ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u1	Minister, a few weeks ago I questioned you in committee about the possibility of consulting detailed maps and other information from military sites via Google Earth, Google Maps and Google Streetview. You have replied to me that such a representation is punishable, according to Article 120ter of the Criminal Code. In addition, you have also announced that you will examine whether legislative initiatives can be taken to protect non-critical military infrastructure. Now it appears that military sites are not only accessible through open source channels, such as Google Earth, Google Maps or Google Streetview, but also through applications offered by AGIV, the Agency for Geographical Information Flanders, such as the GRB, the large reference file. These two matters fall within the competence of your colleague, Minister Homans, at Flemish level. Through the large reference file, anyone who agrees to the conditions of use can obtain detailed information from land, plots and buildings, as well as from different barracks. It goes without saying that this must be handled with caution. Have you been in contact with Google in the meantime, to point out to the company the criminality of making images of military plans available? If so, when? How did Google respond to that? Has it already indicated that it will cooperate and make certain images invisible or blurable? Are you aware that data such as these maps can also be easily searched through applications of the Flemish government? What's your vision on that? Have you been in contact with your Flemish colleague, Mr Homans? If so, what were the findings of the interview on this issue? If not, do you plan consultations in that sense?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u2	Madam Chair, Minister, following the intrusion at Heverlee's base on November 30th, you indicated in committee on December 9th that you had instructed the Defence Staff to contact Google and other websites offering the same type of services to ask them if it was possible to blur images of military quarters, in the name of the security required for this type of facility. You have even made it clear that you have a legal basis to prohibit the dissemination of images of barracks and other military installations, thanks to article 120ter of the Criminal Code, which makes it punishable to take pictures of barracks. You then said: "If Google is not cooperative – but I am told that it cooperates – there is a legal basis for banning images." Minister, almost two months later, my question is simple: has Google been cooperative, as you were considering? If not, do you intend to proceed to the next stage and use the legal means you told us in December to force the American giant to respond to your demands and, therefore, to blur certain military installations? What facilities would be covered? Would it be all Defence bases or only some more strategic sites? Could other sensitive, but not military, areas also be affected by this blurring? I am thinking, for example, of nuclear power plants or embassies. I recall that in 2008 your predecessor, Minister De Crem, had already asked Google, on the one hand, to blur images of cantonments used by the Belgian army during operations abroad and, on the other hand, to offer only images with a resolution of up to 50 cm for a list of 146 military installations in Belgium. What was the end of it? Did Google have access to Belgian requests? Pending your response, I consulted the said search engine and realized that the resolution of several photos of F-16 and other sensitive military equipment was identical to that of other images. This is, for example, the front door of a military facility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u3	Mr Dallemagne, you're almost a pop star.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u4	Madam President, the question is whether these photographs can be distributed. Ms. Hufkens, Mr. Dallemagne, on 11 December 2015, a letter was effectively sent by the staff to both Google Belgium and Google Inc. in the United States requesting that, in accordance with Article 120ter of the Belgian Criminal Code and Google's terms of service, all photographic recordings of military establishments be removed or not reproduced through the services offered by Google. These two firms have shown themselves to be cooperative. In this respect, after a first step was taken by the legal services of the staff, a meeting took place at the level of my cabinet with a representative of Google Belgium. That happened three weeks ago. This is now being continued at technical level, in order to identify the elements that need to be removed from our question and how to do so. I can also tell you that I am aware that other services also offer images. The regional authorities responsible for this matter have also become and will be contacted. In this context, the Legal Service has also sent a letter to the Agency for Geographical Information Flanders, with the same request, and this week there will be a meeting with the National Geographic Institute, which has a good overview of all the images available. It also examines the need for additional actors, as has already been announced. Mr Dallemagne, I will not comment on what my predecessor has done. However, I can confirm that the list of military facilities that are the subject of these requests is classified. The issue of non-military critical infrastructure is not my responsibility, but that of my colleague, the Minister of Security and the Interior, responsible for the Régie des Bâtiments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think it is important that you also write and consult any other bodies that may make plans available. I am convinced that the Flemish level will certainly cooperate in this. I found the question of nuclear power stations somewhat strange, as it is indeed not within your competence. I therefore propose that Mr Dallemagne also address his question to the other ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u6	Minister, I see you're acting. That's good! This is important in this area. These are international or national infrastructures. Here, for example, it is about the entry of NATO, but very interesting details of our frigates in Zeebrugge are also visible. All this is easily available on the internet, and I think it's dangerous. You're doing the right thing. I wish you could tell us when these images will be blurred. You made that announcement two months ago. It is important that at some point we have final information on the blurring of these images. I'll ask you again or we'll talk about it sometimes. I will, in any case, closely follow this important issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u7	Mr. Minister, as of January 2016, visitors to the Royal Army Museum in the Cinquantenaire Park will have to pay entry. The museum remains free for military and veterans, but with an entrance fee of 5 euros for adults and reduction rates of 4 and 2 euros for young people and groups, the museum has to compensate for the savings. Indeed, in recent years, the amount decreased from EUR 3.4 million to EUR 2.7 million. The number of visitors rose in recent years, with an outlier in 2014 following the special exhibition for the First World War. The organisation of the Army Museum was also in a negative way in the interest of the influences with the former director and the maladministration in the run-up to that special exhibition around the First World War. You have ordered two studies: a study at the historical pole of Defence in connection with the policy of military heritage and a study of the operating problems at the KLM by the General Inspection. You expected the results of those studies in September 2015. Following that, you wanted to start the recruitment procedure on the basis of the future vision for the museum and the implementation of the position of director. However, there is still an interim situation with a new management that is still not there. That's been dragging on for a long time. You were hoping to finish that by the end of 2015. Minister, how many visitors did the museum make in 2015? In the meantime, can visitors pay cash? It was said that this was not possible. The 2014-2018 exhibition, for which an external partner was called, was extended until 15 November 2015. What happens to the collection and the exhibition now? What was the outcome of the two studies on the policy of military heritage and on the operational problems of the museum itself? What is the state of play with regard to the recruitment procedure of the new General Director?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u8	Mr Minister, in the preamble, I wanted to say to you that I regret that we were not able to hold a broader debate in the last committee, since Mr Fernandez Fernandez had introduced an inquiry on the same subject to which you had given certain points of answer. So perhaps things will be repeated here, but we have seen developments since then. Minister, last November, I was concerned about the dispersal of the large collection of tanks of the Royal Army Museum between two different poles, namely Bastogne and Brasschaat. I asked you about that. More recently, in mid-January, the press reported on the option, it seems to be currently being discussed, to decentralize part of the Army Museum's heritage into local branches. According to the media, part of the aircraft collection could be transferred to Coxide. It also seems that other sites could be the subject of a concession, as part of a regional tourism development, for example Loncin, Bourg-Léopold or Brasschaat. In any case, this is what Professor De Vos said in the press. Of course, I am pleased that a real reflection is being conducted by the Defence on the future of the Royal Army Museum. I also welcome the announced commitment to the renovation of the Museum, which is in great need of it. Having said that, I think that the reflection on the Museum must be done with a view to maximizing the value of our heritage, as well as the buildings of the Cinquantenaire and their remarkable collections. It must not be done at the expense of Belgian and foreign visitors, many of whom visit the Brussels site of the Cinquantenaire. However, the decentralization of collections across the country does not seem ideal to achieve these objectives. Mr. Minister, could you please provide me with more details on Defence's plans for the future of the Royal Army Museum and its collections? Could you tell me what specific options are being considered for collections to date? Is decentralization retained to date? If so, what collections would be decentralized and to which sites? What are the expected benefits of such an operation, without prejudice to the museum pole in the Brussels Region? Finally, have these guidelines already been discussed in Kern? Has a government mandate been given to move forward in this direction?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u9	Madam President, Minister, I make the same point as my colleague that this debate has been split in two. I hope that, in comparison with the previous debate, we will get additional elements to our questions today. As part of the preparation of your "Memory Plan" on which you are working with a view to achieving a single cross-cutting strategy in this dossier, without the current dispersions and duplications between certain institutions, you have entrusted Professor De Vos with a more specific task of restoring the order of the management of the Belgian military heritage, today in a sad state and in serious lack of resources. At the end of this study, which "runs away" in part in the press, the historian proposes in particular to renovate part of the Royal Museum of the Army at the 50th anniversary so that it can house the best of our rich military collections. But he also notes that, even if renovated, the Royal Army Museum would not be able to accommodate all of these collections and he therefore proposes to develop them in various regional branches. In this context, Professor De Vos proposes to involve cities, provinces, regions and the private sector in the development and management of certain local branches of the Royal Army Museum. It would retain some of these antennas in its own right, while others would be co-managed, such as, for example, the "Bastogne Barracks". Finally, because of a lack of defence resources, others would be completely granted to outside operators in the context of regional tourism policies. These sites are Loncin, Eben-Emael, Brasschaat, Bourg-Léopold and Coxide. Minister, can you formally present the results of this study? What exactly is the fate of the various sites I have just mentioned and, in particular, the "Bastogne Barracks"? Do you intend to follow these recommendations made by this study? When will your "Memory Plan" be officially validated and then implemented? What is your agenda in this file? Should we not fear, in the options described, that this heritage will be partly removed from the national heritage for the benefit of the Regions? I am thinking, for example, of the proposal to transfer the aircraft collections to Coxide into a future aviation recreation park. In view of our duty to remember, is it really wise to put this in a recreational park? What guarantees will we have that the collections displayed in the various Regions will remain in our federal heritage and will not ultimately be granted to either Region? Similarly, by regionalizing or privatising certain major sites of our military heritage, we will not be witnessing regionalization on the one hand and a rather commercial purpose in acquiring certain elements of our heritage rather than a duty of remembrance on the other. Finally, like my colleague, Mr. From Vriendt, mentioned, the Royal Army Museum is now paying for it. Previously, it was free of charge. The signal that was thus sent is not good, as we commemorate the centenary of the First World War and we have just commemorated the 70th anniversary of the end of the Second World War. In my view, it would be desirable to pursue a coherent and more ambitious policy on memory.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u10	Mr Minister, at the committee meeting of 8 July 2015, you said that in September of that year you were expecting two studies on the Army Museum: a study on the policy of military heritage and the outcome of the information mission by the General Inspectorate of Defence in relation to the operational problems in the museum. The first study also includes the new interpretation of the post of general director of the museum. Until this new implementation is established, the administration of the Army Museum is in the hands of an ad interim director. Mr Minister, I would like to see a state of affairs on the basis of the following questions. Have you already received the study on the policy of military heritage? If so, what are the main conclusions on the future vision for the Army Museum? How does the study fill in the function of General Manager? Was the recruitment procedure initiated in the meantime? Did you also receive the second study, the result of the information assignment by the General Inspectorate of Defence? If so, what are the main conclusions of the Inspection? What initiatives will you take in the coming weeks on the basis of the conclusions of both studies?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u11	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will go further than my prepared text in a moment, because I have some news that I would like to share with you. I do this as always for transparency. Soon I may regret it, but so be it. Mr De Vriendt, in 2015 201 177 people visited the site of the Royal Museum of the Army and the Cristian History at the Cinquantenaire Park. The collection pieces of the 14-18 exhibition come from the Army Museum and were either placed back in their original display cases or re-entered into the reserves of the Royal Army Museum. With regard to paying access, electronic payment has been opted for. For the results of the study on the operation of the Army Museum, I would refer the honourable Members to the answer to Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I told her that I had received the study. The AIG study made recommendations in the short, medium and long term. On the basis of the study, I have asked the Director to draw up an ad interim action plan in this area, which has also happened in the meantime. At the time, I told Mrs Cassart-Mailleux that I cannot share that report because it concerns individual personal data. It is not common for this type of confidential information to be widely shared. I can tell you that this is going to continue. I would also like to remove any doubt that the Royal Museum of Army and Military History would be badly managed. Mrs Van Everbroeck is doing a very good job there and I support her in relation to the actions she is taking and the preparations that are being made in the context of what is to follow. As part of the memory and in the maintenance and presentation of Defence's historic heritage, several working groups conducted studies. The proposal was to create a new cross-cutting federal service responsible for the transmission of memory and the management and exploitation of historical heritage. As this proposal is not sufficiently detailed to enable a decision to be taken, a new working group has been established to study the organization, missions, structure, status, staff and means to be provided in this cross-cutting unit. As soon as all the working groups that look into the future of the institutions under my supervision have submitted their findings to me, I will present a comprehensive plan to the government. Finally, I would like to say that the selection procedure for the recruitment of a new director of the Royal Army Museum and Military History can only be started when the government has taken a decision on the future structure and location of the KLM. The preparation for this answer was made for yesterday, but yesterday I sat with all my parastals. I have also received a virtually final proposal from all those within the Defense Department working on commemoration or la mémoire, our heritage heritage heritage, both movable and immovable and intangible. A few things are clear. Professor De Vos gave an interview on the basis of which a lot of questions arose and expressed concern. I want to take some of that away. First, the collection. In every design, the collection belongs to the Defense Department and it remains so at all times. That's important. The aim is to optimise the active and passive conservation of that collection. Another question is to what extent this really interesting collection can be brought to the public, either for study or commemoration as recognition. There are ideas about this, some of which go far beyond what we are dealing with today. Our collection, our heritage is and remains of the Defense Department. However, if we find third parties who would like to do something with the collection, such as that conscious firm did about the collection 14-18 and the exhibition in the Army Museum, where we can offer quality, then that quality can also be paid for. There will also be other initiatives with budgets that may be more controlled. I would also like to point out that, although, in my view, heritage is not a core task for the defence industry, it is a very important task. That is why we are taking our time. Mr Dallemagne, I will not be stuck on a date today, but I can tell you that I am about ready to make a proposal to the government. Since there is so much discussion about this in this committee, you can imagine that other people are also asking questions. As for the building on the Cinquantenaire, I would like to stress that this is not the property of the Defense Department. We need to work with the Buildings Regie. I can confirm that a first step will be taken in the short term to deal with the Bordiau Hall and at least prepare for a permanent collection. I believe that it is the intention to place a collection there in connection with the Second World War with a view to commemorating it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u12	Madam President, Minister, a few years ago I visited the Army Museum. I have been able to see for myself that the potential of that museum is enormous. It houses one of the largest collections in Europe. I hear a number of fellow Members here talking about decentralisation, a division of the collection. Well, I honestly wouldn't do that. In this way, our country, especially Brussels, loses an attraction pool, a top museum. In that collection all facets of the army are highlighted, military heritage and so on. I do believe that we can get a lot more out of that museum than we do now. The number of visitors evolved favourably in 2015 but much more is possible. It must of course be renovated. I agree with you that the current management is doing an ad interim job, but it is, of course, still an interim situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u13	Now we are pretending that the management is doing bad work, but that is not the case either. I just wanted to stress that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u14	It seems to me that it is necessary to shift a gear higher. Some things have been dragging on for a very long time, such as the drafting of the action plan and the recruitment of a final director. When will it finally come of it? We've lost a lot of time. Furthermore, I do not think that the savings in the museum are a good thing either. I don't understand. On the one hand, we need to upgrade the museum, but on the other hand we need to make savings. Of course, it's one thing or another, but combining both is extremely difficult. The fact that the costs are passed on to the visitors, who now have to pay, is not necessarily a bad thing. It might make sense to ask the visitors for access money. But how is it possible that only electronic payments can be made? That may seem like a detail, but a tourist or anyone who happens not to have a bank card and wants to visit the museum simply can't. I call on you, Minister, to at least get rid of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u15	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u16	If we want to make the museum more attractive, we must also be aware of such bizarre situations that are part of the problem. Finally, with regard to private companies and the fact that there may be an initiative coming around the Second World War, I know very well that an exhibition such as we set up around the First World War would have been perfectly possible within the management of the museum itself. We should not have called on an external private company if the management at the time had handled the matter a little better. This may be the time to build up some expertise within the museum itself. So I wouldn't undress it too much, but first find out what the possibilities are in the museum itself. I think you'll be faced with some positive surprises. However, we need speed and decisiveness. After all, the dossier has been dragging on for far too long. I am talking here about the state of the building, about the management of the collection and, of course, about the management and management.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u17	Madam President, Minister, thank you for the information you have provided us. We all agree here to recognize the potential of our collections as well as the importance of presenting them in a harmonious and renovated setting, which the Régie des Bâtiments is aware of. I understand that the Cinquantenaire Pole, which also houses the Museum of Art and History, is one of its priorities. I would like to point out that it is important to consider that pole as a whole. I have taken note of your determination that the collections remain the property of the Defence and, in doing so, of the federal state. We are in no way opposed to making the collections more visible. I am thinking in particular of the exhibits that are currently archived. However, it is essential for us that the most beautiful jewels be visible on the site of the Cinquantenaire, which is the most visited site and whose appeal is most important for the Brussels, but also for the Belgians as a whole. Finally, you referred to the fact that you were about to present a project to the government, but many were the priorities at this time. Can you, however, give us an approximate idea of the date on which this project can be presented so that the government can make a decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u18	Madam Chair, dear colleague, the minister said that he did not want to lock himself in a timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u19	I understand the Minister doesn't want to pin himself down on a certain date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u20	I hear well, and I do not wish to try the minister with intent. I take note of his good faith in this matter. I still note some elements. There is no date; it becomes a rule in you. The strategic plan does not include dates, nor does the Memoir Plan. The legislature is moving forward. I'd like to set a certain timing. If reforms are to be undertaken and to be successful, they must be included in a reasonable time frame in relation to the legislature. We need a small calendar to fix our ideas and know if what you imagine has a chance of success. I think, however, that you are in good faith, but we must find the means and the budgets, and set up the teams. I don't trust good ideas that never end up. I'd like it to come to fruition, if it is a good idea. Secondly, we would not be talking about all this if the Defence really carried out this mission, which you call important, with means commensurate with this importance. We would not wonder what the respective shares of the private sector and the Regions are if the federal government assumed this duty of remembrance. I think this is an extremely important mission. I have sometimes gone to the Army Museum with young people or others to show them the sacrifices of our grandparents and parents, to tell them about what happened at certain times in our history, and to show them what the vital stakes were for our country. It is an essential duty, and it is felt in the political and social context that Belgium is experiencing today. I think this is one of your priorities, Minister. You have not talked about it much: what will be the means devoted to this duty of memory? Will they live up to the stakes? I come to the third element. Here again I assume you in good faith, but I am particularly vigilant on this issue. Under the previous legislature, I had a large majority vote on a resolution on our national collective memory and on war 14-18. And your party was one of the few, along with Vlaams Belang, not to vote on this resolution. What was particularly important in this resolution was to keep this memory at the national level, at the federal level, whether we are from the north, the centre or the south of the country, and that memory remains a common memory. I will pay particular attention to what will happen with regard to this issue, because the past has taught me that your party does not necessarily have a conception of the duty of memory that should remain at the national level. I am attentive to this question and ask that your comments on this matter be followed up, that this memory be kept at the central level and that the means be commensurate with this important duty and challenge.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u21	Minister, I think you are right when you say that peace has now returned. We haven't heard from the Army Museum for a while, which comes from a turbulent period in which the press often made it, not with reputable exhibitions, but with maladministration, suspicions of corruption, fraud and also bullying behaviour. The fact that the museum and the staff really deserve better has been mentioned here. Like my fellow Members, I hope that a strong manager will be in charge. I hope that it can be appointed quickly and can really stand for good governance, with the staff being coached. That director or that powerful manager will be able to solve the problem of cash payments, because I do not think you should deal with this as a minister. I see a possible centralisation at the administrative level. I don't think every local antenna needs its own undoubtedly paid management board. I think we can do it overboard, and I'm looking forward to it. I hope that the plan, once presented to you, will also be implemented with determination.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u22	I notice that the Royal Army Museum is very upset both in the previous and in the present legislature. I therefore asked our committee secretary at the last committee meeting to plan a visit. The museum is nearby and this visit may take place after a committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u23	Debates of the European Parliament 8742 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Mrs Lalieux's 8816 has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u24	Mr Minister, I am asking my question about the defence attachés and the arms trade, because there have been regular discussions over recent weeks and months on arms exports to, for example, the Middle East, Saudi Arabia and the conflict region. At that time, the federal government quickly opened its umbrella and referred to the competence of the regions. My point is that the federal government is indeed partly responsible, especially through the defence attachés. That's why I'm doing my current demarche. I asked you a series of written questions on the file. I now also put this oral question to you, to confront you with the analysis and the results of the written questions. You admit that the defence attachés are clearly the first contacts in our embassies for or between the Belgian arms industry and third countries. The federal government thus plays a role in the creation of contracts and arms deals. The defense attachés are also becoming increasingly active. The number of contacts is increasing. Furthermore, these are countries that are debatable in terms of human rights violations, which are using weapons against their own people and which play a role in today's instability in the Middle East. I am talking about countries like Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Bahrain; you gave the list. How can you justify that your people are involved in these dossiers, even if the regions in our country sometimes refuse to grant arms exports to a country afterwards? What is the legislative framework for the action of the defence attachés in this matter? Do you agree that more coordination is needed? The cooperation agreement on the regionalisation of the arms trade allows for this coordination. There are two options in your hands as competent minister. Either you continue to allow the attachés to take care of the first contacts, even when it comes to countries which are debatable in a number of areas and which I have just outlined, or you will be more restrictive, more watchful and restrict such activities on the basis of a number of criteria that you can observe. What steps will you take? In conclusion, I would like to point out that Belgian weapons are clearly used to incite conflicts, identify innocent civilians and violate human rights. It seems to me that there is a need for consensus at all levels of government, with a great deal of coordination, in order to limit such practices. There have been statements by party chairmen of the majority, who also advocate a revision of arms exports. Minister Reynders has also made a public statement to that effect, although he is not a stricto sensu. However, he is the chief of diplomacy. I'm appealing to you now, the Secretary of Defense. You're involved through the defense attachés. What will you do?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u25	Mr Minister, I will restrict my introduction a little, since Mr De Vriendt has already introduced the subject. I refer to media coverage and to Mr De Vriendt's written question, which shows that the number of contacts between military attachés and interested countries has indeed increased over the last few months. To give just one example, in 2012 there were 2 contacts and last year there were 17. As my colleague said, there are countries in the Middle East that do not always have a good reputation for human rights. One can ask questions about this. Although there is scope for greater coordination and better arrangements with the regions, this is apparently not high on the agenda. Minister, what are the precise tasks of military attachés abroad? How will they be reimbursed for that shipment and for what amounts? In which countries are they currently stationed? Since the military attachés are the first to advise the ambassadors and there are also contacts with the countries with a view to economic agreements, I would like to hear what directives the military attachés are given. How will these directives be followed if necessary? What disciplinary procedures are followed if someone colors outside the lines? Finally, with which countries did the military attachés conclude contracts last year?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u26	Madam President, before I reply, allow me to express my dissatisfaction with the tendentious nature of the titles of the questions. The questions have been raised on the basis of a number of written questions put by Mr De Vriendt. He has also succeeded in bringing them into the media. He has drawn a number of conclusions in a non-negotiable manner that we have never confirmed, but that is of course his right. Next, claiming that our defense attachés are involved in questionable cases, I find quite punishment. The task of a defence attaché is to represent the Minister of Defence and the Chief of Defence in the countries for which he is accredited. He is also a military adviser to the Belgian ambassadors of those countries. The Vienna Convention of 18 April 1961 lays down the legal framework within which defence attachés operate. They are also bound by an internal regulation allowing them, under the control of their ambassador, to act as intermediaries for contacts with the selected arms industry. In doing so, they may provide information and forward requests, without in any way intervening in the trade agreements. Therefore, they are in no way an interested party in possible trade agreements between different parties. The role of the defence attachés is limited to establishing initial contacts only at the request of companies. If a company contacts the embassy to establish contacts, the defense attaché can play a role in this. They always take a neutral view. As far as their remuneration is concerned, defence attachés shall be reimbursed in accordance with the same rules as foreign diplomatic staff. I will have the various sites and accreditations of the various defence attachés attached to the report. I don't think there's much point in me reading a list here. The defense attaché, he or she, works on the basis of a vademecum with internal guidelines. These directives are of an administrative and financial nature and are intended to manage the functioning of the postal service. The Defence Attaché is controlled by its military authorities, which are the General Intelligence and Security Service, by the Defence Staff and by the Defence Internal Audit Cell. He is subject to normal, universal law and military disciplinary legislation. I would like to repeat once again that there is no defence attaché who has signed a contract anywhere. The defense attachés are providing information. That is precisely what they are responsible for.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u27	Minister, of course, defence attachés do not sign contracts. No one's said that here. The contract is concluded with a country or customer, such as Saudi Arabia, Qatar or Bahrain and with other countries on your list.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u28	Also with Germany, (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u29	We're not talking about those countries. I am talking about countries that play a very dubious role, violate human rights and cause instability in the region. The contract is concluded between such countries and our arms industry. It is very interesting for our arms companies to have a defence attaché in such a country to which they can rely, in order to establish initial contact. You admit that, too. You are literally replying that this is the job of a defence attaché. That's what those attachés do. In recent years there have been 35 such contacts. These are contacts with Saudi Arabia in February 2015 and Pakistan in February 2012. Let me list them: with the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Oman, Kuwait and Qatar. Minister, is it not normal for the government and you, in your capacity as Minister of Defence, to facilitate such arms deals with such countries? When will we finally realise that such deals are not in our interest because they increase insecurity in the world and undermine our human rights standards and values? Nevertheless, we facilitate such arms deals and are the first point of contact for them. That's unbelievable. Across the party boundaries of opposition and majority, a consensus is slowly growing on the fact that arms exports to and arms deals with such countries are not a good idea. We have a number of small policy instruments in our hands. The regions of Wallonia and Flanders are in the hands of many more such instruments. The federal level also has small policy instruments in its hands. Use them. Stop those deals. You can do that. My question is to discuss this cessation within your government, so that, within your majority, there is a consensus that the defence attachés are screening and making a first exercise of the kind of countries with which they may or may not yet cooperate. We need a black list of countries to which we no longer export arms. The federal level has little competence in this area, but please use the competences we have.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u30	Mr De Vriendt, it is up to a defense attaché to represent myself, as Minister of Defence, or the CHOD, as well as to pass on information. Why else can we simply stop sending defence attachés? Because we could have military interests or security interests in a number of countries. That is why we are also focusing, with a number of defence attachés, on those countries where there may be security risks. Those people are there, being addressed and passing on information. It just stops there. You make it appear that we would send our defense attachés to actively lobby to sell weapons abroad. That is not the case at all. They're at the embassy. There's gonna be a demand and they're gonna meet that demand. Period.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u31	That is of course not the end of the discussion. I am not arguing for the cessation of defence attachés. They are useful, to perform a security analysis in a particular country, to assist you or to assist the ambassador. These are all very useful things, but I quote you literally in your reply to my written question No. 285: "The Defence Attaché is a contact person for the Belgian defence industry." To my question No. 395 answered you: "The defense attaché is the initial contact point for contacts between the Belgian defence industry and the military government of the host country." The following answer was also given to my question No. 285: The defence attaché can play a coordinating role between the Belgian defence industry and the country in which he is accredited. So he facilitates...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u32	How many contacts have there been in 2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u33	In the last five years there have been 35 contacts, including with countries such as Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and Pakistan, which have also led to contracts. Mr. Secretary, we can't do that anymore. Facilitating arms deals to such countries must stop. I would therefore like to ask something on which there is a consensus across party boundaries. Please look at that in peace and serenity, away from the political debate. Discuss this with your fellow government members and use the levers you have.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u34	In your introduction, Minister, you said that you had problems with the question. I also have a problem, but with the answer. The question literally said "dubious contracts'. I'll stick with that. As Mr De Vriendt said earlier, I have no problem with the military attachés in those countries carrying out a security analysis and advising the ambassadors. This is not a problem, not even in other countries with which we work on a regular basis and have good agreements. However, we have just heard Mr De Vriendt reading a list of countries from the Middle East and Pakistan. You were talking about the post office box. In previous answers, you mentioned a coordinating role. It raises questions that an official or a representative of the Belgian military government, namely those military attachés, even in their role of mailbox to receive and pass messages, play a role as the first contact with those countries for a possible delivery or an agreement. There are questions to ask. There has been no answer to the question, which Mr De Vriendt also referred to, in order to reflect on it and to organise it in such a way that, in cooperation with the regions of the island, these countries are being vetted, even though there is only a post office box. For those countries and for the suppliers, someone who represents a government always enjoys prestige. This indicates more than just playing a mailbox and, as you said yourself, rather coordination. I would argue that we should consult across party boundaries and with the region's neighbours in order to examine in advance with which countries something can be agreed. If a black list is drawn up with countries that do not comply, then we must stick to it and there can be no question of attachés being able to play mailbox there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u35	Mr Top, you will have the floor again for your question about the disagreement within the federal government about the strategic plan. That seems like another tendentious title.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u36	This raises good points, Madam President, because these questions are raised. Mr Minister, if that title is tendentious, it is in the wake of the committee meeting in which you proposed the long-awaited strategic plan for defence. A number of decisions were apparently taken by the Council of Ministers on 22 December. For example, in the coming years, Defence would invest EUR 9.2 billion. My question is now referred to as tendentiously, but some Members, including the majority, had similar questions. I am thinking of the reactions of the President of the Open Vld, Mrs Rutten, who apparently was no longer able to follow, and of CD&V President Wouter Beke, who was apparently surprised by your plans. According to a number of press channels, you have put a lot of pressure on yourself with the proposal of the anti-missile system, as it appears that there was no agreement within the government. At the Council of Ministers, only the chalk lines and a list of major investments were discussed until 2030, and that political compromise apparently did not include an anti-missile system. However, it is not a small investment, because it concerns 600 million euros of purchase price plus annual maintenance costs. Moreover, the system would have become obsolete in the meantime. The countries surrounding us would already have an anti-missile system to protect themselves from any Russian threat. That is why, Minister, I would like a correct answer to the following very specific questions. What investments were approved by the government? In which bodies exactly were these decisions taken? Can you deliver the part of the strategic plan on which the government fully agrees to the members of the committee? Are you aware that the Patriotic missiles would have become obsolete in the meantime, or at least the system behind them, and that several countries had these missiles replaced by the MEADS system for that reason? If so, why do you propose to invest in Patriotic missiles? Finally, have you received a request from NATO to invest in such a missile system?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u37	Madam Chair, Minister, I could have called my question: "Awesome ambiance to the government around the Defence Strategic Plan." I'm still going to present the retroacts. On January 13, 2015, you presented what you call a Strategic Plan, approved by Kern on December 22, 2015. You even spoke of a "historical decision" and a "new and hopeful perspective" for our armed forces. Yet we can only see that very few parties in your majority share your enthusiasm or even really support you. My colleague has taken up some quotations which show that there is, even in the head of some of the most important personalities of your majority, a rejection of some of the elements of your proposal for a Strategic Plan – I no longer know very well what to call it. On the evening of your presentation in the Defence Committee, the President of the Open Vld, Mrs Rutten, said that she "does not know how to follow up" your requests. Then, the next day, 14 January, Mr. Beke, president of the CD&V, said he was "very surprised" by your proposal to acquire a Patriot missile battery, even saying that "it had not been discussed at any time in the majority"; he therefore considered that "it was not on the agenda". Finally, on Friday 15 January, to finish the week in beauty – it's still quite a Patriot missile shot – Deputy Prime Minister M. De Croo openly criticized your proposal to acquire these Patriot anti-missile missiles, calling it "an idiotic idea." Specifically, while he was being asked about the budget path to bring the federal budget back to balance by 2018, Mr. De Croo called the various parties of the majority "to do their job" – as if you were not doing yours. "If no one comes with stupid ideas, like saying 'we have to save, but we're also going to buy Patriot missiles, we'll get there. We'll get away with it if no one talks about idioties and we do what's agreed." He still insists heavily. What can the opposition say after such a salve? I don't have such large calibers as those sent to you by your own majority. Minister, how do you react to these different criticisms? What is the status of your Strategic Plan today? Is it still there? What parts of this Strategic Plan will you be able to save? How do you justify the possible purchase of these six missile launchers, which I would remind you of the cost of EUR 588 million? Should this proposal now be considered dead and buried? What does this mean for the other investments planned as part of your Strategic Plan proposal? More broadly, what about this Strategic Plan? I heard many criticisms from members of the majority? What about all these announcements and communication around an awakened dream and not around a real strategic plan? When will this government move from words to deeds and honour its commitments, repeatedly renewed and repeatedly postponed in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u38	The strategic plan includes investments for the future of Belgian Defence until 2030. The necessary decisions were taken on 22 December 2015. As I said in the presentation to the committee, each investment dossier will follow the normal procedure, with the final decision and approval by the government. So no one has to worry. The decision of 22 December 2015 and the capacities mentioned therein were already clearly communicated. As I have already indicated, a possible participation in the Ballistic Missile Defence (BMD) capability will be considered. You will recall that no one challenged this option that I presented as such in full transparency. I had pointed out that the BMD system could have involved the Earth Component and explained that a study would be carried out to determine our choice between a small radar device, which costs 50 million, and the Full-Monty, which is worth 600 million. At this stage, this study has no other purpose than to determine the feasibility of such an initiative. We are therefore in a purely exploratory phase. The final composition of the BMD capacity will depend on the government's decision and the systems that will be available once this capacity has been established. Thank you, Mr Top, for sharing with us your knowledge of specific weapons systems. We are talking about a general system composed by different countries, the so-called BMD system. I said BMD is like Patriots. I didn't say we'd buy Patriots.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u39	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u40	I wanted to make it clear what BMD means, for example Patriots. You also saw that I would have chosen a particular type of plane, so it doesn't matter that much. That wasn't on the slides either. NATO asks each Member State to contribute in solidarity to the necessary capacity portfolio for carrying out the organisation's tasks. Ballistic missile defense is an important capacity built multilaterally. All Member States are asked to contribute to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u41	Mr Minister, I have actually received very few answers to my questions about what has been decided and where has been decided. If I assume for truth that everything on the PowerPoint, which was presented in committee, has been approved, then you have to pay attention for one thing. You're surprised at my comments about the latest generation of fighter planes. Of all the types in the survey only one type meets that name. I'm sticking with it. That's not your choice, it's the government's choice, just to be clear. According to specialists, the other fighter planes do not belong to the newest generation. So the government has already made a choice. The other coalition partners must draw their conclusions from this. I agree, of course, that you will deal with all the investment files separately. They cannot be put into one single decision and must go through the procedures. What surprises me much more, however, is your announcement of the anti-missile system. Maybe your coalition partners didn't listen carefully or follow the talks at government level. Apparently, the announcement of the anti-missile system was made on your initiative, without consultation in the majority. It did say that the anti-missile system was being studied, but I find it odd that the Minister of Defence is announcing something in committee, while no other majority party is apparently aware of this. I wonder if that was a master stroke of yours. Did you decide that alone? What were your considerations about this? Finally, perhaps I have not listened carefully, but is the demand to invest in such a rocket system, whether or not it comes from NATO? I didn't get that answer, or I didn't hear it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u42	You're asking additional questions. I'll answer your additional questions. It was, of course, a master stroke of mine, Mr Top. I think I'm free as a minister to study matters, don't I? You ask me to be transparent, in committee. I'm offering you transparency. I say that we will continue to study the missile system, this is an option that we can light, but which has not yet been lighted at all. No decision has been taken on this. Nor is it something that needs to be decided next year. Let's get that straight. As far as your question on NATO is concerned, I have made it quite clear that I asked for the system to be examined. I'm Secretary of Defense. I ask questions to my staff and I get answers to them. I have also made it very clear that ballistic missile defense is an important capacity, which is being built multilaterally. All Member States are asked to contribute to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u43	I find it surprising that the question appears to be from you. When we talk about investments, do you say that they take place in consultation with the other Member States, but now, apparently, the question comes from you? Apparently, it's on your initiative that that's being investigated? I find it surprising that the question does not come from the partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u44	NATO is asking all Member States to cooperate in the ballistic-missile system, which is being built multilaterally. I asked my staff: what can we do? In our committee, I said that lighting up that option would mean taking a big bite out of our total budget of EUR 1.2 billion, given the share that our country would have in it. This will therefore have to be the subject of a serious debate. Isn't that how I told you on the committee? Or was I on a committee other than you?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u45	Minister, thank you for your answers, even if you have not answered all my questions. As far as the Ballistic Missile Defence is concerned, I understand that you intend to carry out a study for a project called an "idiot" by a prominent member of your government. I'd like to know how much money you're going to invest in a stillborn project for which your option is to provide $588 million. Is it really opportune to invest in an expensive study for a project called "idiot" by one member of your government and "untimely" by another? I pass you the qualifiers and the names of birds that you heard when you talked about that. Does this still make sense? Personally, I would not conduct a study on a stillborn project that your coalition does not want. At the same time, it is not easy to understand where we are in this strategic plan. I have noted that each investment case will be the subject of a separate decision. This is contrary to the idea of an investment plan. Instead of having an investment plan, we have a menu and choose a dish from this menu. It's not an investment plan! I no longer understand what is being decided and what is being optiond! It's not clear at all! I ask you to tell me what is really the subject of a budget decision endorsed by the government. Today, I hear that there is absolutely nothing but a list of menus. I understand that as Minister of Defence, you set the best list possible. When you write to Saint Nicholas, you make a long list but you wonder what Saint Nicolas will put in his hood in the end! I'm asking myself this question. Today, it is not clear on our side. It's time we knew what's going on with this strategic plan and what you really got from the government in terms of investment decisions. You need to get back here quickly with a real investment plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u46	Mrs Gerkens is not here. Her question No. 8877 is hereby repealed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u47	Madam President, Mr Dallemagne, the Leopold 1er campaign can be considered a complete success. A few days after the decision to participate in the escort of Charles de Gaulle, Leopold 1er was already part of the escort group. Following the Paris attacks, the initial training and integration programme was replaced by a rapid deployment to the eastern Mediterranean. The speed of this deployment and the integration into an international aerospace group demonstrates the interoperability, quality and flexibility of our frigates. The engagement of the on-board helicopter was also highly appreciated. The Belgian Alouette III was the first foreign helicopter qualified and used as a rescue helicopter during landing and take-off operations of the Charles de Gaulle. La Défense was informed at all times of French operations thanks to the presence of liaison officers both aboard the Charles de Gaulle and at the staff in Paris. The Leopold 1er was integrated for 48 days into the aircraft group, including 41 days at sea, demonstrating the reliability of our frigate. The breakdowns were few and quickly rectified. It should be noted that our frigates are supported by the Dutch Navy and that the binationalization of support is an asset during operational missions. The main mission of Leopold 1 was the close protection of Charles de Gaulle. The passages of the straits with terrorist threats have also demonstrated the value of a frigate as an escort for an aircraft carrier. The commitment of Leopold 1 has therefore demonstrated the added value of having multifunctional and flexible frigates that can detect and act in the three dimensions, i.e. aerial, underwater and surface. The French evaluation of our participation in this operation was very positive. My colleague sent me a letter to do so. As for an extension of the operations against Daesh in Syria, the Belgian government will decide in due course on a possible military participation. As I have already said a thousand times, there is no question of working over Syria today. So we are not going to launch a discussion that is not currently on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u48	Minister, speaking of "thousand times," you may be exaggerating! But I answer to you that we are committed to Syria, Minister. When we protect planes that are going to hit Syria, it is because we are engaged in this country. When we accompany a Charles de Gaulle who strikes in Syria, we are engaged in Syria. We cannot say the opposite. You have also indicated that the American question will come on the F-16 engagement in Syria. I think the question is all the more so as the Dutch F-16s are engaged in Syria. I would prefer to have a calm, normal and timely discussion on this issue, with a view to supervising and supporting the armed forces. I am not at all opposed to this intervention. I think our position is totally hypocritical. We know that the Islamic State is based in Iraq and Syria and that if we strike it only in Iraq, it will retreat to Syria. The next important battle to try to reduce the nuisance capacity of the Islamic State is the battle of Raqqa. She's in preparation. Our position is therefore unclear, inconsistent and relatively hypocritical. I would prefer it to be clear and consistent and to look at the political parameters, the objectives we have set ourselves rather than pretending not to be committed there. For the rest, I welcome the success of our frigate. This confirms the importance of having inter-operational and multi-functional frigates. I hope you will win over these issues in the strategic plan because this is extremely important for the future of Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u49	Madam Chair, I must confess that I rarely comment on the statements of a union representative. However, I had been a little surprised – the word is weak – by the statements he had made about the presence of women in combat positions in the Defence. I quote: "Women in the front line in the army are pure fantasy, and therefore opening combat posts to women is a false debate". He continued: "Nothing prevents women from presenting exams and succeeding in becoming a special force, paratrooper or combat diver, but there are no women who do. It's kind of like asking a blind man to pass his driver's license." In support of his remarks, he said that there were currently no female combatants in Belgium, on the front line, on the ground, with a rifle or driving a tank. He added that there were no women paratroopers either. Minister, do you confirm this information about the number of women in combat units, on the ground, in tanks and paratroopers? What exactly is the situation in Defence today? What is the gender ratio for each of these occupations? What do you think of the remarks made by this representative of a major military union? For me, they are not acceptable in 2016. Such a speech can only be described as sexist and macho. This speech is lagging behind the evolution of our societies and the place of women in them. I wish to testify that, on the ground, I have been able to see in many countries women on the front line to defend their country, their security and their people. I've been to Syria and Iraq several times and I've seen some women fight. I have seen them in the front line and can testify to their determination, courage and willingness to defend their people. I would like to have an answer to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u50	Mr Dallemagne, the secretary-general and spokesman of the socialist union, like any individual, has the right to freedom of opinion and expression. Nevertheless, the Defence Staff intervened with the complainant to express his dissatisfaction with the statement made. As of January 26, 2016, there are 7.72% female military personnel in Defence. As far as the field system is concerned, there are almost 2 per cent of women. But it should be noted that there are no para-commando women or divers. In my view, the most important point is to know what is being done in this area. Pursuant to UN Security Council Resolution 1325, a Defence Action Plan 2013-2016 is implemented. This plan contains some 40 actions at various levels in areas such as training, communication, gender awareness within the organisation or recruitment. In addition, Defence is a member of the Gendermainstreaming Interdepartmental Committee and is committed to gender mainstreaming in planning and participation in missions abroad. Finally, you should know that the Defence has a policy of strict equality between men and women. Thus, all positions are open to both men and women, but it is a fact that women apply less for positions that are qualified as combatants. This is probably due to the fact that the exercise of this type of function has a significant impact on the balance between private and professional life and that the living conditions in this type of function are physically more demanding and rather rudimentary. These are assumptions that will be examined in order to discover the real reasons for this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u51	Minister, I am pleased that you have reacted to this from another time. I believe that the prejudices about women's ability to carry out all the missions that men carry out must be overcome. I've had the opportunity to see female combatants in many countries. I come from Syria in particular, where I have seen Kurdish women and women of Christian militias. They're in front line combat. I can tell you that they're pretty impressive and you don't have to be faced with them. They are extremely determined in their struggle. I think it's prejudice. Every effort must be made to ensure that women who wish to do so can carry out defence missions that are useful to the country, whatever their danger or physical commitment they require. These women are absolutely capable of doing so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u52	Minister, the international coalition against Daesh has been operating in Iraq and Syria since August 2014, a year and a half ago. It can therefore be seen today that this military intervention allowed initially to put an end to the rapid expansion of Daesh, since Baghdad and Arbil in northern Iraq were not taken, and then to initiate a series of counter-offensives, notably by supporting at air level the various forces, in particular Kurdish and Iraqi, that are fighting on the ground against Daesh (resumption of Kobane (Syria) in January 2015, resumption of Tikrit (Iraq) in March 2015, resumption of Sinjar (Iraq) in November 2015, resumption of Ramadi (Iraq) in late December 2015). According to the coalition staff, as of 5 January 2016, the IS had lost one third of the territory it controlled in Iraq and Syria. Of course, I am delighted with this half-success. However, this container strategy through air support (which most participating countries initially limited to Iraq) has also shown its limitations. Indeed, for his part, Daesh is playing with the borders and consolidating his base in Syria, from which he develops his military actions in the region and his terrorist operations abroad. It is for this reason that I have recently tabled a motion for a resolution to clarify and regulate politically the legitimate extension of our military operations in Iraq to Syria. I am asking you again about this question, but you have already answered me in part. Mr Minister, in view of the situation on the ground and the latest developments I have just mentioned, can you give me an overview of the coalition operations (of which Belgium is a member) in Iraq and Syria? Based on the objectives we set ourselves in 2014 (both diplomatic and military, in Iraq and Syria), what is your assessment of the actions of the coalition (and Belgium) after a year and a half of intervention? What are the successes achieved, but also the difficulties encountered? What are the options being explored today to speed up the search for a solution, on the one hand, political and, on the other, military? I'm back from Syria and Iraq. The Kurds say they are ready to lead the offensive against Mosul and Raqqa. These are two major IS capitals, but these battles must be conducted in a coordinated manner. Today, however, there is a feeling that things have become particularly complex on the ground, and recent developments are not encouraging optimism. What could be the role of the international coalition? How do you see these future developments, both politically and militarily?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u53	Mr Dallemagne, in view of the sensitivity and confidentiality of the information requested, I refer you to the Monitoring Committee for Military Operations Abroad, which meets in camera.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u54	Minister, although I read and read my question again, I do not see what prevents you from answering me publicly. The people and parliament have the right to know your overall assessment of military operations in Iraq and Syria. We have the right to know how you appreciate their developments. I do not ask you to tell us which targets have been hit, but to provide us with a public assessment. I do not accept that you refer me to a committee of which I am not a member. As a parliamentarian, I have the right to know your appreciation of developments in Iraq and Syria and to know what the limits and difficulties are. You have the opportunity to speak publicly and politically on these issues. What is this answer? That doesn't make any sense! You have to regroup to the extent that these matters are of public policy. They therefore require a public response. If this committee is only to be used to avoid any public debate on issues vital to national and international security, I find this totally unacceptable. The purpose of the Monitoring Committee on Military Operations Abroad is to provide information that could endanger the safety of our troops. It's no use!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u55	Mr President, Minister, I'm not going to talk about Patriot missiles because, given the budgetary state of your department, I think we have to stay modest. I will therefore be interested in the very base of military equipment, namely the bulletproof vest. Indeed, as a follow-up to the press article mentioned in one of my previous questions, there was also talk of the recent difficulties experienced by the Earth component in terms of equipment, mainly bulletproof vests. On February 25, 2015, I was already asking you about this issue and you told me that vest acquisitions were planned and that you guaranteed me that every member on the street had a bulletproof vest at his disposal. Minister, have any acquisitions been made in this period of time? Can you assure me that today all of our deployed members have at their disposal said vest?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u56	Mr. Pirlot, all soldiers deployed on the streets have a bulletproof vest at their disposal. At no time were soldiers deployed on the street without bulletproof vests. A procedure is under way to acquire additional bulletproof vests. We have now slightly reduced the number of soldiers on the street, which means that there are enough bulletproof vests for now. I can also confirm that companies that produce bulletproof vests are busy at the moment due to a significant demand.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u57	Minister, thank you for your answer. I was afraid that you would refer me to the Foreign Missions Monitoring Committee or the Military Procurement Committee. I congratulate you, Minister. We are making progress and we can therefore hope that by 2030 we will finally have complete basic equipment: bulletproof vests, gourds and light weapons.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u58	Minister, some time ago the Dutch House of Representatives decided to also bomb Daesh in Syria. The Netherlands and Belgium have long had a turn-roll system to bomb in Iraq. These F-16s are departing from an air base in Jordan. Our country will take over for another year in the turn rolling system from 1 July 2016. You did not rule out some time ago that the Belgian army would also operate in Syria. The Prime Minister said that a decision on this matter would be communicated to the Chamber. There is currently no mandate to bomb in Syria. Minister, have you had contact with your Dutch colleague about the extension of the operation to Syria? Did you yourself get a question from your Dutch colleague or from other partners in the coalition of the willing to extend our operation to Syria from 1 July 2016? What commitments do our country have to comply with the decision taken by the Netherlands on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u59	Madam President, Minister, we have indeed learned that the Netherlands will participate in the air strikes in Syria against Daesh, as announced on 29 January by the Dutch Ministry of Defence, thus responding positively to a request from Washington and Paris. Since Belgium will take over the Netherlands in the summer of 2016 as part of the Desert Falcon operation in Jordan, I would like to ask you the following questions. Has Belgium received, at this stage, a similar request from the international coalition to carry out air strikes in Syria against Daesh? If so, what is the government's position on this and what framework and timetable? Will the decision of the Netherlands to carry out such strikes have an impact on our mission which will resume in summer 2016, and on the current mission, or do you consider them to be two totally independent elements? Indeed, if there were an impact, we would clearly come out of the precise territorial framework set out in the resolution adopted by the House. Will the government then decide to request the vote on another resolution in the House? Minister, thank you very much for your answers, because I know your concern for transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u60	Madam President, Mr Top, Mr Pirlot, pour la 1001e fois, we have not received an official request today to extend our operation to Syria, either from the Netherlands or from any other country. If you ask for my appreciation, I believe that question will come. I think that will be discussed soon. Mr Top, have I been in contact with the Netherlands? Yes, I was aware that the Netherlands would do this. It is up to the government of each country to decide independently on the extent and nature of the contribution to the coalition's efforts. This means that the decision of the Netherlands does not have any binding consequences for us. It'll be our own decision. I have already said in the media that it is clear to me that, according to the Constitution, it is the government that decides on participation. The resolution was tabled in Parliament at the time in order to have broad support so that the government did not have to decide on this operation alone in current cases. That seemed obvious to me at the time. Since we are active under that resolution, the mandate is actually being given today. Besides, not on July 1st, because then it'll just be the government saying we're going. That is the mandate and it also needs a debate in Parliament. However, I would like to make it quite clear once again that the Constitution determines the way in which participation in operations is decided. Am I prepared to hold a debate on this in the Chamber? Of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u61	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I am pleased to hear you say that the decision will also be submitted to the Chamber so that we can discuss it in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u62	I said it would be the government that will decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u63	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u64	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fernandez Fernandez 9033 lapses because she was linked to the questions in item 2 on our agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u65	Madam President, Minister, the European March of Remembrance and Friendship (MESA) will not escape, as last year, the budget cuts made within your department. I was already asking you about this one a year ago and you told me that you were going to keep, as part of the duty of memory, Remembrance Day and the tributes to the various monuments during the week. In addition, an evaluation was planned by the end of last year to determine future developments. It is in this context that I learned from the press that the army would find it more and more difficult to make available to the military and buses for the transport of walkers and above all that the budget of 50,000 euros allocated in 2015 will probably be planed again from 5 to 10 per cent. The number of military personnel will also be reduced by 250 instead of 300. You who indicate to me that you want to maintain the Army-Nation ties, admit that we seem far from the point of view. In the name of the importance of the memory work, the competence of your department, this new budget reduction seems paradoxical as this march is increasingly successful. It should also be remembered that this march was born in memory of the Ardennais Hunters who fought and resisted in May 1940. Minister, what were the conclusions of the evaluation that you were talking about a year ago? When will you be able to communicate to the organizers the defence budget allocated to MESA in 2016? If this budget is down again for 2016, will this decrease be recurring in the future? Is this funding from your department likely to disappear in the near future? Is this decision not harmful and paradoxical with regard to the maintenance of the Army-Nation ties and in terms of memory? What impact could a potential budget reduction have on the scale of this event in 2016, both in terms of memory and logistics, the price for participants, the number of walkers or its international reputation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u66	Mr Pirlot, the final defence budget allocated to MESA for 2016 has not yet been set, nor has it been set for other major events. The staff will finalize the file and the evaluation of the year 2015 will be part of it. On the basis of the elements available to me, despite what you call budget cuts, the 2015 MESA was a success. It has brought together nearly 10,000 walkers, a figure very close to the average of the last five years. The duty of remembrance was honoured to the same extent as in previous editions by the organization of Remembrance Day, which precedes the four days of walking, and by commemorative ceremonies at several monuments to the dead in the entities crossed by the walkers. As I said about a year ago, in answer to your question, it was the budgetary reality that forced us to take action. Through rationalization, improved efficiency and increased support from the civilian world, we have been able to achieve a result that is no less than that of previous years. If the evaluation shows that further rationalization is possible, I will not hesitate to do so. However, the organisation of MESA remains guaranteed. Moreover, the participation rate in 2016 is expected to be positively influenced by the fact that this is the fiftieth edition of the march since its creation in 1967.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u67	Minister, thank you for your answer. Having said that, I do not share the idyllic picture you have just painted. I regret that, in the face of the drastic reduction in its budget, the MESA is now forced to consider the creation of an ASBL and that the ten municipalities that will be members of it will each have to pay several thousand euros to ensure its continuation. Finally, this corresponds to your willingness to charge the communes for such important elements as the duty of memory and assistance to the Nation. This also corresponds to a budgetary technique increasingly used by the federal government that makes decisions and defers the financial burden on the municipalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u68	Madam President, Minister, it seems that due to problems in developing the software for the F-35, the timing of this development is being put at risk again. In a note dated 11 December 2015, Michael Gilmore, American director, stated that the official planning of technological development would not be realistic. The director pointed out that more tests are needed. Nor is it the first time F-35 has had problems with development. In 2015, it appeared that the gun, one of the most important weapons on board, is not working despite the fact that it has been working on the aircraft for seven years and despite development costs of more than 700 billion euros. In the meantime, the Pentagon held that there is too much to mention that the 2017 deadline is not in jeopardy. Now, however, it appears that this timing is not a realistic estimate. That is why I would like to have an answer to the following questions, since you do not believe that a decision has yet been taken. What is your assessment of the reports on the difficulties in developing the F-35? Our country does not stick to the strict deadline of 2017. Nevertheless, the large number of problems raises a number of questions. A large amount of test points would not be carried out to combat the deadline problems, which, of course, is at the expense of safety. Is there sufficient attention given by the Defense Department to this problem? Finally, the backlog is increasing. Do you think that this growing delay could cause problems if Belgium opted for the F-35?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u69	Madam President, Minister, as Mr. Top said, according to a report from the Director of Operational Test and Evaluation (DOT&E), the department of the U.S. Department of Defense responsible for monitoring industrial weapons programs, there are still significant difficulties in implementing the Lockheed Martin new fighter-bomber program. For example, the US Air Force notes that the aircraft does not meet the minimum requirements. The U.S. Air Force would be unable to declare its first F-35 operational by the end of 2016, as planned. More seriously, the same report points out that the first ten aircraft delivered and approved this summer by the elite Marine Corps would not be capable of combat. These F-35s, known as Bs, because they are capable of taking off and landing vertically, can only carry part of the planned weaponry – which is rather annoying for bombers – and their guns would only be operational within a few years. In addition, there are serious considerations regarding the deficiency of the computer system installed on board the 170 devices already constructed: it is referred to as ambiguity in the display of threats and a bug on the data fusion software, whereas this is, it seems, the primary advantage of this fighter-bombarder over others. Thus, the F-35 would be unable to fly in formation or operate some of its sensors. The DOT&E report also points to a high risk of injury, or even beheading, in the event of an emergency ejection of the pilot. This is why it is at this stage forbidden for the lightest pilots to take control of the test aircraft. The report also tells us a little more about the state of expenditure already made by Lockheed Martin under this programme. So far, there are 163 million dollars to be spent on each device! Minister, given the accumulation of the worrying technical blunders and the financial slippages of the F-35 Lightning II program, is Defence considering removing this device from the list of five competitors in the succession of the Belgian F-16? From the perspective of this market, has a technical watch to identify the difficulties encountered by the five programs – not just the F-35 program – currently selected been planned within Defence? Does Defence intend to equip itself with aircraft for take-off and vertical landing – those that are beheading pilots at this time? Could this vertical take-off and landing function appear in the future specifications being drafted?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u70	Mr Top, Mr Hellings, you may be surprised, but the Belgian army does not have F-35 aircraft. As far as I know, we do not have any F-35 aircraft in order. So I do not see to what extent I should answer your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u71	Mr Hellings, your colleague has already left. He didn't get an answer to his questions either. Minister, in your strategic plan you are talking about making a decision on the replacement of the F-16s by 2017 or earlier; I do not know exactly what the date is. I'm not just quoting from the strategic plan. Since the submission of the question and its examination in this committee, I have been able to hand you a number of articles which raise doubts about the further development of the F-35 and the problems with these devices. You claim that the Council of Ministers has not yet taken a decision on a particular type. The F-35 is one of the five devices that are preferred today. If there is so much doubt about the F-35, I wonder if that will not cause problems when you have to make a decision. If you choose the F-35, a device with so many problems that may not be resolved by that date, it will affect the safety of the pilots as well as the people in the area, as well as the timing of the further development of the aircraft and its delivery. Finally, costs continue to rise due to all kinds of problems and further investigations, on the one hand, and because other countries have now or in a recent past decided not to continue with the F-35s, on the other. I am left with the question of what you will do if you have to decide on the replacement of the F-16.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u72	Mr Top, I suggest that you ask that question when the state agencies come to visit.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u73	Minister, thank you for this short answer. As you know, hunter-bombers are not the cup of tea of ecologists, both from a strategic and budgetary point of view. The F-35 is not part of the Belgian equipment available to Defence today. Nevertheless, it is on the list of five competitors. As such, and taking into account the systematic shortcomings of the F-35 program, you can at least tell us if it can be kept on the list of five potential competitors. To that question, you could have answered. I also asked you a very concrete question as to whether the Defence needs an aircraft that takes off vertically and lands vertically. There, too, I didn't get an answer. It could be a Rafale, a Gripen or another plane rather than the F-35. Finally, the fact that the F-35 is still on the list of potential competitors for the replacement of the F-16 and that you do not seem to want to remove it, prompts me to think two things. On the one hand, we need a budgetary watch. To this end, together with a few colleagues, we have tabled a motion for a resolution to put the Court of Auditors in the cockpit of the F-16 replacement programme. In fact, budgetaryly, some programs, including the F-35, are extremely expensive, i.e. $163 million per aircraft. On the other hand, it will also be necessary, in the cockpit, for technicians to check that the programmes that Belgium will be setting up in the future – I repeat that this is not our cup of tea – are being seriously followed and that our pilots are not being scratched or beheaded in the future fighter plane.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u74	Madam President, Minister, I recently learned from the press that Turkey and Germany were going to ask NATO for help to better fight along the Turkish coast against smugglers and illegal immigration to Europe. The German Chancellor did not specify what concrete proposals would be made at the Defence Ministers' meeting, which was supposed to address the situation in Syria in general. If the Secretary General of the Alliance said that you and your colleagues were going to "very seriously" consider this request, the Greek Prime Minister immediately raised important reservations. Minister, what answers has Belgium provided at NATO level on these potential measures requested by Ankara and Berlin that they believe could contribute to the refugee crisis? What interaction would be involved, and within what framework, in relation to the decisions taken by the European Union, in particular with regard to Frontex or the Common Security and Defence Policy (CSDP)? What would be the safeguards of such measures? What assessment does NATO make of the package of reinsurance measures for Turkey adopted last year, including air surveillance, air police and an increased maritime presence in the Eastern Mediterranean? Do any additional measures have or are they going to be taken in this direction? Beyond Syria-related issues, could you, Minister, debrief the decisions taken by this NATO Summit, in particular on an "advanced presence" of the Alliance in Eastern Europe? What will be the possible consequences on the ground, particularly for Belgium, of Washington's decision to quadruple US presence expenditure in Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u75	Minister, on 11 February, the NATO Defence Ministers decided that NATO would be patrolling the Aegean Sea in the fight against smugglers. A NATO fleet of three frigates under German leadership will tackle the smuggling routes of gangs bringing refugees from Turkey to Greece. NATO will work closely with the Turkish and Greek authorities and with Frontex. The ships are part of the Standing NATO Response Force Maritime Group 2, a parate unit of five ships currently under German command and operating near Cyprus. In addition to a German supply ship, the fleet consists of Canadian, Turkish and Italian ships. According to the Secretary-General of NATO, the fleet will transmit crucial information to the Coast Guard, which finds hundreds of refugees at sea every day. The main aim is to expose the smuggling gangs. I would have liked an answer to the following questions. Did Belgium already have a question to contribute to this mission? Several NGOs expressed concern about the exchange of information between NATO and Turkey. Given Turkey's hostility towards the Kurdish people, this additional information could potentially jeopardise the security of refugees. Was this concern discussed at the meeting in Evere?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u76	Mr Minister, I come immediately to my questions, the matter has been clearly outlined by my fellow Members. What is the mandate of this mission? The Union has fulfilled a similar mission in the Mediterranean off the Libyan coast, in Libyan waters, with the mission NAVFOR Med. What is the difference between this operation and the NATO operation? When it comes to EUNAVFOR Med, we are talking about an EU operation. This is a NATO operation. What additional tasks will the NATO operation carry out? What is the context and what are the specific objectives? We've read and heard that you love the plan. What is Belgium's contribution to this NATO operation? Shall we cooperate in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u77	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Europe is today facing the biggest migration crisis since the end of the Second World War. At the meeting of NATO Defence Ministers on 10 and 11 February 2016, NATO members expressed their support in addressing the networks of smugglers in response to the joint demand of Germany, Turkey and Greece, "La Grèce aussi', "M. Pirlot'. At the NATO summit, ministers decided to instruct SACEUR, the head of NATO, to make a proposal on the rules of engagement and so on in such an operation by 24 February. The objective would be to contribute to international efforts to curb illegal trafficking in the Aegean. It is about the Aegean Sea, between Turkey and Greece. The Standing NATO Maritime Group 2 (SNMG 2) is currently deployed in the region. It will be responsible, in cooperation with the competent authorities, for conducting operations for the recognition, monitoring and control of illegal crossings in the Aegean Sea and for establishing a direct liaison with the European Border Management Agency (Frontex). The operation in the Aegean Sea is therefore complementary to NAVFOR MED in the south of the Mediterranean. Belgium is part of the Standing NATO Maritime Group 1, which is aimed towards the north. Belgium is not part of the operation of Standing NATO Maritime Group 2, and we have not received any direct demand to contribute to this. I would like to confirm what I said earlier in this committee. We want to make a contribution in the autumn to NAVFOR Med in the form of a frigate. It's planned, and it's still planned. There's no reason to change that. During the Defence Ministers' meeting, NATO also took the decision to develop options for intensifying intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance operations along the Turkish-Syrian border. Turkey is on the first line of the crisis and these measures are designed to strengthen the measures taken by NATO in December to support Turkey. Mr Top, if people or NGOs are concerned about the exchange of information between Turkey and NATO, I must point out that Turkey is a member of NATO. It seems clear to me, therefore, that they are getting information from NATO. In addition, NATO has decided to increase its support for the international coalition against Daesh. Following a U.S. request, AWACS surveillance aircraft will be used to fill the gaps caused by the fact that international capabilities have been allocated to the fight against Daesh. This decision will enhance the coalition's ability to weaken and destroy the terrorist group. More effective intelligence and enhanced surveillance are key factors in NATO's response to hybrid threats, whether they come from the East or the South. NATO thus improves its capacity to identify and respond quickly to hybrid threats. NATO and the European Union, both of which play a role in providing instruments and advising in specific areas, will cooperate even more closely. Belgium has put a very strong emphasis on this. Take, for example, the properly discussed operation that NATO would carry out in the Aegean: it was requested and announced at a time when EU representatives were there. This has been discussed with the EU and will go hand in hand with it. Structural agreements have also been made on cyber issues. We have called for this to be done in other areas of information collection. Finally, by announcing that they would multiply by four the means made available to the Allies in Europe, the United States reassured the members of the Alliance and reaffirmed their strong posture in the context of the crisis in Eastern Europe. The more people move to the east, the more people cry out for measures against Russia. They feel that threat differently than we do today. The Americans have partly responded by announcing that they are going to quadruple. It is specifically about, for example, the prepositioning of material and the like, but this question will be discussed later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u78	Minister, thank you for your full answers. In view of the American decision to quadruple expenditure, has a more concrete decision been taken in relation to an advanced presence in Eastern Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u79	During the discussion, the Americans announced a quadrupling of spending and each said "thank you". The Baltics are very pleased with this confirmation. The analysis of the safe environment shows that the Americans are rather focused on the Pacific. However, they have confirmed that they continue to support NATO.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u80	Madam President, Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer. I have a reflection on the answer to my second question and the remarks of the NGOs. I think it is important to pay a great deal of attention to everything that has to do with human rights, even if Turkey is part of NATO. The whole region is a hornet's nest and the problem is that it is not easy to do good work there or to gather information. I think it is very important to work on these points at such meetings. The various partners should be urged to take account of human rights vis-à-vis the various population groups in the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u81	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for the answer. It is a good thing that the European Union and NATO cooperate better when it comes to the fight against Daesh. From your reply, Minister, I understand that we were not asked to participate in NATO's operation in the Aegean Sea. So we will not contribute to it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u82	That is not what is planned at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u83	Okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u84	Madam President, I would like to make it clear that we are working from an international coalition in the fight against Daesh. NATO is not a party to this. I think it's best to keep it that way, too. After the NATO meeting, we had a meeting in NATO buildings with the partners present in that international coalition. It's clear which direction it's headed. However, it is important to continue to stress that NATO is not part of the international coalition today. All NATO countries are involved in the international coalition, but as an organisation NATO is not directly involved. It seems important to me to continue to stress this in order to counter the unwanted perception as if it were a war against Islam.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u85	Minister, it is important that you make that distinction. However, if you look at those 35 or more countries, there are a lot of NATO countries there. It is not a matter of NATO against the rest, and then Russia is in a bit of a position there. That's what you're talking about, I think. NATO as a military alliance can, of course, facilitate a number of things. You have also rightly pointed out that achieving something within NATO is sometimes more efficient and smoother than achieving something within the EU.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u86	Madam President, Minister, as you know, I am very committed to the missions that come under the assistance of the Nation, because they seem to me to be essential. This is the case with the so-called search and rescue missions in the North Sea. When you presented the outline of the strategic plan, your slide 28 included several National Defence tasks that were under review or could even go to the trap by 2030. I am thinking in particular of rescue at sea. This announcement may seem paradoxical, while the Belgian army took delivery, a short time ago, of brand new NH90 helicopters in naval version (NFH) in order to allow the eventual replacement of the aging Sea Kings. Minister, according to what timetable and method do you envisage the abandonment of offshore research missions? What other agency would be responsible for these missions? Do you think you're using the public or private? Have you ever contacted the local authorities about this? If this pure and simple abandonment were to be decided, what would happen to our NH90s in the naval version?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u87	Pirlot, as I explained to the members of the National Defence Commission on January 13th, the task of search and rescue is a government responsibility. It will still have to be honoured in the future. I also noted that the four NH90s of our Defence's naval version – the NATO Frigate Helicopters (NFH) – are currently responsible for carrying out this internal security mission. In addition to the replacement of the five Sea King helicopters, which were previously responsible for the offshore rescue task, the NFH will also replace the three Alouette III helicopters that serve as on-board helicopters on our navy's vessels. A study must determine whether it is possible to combine this task with the search and rescue mission. The staff will quickly inform me of possible solutions. It will then be possible to make an objective decision with my government colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u88	Minister, thank you for your answer. Having said that, it is my responsibility from a well-informed and recurring source that your department would conduct very advanced negotiations with a private company that would take over the tasks of search and rescue. Can you confirm or deny me this information?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u89	It is clear that it is necessary to examine what can be done in this area. But for the time being, I can tell you, by looking into your eyes, that no negotiations are under way. Of course there are questions. Studies are being conducted. In other words, contacts are made to see how to proceed, which can be done, but also to determine the cost of a possible initiative. But I repeat that no negotiations are currently under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u90	Minister, thank you for your very clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u91	Minister, a question has already been asked about the increase in the US defence budget and the general enthusiasm that seems to exist on this issue. The prospect of the threat in Eastern Europe is one of the things you have raised in your strategic plan, yet a threat that we must take into account. I understand that last year the U.S. military was looking for a 70 000 m2 storage facility in Europe. A number of press reports have shown that they have asked this question to a number of NATO partners in Europe. There was also a specific question as to what action could be taken on Belgian territory. Minister, is that what the media reports are about? What's the timing of that? How much and what type of material are we talking about? I read that it is about tanks, vehicles and ammunition, but I would like more concrete information on this. Is there a new employment situation? Who will recruit: the U.S. Army, Defense or an intermediary, a private company? What type of jobs are we talking about? After all, you mentioned the possibility of 200 jobs. Are these jobs for low-skilled or other people and for what functions? Will American soldiers and/or civilians also be employed in Zutendaal? Can, or will, this military equipment storage facility be inspected by Russia under the CFE Convention or the Open Skies Convention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u92	Mr Buysrogge, I would like to give you concrete answers. Then it would be a lot quieter in my own province. The fact is that there is already a basic agreement. At that time we replied in principle that if that question comes, Belgium will deliver. Two weeks ago, following the announcement by the US President that the budget was being increased, we received confirmation that Zutendaal would be one of three locations where the US military would like to accommodate the equipment of its mechanized brigade. This concerns all conventional material related to such brigades: rolling stock, cannons or ammunition. Today demand is limited to part of the quarter of Zutendaal, but it can be expanded. This is expected to happen in the long term. With regard to the legal basis for using 15 minutes together, we assume the existing 1973 agreement. There are also agreements on cofinancing and so on. There is another agreement to be reached on practical matters: who will recruit people, for what tasks, etc. In any case, we expect that it will be mainly about surveillance jobs, maintenance jobs, and so on. According to current data, the presence of military personnel would remain very limited, because this is a matter of storage. The material would be placed here in order to deterrence and reassurance, so that the Americans can put that material in a flash where it is needed. It could be about 200 to 250 jobs. That's what I said. The assignments and activities of the Rolling Material and Armament Centre are actually about the CC in Rocourt, but Zutendaal is covered by the CFE agreements today. That doesn't change. It's gonna stay that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u93	So, Minister, this is more of an agreement in principle. I understand that you are looking forward to further concreteising it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u94	It's gonna be real quick.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u95	Do you know when new elements in the file would be known? In the dossier there are a number of opportunities, initially in the field of employment in Limburg, but also for the wider region employment is an interesting fact. We position ourselves as a loyal ally by making the agreement possible. I understand it's about the storage of conventional material. I heard a sigh of scam in my back neighbor about that. It is also an opportunity in terms of security. I have already said that your strategic plan takes account of these threats. In this respect, we can provide an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u96	I have to leave the committee meeting. After all, I am registered for a seminar on defence. Registration started at 12:00.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u97	I have an appointment at 13:50. I didn't leave it until the questionnaire was finished.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u98	Mr Top has offered to replace me, for which I thank him. Work can therefore continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u99	Of course, Minister, I hope that the questions can be answered and that not too much confidential information will be provided. However, I know that you are careful in that regard. In the past, there have been good contacts between Belgium and the Kurdish government. In 2015, there were a whole series of contacts, both at parliamentary and ministerial level. There was also an exchange of views in the External Relations Committee in March 2015. In the course of 2015, a number of senators were also drawn to Kurdistan. A hearing was also held here in the committee on 27 October 2015, in which a delegation of Iraqi Kurds was presented under the direction of General Jafar Mustafa Ali. She also explicitly asked for support from Belgium in both humanitarian and medical matters as well as in the military field. I understand that, when the delegation was here in the country, there were also contacts with the federal government and with you. The general tone in the committee was at that time that Belgium had to consider how support could be provided. That was not in the context of an international coalition. That was not at the time in the context of Belgium's task package in the international coalition. We have heard that a government decision was taken in early February 2016, which could provide support for the Kurds. What could that support consist of? It would be about 41 palettes and medical kits, which would be sent to Erbil. Five Belgian soldiers would also participate in training programmes for the peshmerga organized by Germany. Minister, how long will the five military cooperate in the German training programme? In what way will we participate in the training programmes? Can the number of military personnel continue to evolve in the future? In addition to humanitarian and military support, there was also a clear demand for military, weapons and ammunition. The government has not yet answered that question. Why not? Does the aid offered meet the request of the Kurdistan regional government? Has the government received a response from that government?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u100	Mr Buysrogge, Defence does indeed contribute to the German training programme with military teachers who will teach different specialties in Germany. They will do that from spring onwards. We are in contact with the Germans about the correct planning and needs of their training. They bring in people and train them in specialties we have offered, such as demining. These are matters for which we are familiar. The training programmes will continue to be the subject of an evaluation. The Belgian Government's view is that the Iraqi Government must guarantee sufficient inclusiveness of the various population groups. The provision of direct military support to a particular population group could go against this. That is why it is used to provide defensive and non-lethal support. That's why no weapons and ammunition are delivered. The Kurdish government is a asking party and has a whole shopping list, which I also got, but we choose to supply defense equipment and support defensive and non-lethal. The supply of arms and ammunition is also subject to legal and political constraints and to the agreement of the Iraqi central government. As said, the peshmerga have asked us for training and for the delivery of medical equipment. The response of the Kurdistan regional government was one of appreciation for the contribution made to both the training and the air campaign.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u101	Thank you, Minister. I understand that this is entirely within the remit of the international coalition. Women are also active at the peshmerga, as was just mentioned. They are brave warriors of a courageous people who protect themselves and who also take on an important role within the international coalition. By the way, the peshmerga have a large front line to defend. I appreciate that the government has examined what can be done within the legal framework and international possibilities. It is good to hear that is appreciated by the peshmerga. That path can certainly be continued. The peshmerga have a somewhat difficult relationship with the Iraqi government and it is obvious that this should be handled with caution. It is good to see what can be done as far as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u102	Minister, on 4 February last, the Dutch and German Defence Ministers signed a declaration of intent on intensive naval cooperation. Germany becomes a co-user of the Dutch support ship Karel Doorman and the German Seebataillon is integrated into the Royal Navy. The lieutenant-general of the Marines Rob Verkerk puts it this way: "What you ultimately want is that the Seebataillon and similar units of the naval forces command are interoperable so that the Germans can click in quickly at any time. We will coordinate training programmes, as well as techniques, tactics and procedures. Is there any chance that this intensified cooperation between the Dutch and the German Navy will disrupt Belgian-Dutch cooperation? What influence does this cooperation have on our cooperation? Secondly, is there any chance that Belgium will also enter into this cooperation between the Netherlands and Germany? Thirdly, how will the possible use of the support ship Karel Doorman be arranged? Will there be a turn role or some kind of point system operated by the respective marines? Finally, has Dutch-German cooperation changed the plans for the future with our own support ship, the Godetia?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u103	Mr President, Mr Top, we were not involved in the presentation of the German-Dutch agreement and are therefore unable to provide detailed information or to give an assessment of the facts. It is true that this agreement does not affect the existing cooperation between Belgium and the Netherlands. International cooperation is of course important and remains important for the security of European countries. Such cooperation allows for the acquisition or maintenance of the capacity that an individual country can no longer afford on its own. In order to make such far-reaching forms of cooperation a success, which is of course important, there must of course be sufficient confidence and synergy between the participating partners. Each partner must, of course, be able to make a sufficient and relevant contribution in order to create a win-win situation for the partners involved. Your last question was about the Godetia. Here's what I want to nuance. The Charles Doorman is a completely different ship from the Godetia. The Godetia became 50 years last year. If we replace our mine hunters, there will also be sufficient command capacity, in such a way that we will no longer need a ship of the type Godetia. We will thus achieve efficiency gains when the mine hunters are effectively replaced. With regard to the Karel Doorman, I believe that I have already suggested that it could also be an option for us to take part. We will examine this in the near future. Next week I have planned a consultation with my Dutch colleague, where many dossiers will be placed side by side and why we will discuss possibilities for cooperation. There are several ways to contribute: financial, with people, in agreed hours or in another way. For example, the EATC works through an exchange of hours C-130. There are several ways of making such systems work. You know that our cooperation today, within BeNeSam, is one based on a closed scholarship and weighing the frigates against the mine hunters. That's the bottom line.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u104	Thank you for your answer. I have another question about the future. You say that next week you planned a consultation with your Dutch colleague on further cooperation in the field of the Navy, but also, as you have shown, in other areas of Defence. Is there any possibility, for example, of extending the current cooperation between the Netherlands and Belgium at the level of the Navy, you said that you were not involved in the cooperation between the Netherlands and Germany, in order to see each other as fully-fledged and reliable partners in the future and to establish cooperation with the three countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u105	You are right and in an ideal world it would all be, but I myself am convinced that such things are growing from the bottom up. We are now working with the Netherlands for the frigates and mine hunters. The Dutch have the Charles Doorman. They had too much capacity. They also have submarines. I don't think we're going to go along with that. Partnerships must be properly coordinated. As far as cooperation with Germany is concerned, if, for example, we are going to introduce replacement programmes, I already know that they are also looking at frigates and mine hunters. The bigger the market survey, the more efficient it can be.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u106	Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Vriendt's 9337 question was converted into a written question. Mr Vandenput is not here, so his question No. 9353 expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u107	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vandenput (Commission); Mr Vandenput; Mr Vandenput; Mr Vandenput; Mr Vandenput; Mr Vandenput;
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u108	Minister, according to the trade unions, the balance between work and private life within the army has been lost. This has to do with the fact that the military have been deployed for more than a year for security orders in their own country. According to the reports, a number of soldiers would not have been able to take their holidays from last year. Despite a previous measure that you have already taken, in particular the deployment of logistics personnel, the workload would still be too high. You calculated the complaints in an interview in relation to this by stating that the military are mainly proud of their mission, and rightly so, and that they get a great deal of understanding and appreciation for their efforts. In your plan, 700 recruitments will be planned over the next four years. In this respect, you say that a few hundred recruitments will be added in the coming years. I would therefore like to receive an answer to the following questions. Do you already see the number of additional recruitments as well as when they are planned? Will additional recruitments be planned in 2016? Will the extra recruited soldiers be deployed on the street as well? This is, of course, dependent on the consultation on the protocol on the use of the military in the streets. What solution do you plan to reduce working pressure in the shorter term? In the meantime, how many soldiers who carried out a security mission in the last year have left the army at their own request? The unions argue that the military did not have the opportunity to take their holidays in 2015. How many vacation days are we talking about? Can those days still be recorded and within what time limit?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u109	Mr Minister, my question concerns the military deployed in the context of Operation Homeland Security to monitor important strategic sites, given the current threat of terrorism. These tasks are carried out in addition to their trainings and other operations. That causes a few problems now. This was shown, among other things, by a report by Terzoe, for which you gave an interview. The problem is that for these soldiers the relationship between work and private is no longer in balance. For example, I learned that soldiers would be deployed abroad following a security mission. This means an eviction of more than 3 months, which of course has an impact on the situation at home. The complaint has also been formulated that military workers would not be able to take their leave from last year. Hence my next questions. Do you recognize there's a problem? Has this been discussed with the trade unions? From the reaction of the military and the trade unions, I understand that if we want to continue Operation Homeland Security, structural solutions are needed to give the military fair opportunities. Through which initiatives will you make their further efforts possible? Would you like to schedule this bet in their normal day duties and military assignments? Will you take into account their social and family life? We know that the military will receive additional compensation for these security orders. I have been told that this is 50 euros a day. Are you going to revisit it and adjust it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u110	I can agree that it can be assumed that the social pressure of the military in combat units is high today. Two things are happening in order to meet this. First of all, recruitment is being increased. Secondly, military forces other than those of the combat units are and are being prepared to participate in the mission. In doing so, we take away the pressure from the combat units for a piece. This discussion was also held in the past. Recruitment will have to seek a balance between all the needs of Defence linked to the assignments and the available budget. I can confirm that we will be able to do the necessary redeployments for 2016 in the budget for 200 additional recruitments. Those extra recruited soldiers must of course first receive training before they can carry out operational assignments, either abroad or in Belgium. We make little distinction in that regard. The military who leave the DOD at their request are not obliged to give up their reason for leaving. They are, of course, being interviewed, but today it is not possible to give a correct picture of the number of military personnel that would have left Defence because of the fact that they have carried out a security mission over the past year. We do not identify any relevant differences in numbers at the departures on request compared to the last two years. I don't know about the union guy's statistics. I also took part in this issue. On this point, in Brussels, a serious search was made for someone who would effectively confirm that he had problems. In the reportage I heard that this man is a lot away from home and if something like this were to happen in my family situation, I would be very sorry. I didn't hear that man say that, though, because he said it was his job. So we have to be careful not to fill anything out for other people. As I said in this regard, I am not concerned with tables which will patrol when and where. However, I asked the Staff to maintain good balances around the Christmas period, so as to ensure that anyone who was invited would be at least one of the two parties at home, unless one would indicate that this would not be a problem. Well, then, about the holidays. All military can take their holidays from 2015 until 30 April 2016. So we can't know today what the unrecorded holiday days of 2015. We can sue, but then we need to know that the problem exists. So we actually have to wait until 30 April 2016 to see if people have recorded their 2015 days or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u111	Can't you see how many people have days left?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u112	Of course not, because they are allowed to record those days until April 30th. So we can't say today that people haven't been able to take their days. I can't answer that. If people could not take their holidays for operational reasons, I did ask them to look for solutions. The General Staff is working on that. We do not intend to make any adjustments to the amounts of the fees legally linked to the sub-position 2, i.e. the sub-position "in operational deployment'. This is part of an overall package, and I believe that neither the social partners nor I have the sense to discuss it. If we open that door, we need to discuss everything and some things, which may not be appropriate today. There are more pressing matters. I believe that the compensation that is required in relation to the effort is actually a reasonable remuneration.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u113	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You have already indicated that the redeployments for 2016 have already been affected, in order to recruit 200 additional soldiers in 2016. I assume that this number of additional military personnel will also be filled in to the same extent in the following years. Or isn't that obvious?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u114	Yes, I do. Mr Top, you know that I have never put it under the table that I thought 700 was too little. Within the carcan in which we had to work, however, that was almost the only solution that occurred at that time. Now I've asked what we can do to get more people, if necessary with a shift here and there. We have also had a few windfalls in the past year, which allowed us to make a few shifts which will give us more credit for those recruitments. For the next few years, we want to do the same thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u115	Hopefully this will be possible in the following years; There's still a concern. I am satisfied with the answer you have already given, but I use the link to the holidays as a stepping stone. If, for operational reasons, the 2015 leave cannot be taken before the end of April, it will be possible to foresee it later. That is a first point. In addition, I would like to draw your attention to a point you have made. If one stays in this mode, the pressure will remain on the staff and we must also pay attention to this. You yourself said that if these additional recruitments come there will still be a lead time for the training before those people are effectively operational. Also in 2016 we will have to continue to pay attention to the workload of the staff, to keep that pressure for the military on a human scale.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u116	I would like to add that we have said that we will also register other units in the surveillance orders. That actually means a much greater liberation than a few recruits are included in a certain unit, if you know what I mean.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u117	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I believe that in any government organisation there should be a healthy balance between the exercise of the job and the private situation. In the event that we are discussing it, I think that is even more relevant. After all, if someone executes an assignment of a certain number of days, then a rest period must be inserted afterwards. We know that these soldiers are under great pressure. There is a threat of terrorism level 3 or 4. It is not excluded that there will be another threat in the foreseeable future. We must not underestimate the impact on the functioning of these military forces. More than that, we have to take that into account. In the organisation, therefore, it is absolutely impossible for a military officer to carry out an operation abroad after a security mission of several weeks or a month. I've heard that, though. A soldier had determined that. We must avoid such situations, and there is a task for the leadership, which must take this into account. With regard to holiday days, I think it is good that those concerned should be given the opportunity to take up another 15 days until the end of April. I will then ask whether many soldiers are still in that situation. I noticed one case in that interview. You said that the trade unions were not aware of the problems, but that you did not hear these complaints from the military themselves. It might be a good idea for the leadership to do a questioning, to improve that task and to respond to the expectations of the military. I would like to stress once again that these soldiers are on the streets in the weather and in very difficult circumstances. We should be grateful to them for that. However, we must also give them the facilities to do their work in a correct, safe and optimal way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u118	Mr Yüksel, I do not want any problems with the unions. In particular, I have indicated that I understand the problem of someone who spends two weeks in Brussels and leaves for surgery immediately afterwards. The paratroopers came back from a mission and were confronted with threat level 4 the following weekend. You should know that the people involved are ordinary and that there are things that we need to put right and that are much more important, such as decent housing. The framework facilities are much more important. I have therefore paid attention to this first. You're asking me to organize a survey. I assume that the detachment commanders and their people are making a permanent evaluation. Normally there's always a briefing and a debriefing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u119	When this evaluation is carried out, what is the result of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u120	I haven't picked up any signals from my systems that there are effective problems at that level. There are smaller problems, like there wouldn't be enough clams. I did not understand in my department or through my channels that there would be such problems. In this respect, I would like to express my appreciation to the military, which you yourself claim to be in the wind. It is not known that they are in terror level 3 with a weapon on the street. I didn't want the discussion to fall into sadness. There is an appreciation of me in my capacity as Minister and of the people. That appreciation is clearly there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u121	Minister, there has been a lot of ink over the past few days and weeks about the possible succession of the Chief of Staff. In July, the mandate of the current Chief of Staff, General Van Caelenberge, ends. He has been in charge of the Belgian army since 2012. Minister, the current Chief of Staff's mandate would not be extended. Can you confirm that? What are the reasons for this? The mandate can be extended perfectly for the sake of continuity and preparation of the follow-up. What language, component, grade conditions do you put first when choosing a new chief of staff? Given that General Van Caelenberge's mandate expires in July, what is the timing for replacing the Chief of Staff? What procedure should be followed? Has the position been declared vacant in the meantime? Is a selection organized? On what basis will you make the replacement run smoothly?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u122	Minister, there has been a great deal of fuss since 2 February. I've got the roaring headlines: "Strike for post army boss bursts loose," which sounds rather negative, "Leger seeks white raven," "Wanted: economical army boss" and "Speculations about new chief of staff army." There are also names that are potentially eligible. I've always learned that being called is not a good omen. So at least there was a lot of fuss about the replacement. I would like to endorse Mr Yüksel's business tone and confine myself to specific questions, which are largely in line with those of Mr Yüksel. How is the Chief of Staff appointed and what are the modalities of that appointment? What procedure is being followed to appoint a new chief of staff? Who's eligible to be chief of staff? Are there specific conditions? Who decides on these conditions and how will they be communicated to potential candidates? Is there a selection procedure, such as for managers in other public services? As the Minister of Civil Service, you should have a look at that as well. What are the selection criteria? Is there a kind of management agreement between the Minister and the Chief of Staff to achieve the objectives effectively?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u123	I'm not giving an introduction, because that's already been done. I have two brief questions about the procedure. Mr Minister, could you explain more about the procedure for replacing the CHOD? Are you prepared to hold hearings with the candidates so that the Defence Committee can deliver an opinion to the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u124	Thank you for your questions. I would like to say that I have a very good professional relationship with the current Chief of Defense, General Van Caelenberge. A journalist who writes an opinion piece in the evening, the next morning on the radio commenting on his opinion piece of the previous evening and thus goes to the unions at noon to try to confront me with it, has managed to turn a sleeping story into a news fact. Good journalistic work, I'll say. The procedure for the appointment of the Chief of Defence shall be governed by Article 76 of the Act of 28 February 2007 establishing the Staff Regulations of the Military and Candidate Military Officers of the Armed Forces. That provision provides for a number of things. It is an indication that is made with a KB, which is consulted in the Council of Ministers. The term of office itself shall be four years. An extension of one year may be carried out in accordance with the same procedure. It is therefore not an implied extension. (...) : (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u125	Apparently so. According to the lyrics, yes. I don't know how that happened in the past, but okay. Defense is still a ministry, the only thing, really. There is no management agreement between the Chief of Defence and other authorities or services. The pool of candidates is made up of generals, basically. From the Major-General's degree. The current Chief of Defense was appointed on 13 July 2012. The only thing that is established today, and I do not confirm that his mandate is not being extended, because that is not an issue now, is that his current mandate expires on 13 July of this year. Do I want to consult on that? Should I be a member of the opposition, I would ask the same question, Mr Top. I think it is very good that the Defence Commission should hear it soon after when a new Chief of Defense is appointed. However, it seems to me that it is difficult to conduct such a procedure concerning persons in the public domain. I believe that, in this context, the protection of the privacy of potential candidates is nevertheless appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u126	Minister, you say that the current Chief of Staff's mandate will be terminated in July. You cannot confirm or deny whether or not it stays on. You said just now that under the Rules of Procedure an extension of his mandate should also be the subject of...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u127	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u128	The extension should also be the subject of a procedure. We're in the middle of February now. Valentine just passed. That means we still have four or five months to get it done. A procedure is needed both for an extension and for a new recruitment. Our concern is whether it will be done in time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u129	For this, we only need a two-page KB.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u130	Yes, but we must respect certain deadlines if you declare the position vacant. You know that as Minister of Civil Service.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u131	I'm just trying to make that clear. The appointment of a CHOD takes place through a KB, which is discussed in the Council of Ministers. Period. We shouldn't be writing ads for a new CHOD. We simply need to reach an agreement. It's the minister's jurisdiction. The King appoints. It is basically that the Council of Ministers discusses candidates and lays down its own requirements and so on.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u132	Mr President, Minister, the extension is therefore a very simple procedure. I have two further questions. The new Chief of Staff will arrive at a crucial moment, namely in the implementation of a very important Strategic Plan for Defence. I think that the proper preparation and implementation of this Plan will be your flagship for the Defense Department. If one looks at the past, one can see that when the current Chief of Staff was appointed in 2012 the opposition asked to do so in a good and transparent way. Among other things, it was asked not to be a political appointment. In today's climate, it would be a good thing that whoever comes to that post meets the right profile so that they can implement the Strategic Plan for the future of Defence. I have no doubt that the government will make the right choice. I have another question about an objective procedure and an external assessment. In the previous legislature, Mr Bert Maertens asked for hearings to be held in Parliament. Now that you're sitting in the chair of the executive and Secretary of Defense, how do you stand on the other side? Those are my two specific supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u133	Mr President, I think I have replied. It is important that the new Chief of Defense, as soon as he is appointed, get to know Parliament quickly. Contrary to what people's representatives sometimes think of us, it is true that, now that I have received a number of personal files, I find that not everything should be made known to the general public. There must be confidence in the people who make the selection. Mr Yüksel, I am open to your suggestions. I'd be surprised if your party didn't have any ideas about how things were going.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u134	Mr. Secretary, I'd like to go into that. My concern is the same. It's not a question of political games. Of course, there has to be privacy; it's about people. This committee plays an important role. You are a minister, but Parliament plays an important role. There is little point in having a private meeting in advance to examine the views of the candidates in order to lead the department and the Belgian army and how they intend to implement the priorities set out in the strategic plan on the ground. I wouldn't rule this out in advance. In the past, this proposal also came from your group. That's secondary, but I think this could be an added value to achieve the best choice for the Chief of Staff. That is the suggestion we are making.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u135	Minister, I am pleased with your answer. When reading the headlines, it seemed certain that it would become a French-speaking Navy. Your explanation gives a more clear picture of the situation, in the sense that all generals are eligible. So it's not a pre-arranged matter who ends up in that position. I am satisfied with the business procedure that will be followed. We all benefit from getting the right man or woman in that place. This is important, regardless of any turnover in the past based on language or component. After all, that is of secondary importance. For my group it is important to get the right man or woman in that place. As regards the management agreement, you said that there are no specific objectives. It would be useful to know what can happen and what this man or woman should do, in view of the strategic plan to which both Mr Yüksel and I attach great importance. The CHOD must be aware of this and become the personification of it. It is therefore important to give clear objectives to that person. As far as Parliament's involvement is concerned, the statute is what it is, so this is regulated by KB, after the government's concert. The committee should at least be able to become fully acquainted with the person concerned soon after the appointment of the new Chief of Staff. The procedure must be business-like, regardless of any possible political polemic. A hearing on this would, as it were, be a competition played in the public and I doubt whether this would be a good thing for the desired serenity and skill of the person concerned. Parliament's involvement should be possible at least immediately after that appointment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u136	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation of the procedure. I am perhaps the only one who has not started polemics with newspaper titles and whether or not there are reasons for not extending them. I want to stick to business and, above all, to focus on it. As for hearing the candidates for the office by the Chamber, since the CHOD becomes the head of a group of people of very large size, that function is very important. My fellow Members have already referred to it, since we are now at a turning point, with the strategic plan, and he must identify himself with it, implement it and provide the necessary support for it, it is extremely important for the Members of Parliament to know his motivation, not afterwards, because then the decision has already been taken, but in advance. The impression that it would be politically regulated is not the basis of my question. I just asked to at least hear the candidates. What's their motivation for the job? What are their possible methods and practices to bring the strategic plan and the interaction with the government to a successful conclusion? It can only increase transparency in the appointment procedure of the CHOD. I am sorry that the answer can go quickly, with a two-page Royal Decree. I hope that the procedure and the considerations for reaching your decision will be longer than two pages. I therefore urge that, before the government's decision, at least a hearing be held. In fact, we have tabled a resolution to that effect. It is then up to the committee to complete its procedures and to regulate its work. However, I believe that the candidates should be able to be heard in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u137	Allow me to make one more comment, because I have gone rather far beyond the prepared answers. If the Chamber so requests, then a resolution can be adopted on that and I have no problem with that. I think you should consider not just doing that for the CHOD, but for every senior official, and then you should see what you're getting into.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u138	It's about the highest position in the Defense Department, just to be clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u139	Right, but there is also the highest position in the FPS Finance, in Mobility, and you name it. There are highest positions everywhere. If the Chamber so wishes or asks for a resolution, then we will follow the Chamber. My personal appreciation is, however, when that question is formulated, that this should not be done for one person, but for all similar functions. As I've said smilingly before, the FPS Treasury is sometimes more dangerous than our army. Soon the FPS Treasury may be bigger than our army. So I would just like to say, if that is considered, that it should be considered across the board. I think the honesty is not to limit that to this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u140	All right, thanks. That concludes this meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u141	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-17-54-commissie-ic337x.u142	Mr Yüksel, you have had ample opportunity to replicate.
