ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u1	Madam President, Minister, in the context of the Less-for-less approach, part of bilateral development cooperation in Burundi was suspended and also stopped. For both the suspension and the cessation, can you indicate the amounts involved and the projects that apply? In 2015, you announced and actually promised to reorient those resources so that the population would not fall victim to the political decision taken at the time. However, this reorientation has still not happened, as is clear from your reply to a written question from me. Why hasn't this reorientation happened yet? Are the resources for reorientation as such included in the 2017 budget? If the government is still planning to reorient, by when should that be achieved? What channels and sectors is the government aiming at?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u2	Minister, Burundi has announced that it will cease its cooperation with the United Nations. Of course, this démarche has a major impact on the human rights situation in that country and also points to a lack of respect for the basic principles of a democratic society. The decision to stop cooperation also affects us and our share in the funding of the UN Human Rights Office, which should open its doors in early 2017. That's why I have a few questions for you. What is the state of play with regard to the establishment of the Office in Burundi? Will it or will it not be stopped? Has the Belgian contribution to the Human Rights Office already been paid in? If that is not the case, will that happen? So I have a number of practical questions about what is going to happen to the office now. How will the Belgian Development Cooperation in Burundi proceed? In the past, you indicated that a third mandate of President Nkurunziza will no longer be the subject of a classic cooperation programme. Has the embassy in Bujumbura delivered any proposals on this matter to you? How will our country monitor respect for democracy and human rights in Burundi? Burundi is not complying with the Arusha agreements and is breaking up its cooperation with the United Nations. What impact does this have on further cooperation with Burundi? Could the situation lead us to withdraw from that country if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u3	Madam President, with regard to government cooperation, Belgium remains strongly committed to the Burundian people through ongoing bilateral projects in the fields of health, agriculture and education. Our implementing agency, the CTB, is currently implementing an important European Union programme in the field of health, on the European Development Fund, to which Belgium is also contributing. We also assisted Burundian refugees through funding from the World Food Programme (WFP). Upon the announcement of President Nkurunziza's candidacy for a third term – which constituted a clear break with the Arusha agreements – I decided to stop a series of interventions, including support for the police, elections and justice, which represents a budget of around EUR 14 million. In addition, when selecting the new countries of government cooperation, in May 2015, the Belgian government decided to conclude new cooperation programmes with Burundi, the DRC and Rwanda only after free and transparent elections were held. Belgium has also aligned itself with the timetable of the Article 96 process of the Cotonou Convention and the European Commission. In this context, I decided to suspend the following interventions: support for governance, public procurement and the strategy of good governance, institutional support in the sectors of concentration, all institutional support interventions for the government and its administration, as well as the Fund for Studies and Expertise, the Belgian contribution to the World Bank's project to strengthen the institutional capacity of the Republic of Burundi, as well as a project for a dam and clearing up of the President's electoral fief. The suspended interventions amount to approximately EUR 45 million. The budget for the current programme of cooperation with Burundi is EUR 200 million. Of this amount, 14 million are the subject of programme closures and 45 million programme suspensions. Interventions focused on the well-being of the population continue in the three sectors mentioned (health, education, agriculture). The Belgian and European measures ultimately have only one goal: to encourage the Burundian government to take all necessary steps to get out of the current crisis. The European Union presented the steps to be taken by the Burundian government to move forward in this direction. Belgium is fully in line with this approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u4	I would like to go into more detail about a number of articles that were published in the press last week and a number of questions and statements by Members of Parliament, including Mr De Vriendt. I want to try to explain what one wants to achieve. Is this a saving measure? No, obviously not. Out of a total of 200 million euros, 14 million euros were cancelled and 45 million were suspended. These EUR 45 million remain available and are re-used within the ongoing programme of interventions that improve the fate of the population and strengthen opposition organisations such as NGOs, trade unions and farmers' organisations. The resources that are not used again can be used for a new programme on human rights, good governance and free media. The vast majority of the programmes therefore continue, i.e. those which maintain a sufficient distance from the public authorities. It is intended that the Burundian people should not be the victims of the measures taken. In addition, the World Food Programme and the High Commissioner for Refugees provided aid to Burundi's refugees. Of course, the unsafe situation in Burundi also has an impact on the implementation of the cooperation projects. The BTC has limited the number of international experts and Burundi is a non-family post for the Belgian diplomatic representation and the BTC for security reasons. The measures taken by the Burundian Government with regard to international NGOs such as checking bank accounts, bullying by tax authorities and others make it difficult to implement aid projects in favour of the local population. The reorientation of the programmes towards activities directly benefiting the population is successful. That much is clear. However, it is true that the reorientation towards more direct support for anti-power organisations and support for the defence of human rights and democracy has proved very difficult, if not impossible, for two reasons. Firstly, the NGOs, trade unions and farmers' organisations are asking to be very careful. After all, people's lives are at stake. If it is known that such organisations cooperate with the Belgian development policy, it will endanger the lives of the employees. Secondly, the regime is doing everything it can to counter such a reorientation. The regime has closed the independent media, the licences of critical NGOs have been withdrawn, accounts have been frozen and some have been prosecuted. The regime has decided that any financial resources that foreign NGOs wish to send to a local representation or to Burundian NGOs should henceforth be deposited in the accounts of the Burundian national bank. In this way, the counter-force organisations are financially wiped out. There are currently no counter-force organisations that we can support or cooperate with. We're gonna have to learn from this. Our decisions are first of all a response to the illegality and illegality of the Burundian Government, which is why Belgium wants to minimise direct cooperation. We also hope that the Belgian and European measures will have an impact on the policy of the Burundian Government. Unfortunately, it is increasingly digging in and clearly prefers isolation to cooperation. Finally, we do not wish to abandon the population. Direct services to the population are being continued. A more meaningful commitment, directly or indirectly, to human rights and democracy activities in Burundi itself is greatly hampered by the Burundian Government. I sometimes feel that we are in a situation that the Americans would describe as "You are damned if you do, and you are damned if you don't." If I had not taken action against the Burundian regime, I would have been quite rightly criticised for this. Now that we are trying to tackle the regime and at the same time save the population, with all the difficulties involved and the active sabotage by the Bujumbura regime, it is not good either. I repeat that the cooperation programme with Burundi is largely ongoing. The interventions which directly benefit the population are being continued, as opposed to direct institutional support for the Burundian government and administration. The reorientation is particularly difficult because the Burundian Government is actively countering this. We are not the only ones facing this problem. 11.11.11 has also indicated that it has become particularly difficult for them to work in Burundi. Finally, as far as the UN Human Rights Office in Burundi is concerned, no decision has yet been taken to close the OHCHR country office in Bujumbura. The country office will continue to operate until further notice. However, the Burundian authorities sent a letter to that organisation requesting the suspension of cooperation. The Belgian contribution to the OHCHR office in Burundi amounts to 1.5 million euros for the period 2015-2017. This contribution shall be paid in three letters of EUR 500 000. The contributions for 2015 and 2016 will be transferred to that organisation. The third and final contribution will be paid in 2017. As the OHCHR and the Burundian authorities do not yet have a clear decision on the presence of the organisation in Burundi, our cooperation continues as foreseen. There is one point I would like to emphasise. There is a difference between suspending and deleting, and not just in terms of expenditure. Delete means don't spend it. Suspending means freezing the budget, but retaining it. There's also a difference for the partner you work with. If we tell the Burundian government that the budget was cut, it's irreversible, the money is gone and it's spent on something else. They say the door's up. In the case of suspension, however, it is said that the money is not yet spent, but it is intended to be spent if an agreement can be reached. So it is absolutely not true that budgets were suspended or frozen for savings. It is indeed the intention to spend these budgets. I believe that we have sent a strong message to Burundi. However, if we were to say that we cut the budgets and spend somewhere else, we would strike the door and stop the dialogue. We can't do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u5	Minister, this less-for-less approach, whereby countries are financially sanctioned, is quite exceptional for our development cooperation. When you announced this political decision in 2015, we supported it and we still support it. However, I asked you for guarantees that the funds that would be frozen or stopped would be reoriented. That did not happen a year after the political decision was taken. You give a number of reasons for that. We believe that the EUR 14 million that was stopped should be reoriented. We agree that funds should be frozen, that dialogue should take place, either at European or bilateral level, with Burundi, and that we should see what is happening with these funds. As you yourself say in your reply to my written question, it must not disappear, but it must be retained for the Burundian people. So it needs to be reoriented. That is why I asked you whether the funds for refocusing, including those EUR 14 million, will be retained in the 2017 budget, or whether they will be included in the overall budget of Development Cooperation? Or do these resources disappear from the budget for development cooperation? We can't let that happen. Perhaps you could explain that further. More generally, we believe that development cooperation should become a flexible instrument, allowing the resources available to be redirected from one sector to another within one year or, why not, from one country to another, bilaterally or multilaterally, directly or indirectly. In a year's time, something like this should be possible. If you could respond positively to all these concerns, you can convince me that it will not be a flat-rate saving exercise. There is already enough savings in development cooperation. During your reign, the savings are truly enormous and completely indefenable to us. It's a billion euros, accumulated over your reign. There is now an additional EUR 25 million per year. We have already debated this in plenary. I would therefore very much appreciate an answer to my supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u6	Minister, I understand that the situation in Burundi makes it very difficult to reorient budgets so that they directly benefit the citizens of Burundi. You indicate that Burundi is increasingly retreating, isolating itself and making it increasingly difficult to refocus. I wonder how long the situation can last when we are waving a root to Burundi. At some point a decision has to be made, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u7	We are in the Article 96 construction of the ACP Treaty process. Until now, this has been a very theoretical exercise, but we are in a European context and we would like to continue in this way. We still hope that there will be an inclusive dialogue at some point, bringing everyone around the table, and then we can support it. We will not stand on the sidelines when there are positive elements. We have done the same for other countries. Mr De Vriendt, with regard to the 14 million, there is no budget line of 14 million. There is, in total, a general envelope of the Burundi programme. If we can go back to spending amounts in 2017, it will not be 14 million in 2016, 14 million in 2017 and so on. It's a global envelope. If we can spend amounts in 2017, we will spend them in 2017. If the evolution in Burundi is very good, then we will spend more. We are following a more for more approach: if things are going well, then we have absolutely no problem with doing more.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u8	That EUR 14 million has not been frozen, but stopped. You said so yourself. 2016 is coming to an end, but we believe that this EUR 14 million should be preserved, especially in 2017. When the budget comes, we will ask that the overall package for Burundi should not be reduced. I can ask you about that, and I will. There are currently several NGOs active in Burundi, such as 11.11.11, Oxfam, Brotherly Parts, Peace Islands, CARE International and the UN World Food Programme. Those organisations are active there and also spend money there. They have ongoing programmes there. The Burundian government allows that, too. In this sense, I reiterate my call for our development cooperation to be made a flexible instrument. Resources that can be redirected to organisations active in Burundi under a less-for-less approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u9	The incident is closed, but it is being prosecuted, as I understand it, when we talk about the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u10	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, in the list known as Bahamas Leaks, published by the newspaper Le Soir, among others on 22 September, appear two Belgian directors sitting in the same Bahamian company called CaseIF Corporation II Limited. These two fellow citizens represent BIO. In an interview published by the same daily, BIO's Communications Officer stated that in 2006, the Bahamas was considered an acceptable jurisdiction, given its adequate regulatory framework for a fund structure and political stability. But in 2014, new legislation came into force in Belgium, which has caused a lot of ink to flow here, prohibiting BIO, rightly, from investing in tax havens such as the Bahamas. BIO's spokesperson added that "currently, BIO still holds five investments in companies established in states that are known as tax havens, representing an outstanding amount of $14.9 million out of a total portfolio of 414.3 million and 130 investments. The States concerned are the Bahamas, the Cayman Islands and Guernsey. In accordance with the management contract concluded with the Belgian State, BIO has drawn up an exit plan for these investments and is continuing its efforts to withdraw from these investments as soon as possible. The exit plan for these five investments is expected to be completed by 2017." Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, could you detail the precise amount of the outstanding amount for each of the three tax havens involved in what is, in fact, a tax evasion? Could you detail this figure for 2015 and 2016 as well as BIO's forecast for 2017? BIO's spokesperson claims that the tax on the income generated by these offshore companies was collected in Belgium. Would I be able to know the amounts of taxes actually paid in 2013, 2014 and 2015, in Belgium, by the companies in question, according to their country of residence, namely the Bahamas, the Cayman Islands and Guernsey, which are very interesting destinations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u11	Minister, after the Panama Papers there are now the Bahamas Leaks. This would show that BIO has set up an investment fund in the Bahamas. When established in 2006, BIO said that this is legally binding. However, it has been decided that since 2013 BIO should withdraw from that investment fund. The end date is at the end of 2017. What is the explanation for the rather slow withdrawal; we are already at the end of 2016? Will it be stretched until the end of 2017 before BIO withdraws from the investment fund? After the revelations, will you accelerate the withdrawal of BIO from the Bahamas? What are the possible consequences for BIO? Should there be more losses? Given the country's declarations that it will comply with OECD international guidelines in 2018, are the Bahamas currently a tax haven according to OECD guidelines? Why is that, or why not? How do you reconcile the investment policy of BIO with regard to tax havens, which is bound by the definition of OECD tax havens, with the statement by the Bahamas that it will comply with the guidelines in 2018? Do you think BIO is acting correctly? What provisions do you make or have you already made to ensure that BIO investment funds comply with the legislation? Are there currently any investments by BIO or in which BIO participates in countries that do not comply with the OECD guidelines on tax havens? So what are the possible withdrawal periods?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u12	I would first like to comment on BIO's policy vis-à-vis the offshore financial centers and then I will answer the detailed questions. As regards the rules for BIO to invest via OFC debt securities, I continue and strengthen the policies of my predecessors. Witness to this is the investment strategy, which was approved by BIO in December 2014, only two months after my arrival. For the first time, the investment strategy includes a concrete roadmap to fully reduce investments through OFC debt instruments by the end of 2017. The investment strategy defines the 52 countries where BIO can invest. On that list, no country referred to in the Royal Decree of 1 March 2016 as a duty-free country or a low-tax country shall figure. During my visit to BIO on 15 December 2014, two months after my arrival, I announced that BIO would become a central tool in my policy and that I would continue and strengthen my predecessor's policy on tax havens. It is no longer socially acceptable for BIO to participate in investment funds that have their seat in an OFC. This gave the impression that BIO is cooperating in tax evasion and in tax evasion to the south. In a letter dated 3 March 2015 to the Chairman of the Board of Directors and to the Managing Director of BIO, I confirmed the limitation, which I want to tighten up. This modus vivendi was, in my predecessor's view, a good compromise in order to give BIO some flexibility in managing this type of situation. However, the current environment and recent developments require me to take more stringent measures in this regard. BIO is fully engaged in the implementation of the Roadmap. On 31 December 2013, the total amount of interventions through OFCs amounted to EUR 70.5 million in five countries, the Bahamas, the Cayman Islands, Panama, Cyprus, Guernsey and Luxembourg. Today, that is only EUR 14.9 million. The commitment remains that this will be fully phased out by the end of 2017. By the end of 2013, there were 15 investment files, of which 10 have been settled. Why does it take three years? There are three reasons for this. First, BIO must fulfil contractual obligations. Secondly, BIO wants to prevent companies in intervention countries from getting into trouble because of sudden disinvestment. Thirdly, BIO has a legal return obligation and wants to avoid over-lossing losses from those disinvestments. Furthermore, at my request, Parliament amended the law on BIO. The amendment of the Law of 21 July 2016 clarifies and strengthens the restrictions on OFC debt securities. I would now like to translate that into a change in the management contract with BIO. A draft is currently being discussed within the government. The management contract is also further strengthened in this respect and provides for the necessary control procedures. The law and the draft management contract provide for a total ban on working through funds and companies in OFC debt instruments. In addition, the law introduces a restriction in the case of aid to undertakings in intervention countries with a minority shareholder in the OFC debt instruments. The 2014 management contract provides for a special procedure with a minimum threshold of 25% of the shares. This threshold will be reduced to 10% in the new management contract. Finally, the amendment aims to introduce a regime for countries that voluntarily join the OECD Global Forum on Transparency and Exchange of Information for Tax Purposes evaluation process. The Global Forum process is a process in constant evolution, in which more than 130 countries participate voluntarily. Countries are subject to an in-depth assessment of the degree of compliance with the international standard on tax transparency. It is my intention to encourage accession rather than to advise against it. New lists of countries that are compliant or non-compliant regularly appear. If one of BIO's 52 intervention countries is assessed as non-compliant, the law provides for a five-year transition period allowing the acceding countries to successfully complete the Global Forum trajectory and be assessed as compliant. I come to the specific questions you ask me. CaseIF Cooperation II Ltd is an investment fund whose purpose is to invest in small businesses in Central America that do not have or lack access to long-term financing. BIO invested in this fund in 2007 with other national and multilateral development institutions. One person represents BIO on the Board of Directors of this fund to ensure BIO's interests and compliance with the rules by the fund, but does not receive any remuneration from the fund. Investment funds directed towards international investors are often not established in the countries where the final beneficiaries of their interventions are located, mainly for reasons of political stability and the appropriate legal and regulatory framework for the establishment of investment funds. The Bahamas, a geographically close state to the target countries in Central America, was considered acceptable at the time by the above-mentioned investors. The ban for BIO to invest in or via certain states considered as tax havens was introduced only by the law of 20 January 2014. The investments concerned and their outstanding amounts are as follows: - in the Cayman Islands: 3 investments, for a total outstanding amount of €6.4 million, of which 2 mature in 2016 and 2017 and one for which BIO is seeking to make a sale by the end of 2017; - in the Bahamas: an investment of €1.6 million expected to be closed in 2017; - in Guernsey: an investment of 3.6 million euros for which BIO is looking to make a sale by the end of 2017. Moreover, it does not seem appropriate to me to speak of tax evasion since the income that BIO receives from this entity established in the Bahamas is taxable in Belgium without BIO being able to claim the deduction of permanently taxed income or the exemption of taxes on capital gains, given the status of tax haven of the Bahamas. BIO invests in investment funds that, in turn, invest these resources in local companies. The income generated by such enterprises is taxable in the developing countries concerned. In addition, investment funds receive dividends or interest or any capital gains on exits. Such income is often subject to tax, in particular in the form of a discount, in the country of origin. When these revenues are then distributed to investors, including BIO, they constitute income in their own right, taxable according to the tax laws to which the investors concerned are subject, in this case the Belgian tax laws in respect of BIO. As such, the revenues from CaseIF II are taxed, as are dividends and capital gains from its direct holdings. BIO reported the following income for fiscal years 2013, 2014 and 2015 relating to investments in the three states concerned and for the overall taxable base: - in 2013, the Cayman Islands, EUR 808 824; the Bahamas, EUR 3,415; - in 2014, the Cayman Islands, EUR 525 479, the Bahamas, EUR 25 922; - in 2015, the Cayman Islands, 11 524 euros and the Bahamas, 75 586 euros. No income has been reported for Guernsey as the investment fund in question is still in the investment phase and therefore does not yet generate income.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u13	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, first of all, thank you for the transparency you have shown and for the figures you have given. I heard your argument that it is necessary to invest through the Bahamas because of the geographical proximity of the South American societies concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u14	That was in time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u15	But I'm wondering about Guernsey. It is an Anglo-Norman island and I do not believe that there are European companies that would benefit from this type of investment. Therefore, this argument is not valid in this case. In any case, there was a magisterial mistake in the head of BIO, it was to have believed that one could invest through tax havens. Fortunately, today this error has been corrected. I am pleased to hear you say that you will harden the terms of the management contract. That's great news. But it's a shame we have to get to this. It was a masterful mistake and it must never be made again. I come to my substantive objection. BIO's goal is first and foremost to make sustainable development through investments in companies. Of course, these investments can be profitable. But the primary objective must be development and then, eventually, profitability; not the other way round. Profitability is a possible consequence of investment in sustainable development projects, but should not be the primary reason for investment. In any case, we Greens will remain very attentive to maintaining this primacy of development over performance in the context of future policies led by BIO.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u16	Mrs Grovonius' question was postponed at her request.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u17	Mr Minister, recently 11.11.11 published his annual report on Belgian development cooperation policy, and I noticed two points that I would like to raise. It is clear that 11.11.11 does not agree with the way things are going about underutilizing the overall budget for development cooperation, and we also find that worrying, especially when it is so structurally planned. For 2015, this is the case with the not small amount of EUR 195 million, which should normally have benefited several projects and programmes. As a party, we also find it problematic how this way of dealing with budgets jeopardises our reliability. Now organisations and countries will decide whether Belgium will keep its own financial promises if it comes to it. This is in line with the first question put by my two fellow Members on what you do with the resources you do not use. The second point that emerges from this report is that, despite your reforms already carried out, so much money was spent in Belgium last year. According to the reports, 12% of the budget for development cooperation in Belgium would be spent instead of in our partner countries, mainly because of the reorientation of the budget towards reception of refugees. Of course, we are in favour of good care for people on the run, but we are asking ourselves that this money should come from the development cooperation budget. Moreover, I had to read with a harsh feeling that it is partly because of this that Belgium itself is the largest beneficiary of Belgian development cooperation. That can't be the intention. I am also thinking of the message that we are sending to our partner countries and the distribution of the budget in times of savings. Minister, what is the reason for this systematic annual underutilisation? Is that part of a constructive plan or is that a form of saving? Is that what happened in 2016? We must be more alert when discussing the budget. I also have a question about the use of the resources of development cooperation. To what extent will your reforms ensure that more money from the budget will be spent effectively in partner countries rather than in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u18	Mr President, Minister, my question concerns the same 11.11.11 annual report. As an established civil society organisation, 11.11.11 can speak with some weight each year. At the same time, we must not forget that 11.11.11 also presents itself as an organisation with a political agenda. Some elements do spring from the recent annual report. There is an underutilisation of EUR 609 million throughout the legislative period, of which 11.11.11 suggests that this would be a saving. There is a comment by the Court of Auditors, which also talks about underutilisation, but the amounts are not the same. A thorn in the eye of 11.11.11 is also the 12 % ODA that goes to the reception of refugees in our country. 11.11.11 considers that this money should not be spent in development cooperation, although the OECD indicates that this is possible. I have the following questions. What are the correct figures? The numbers of 11.11.11? The numbers from the Court of Auditors? Any other numbers? If there is underutilisation, how can we possibly limit it in the future? What is your position on the figure of 11.11.11, which is an underutilisation of 609 million? What further efforts can we possibly make in this respect? What is the overall percentage of the ODA that stays in our country, for refugee reception, but also for the North Service and the management and personnel costs of governmental and non-governmental organisations? What proportion is reserved for aid to refugees? What is your position, Minister, on ODA expenditure in Belgium, in relation to the statement that the real ODA should contribute to sustainable development in developing countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u19	Mr Minister, my question concerns the same report. I am concerned about two elements in that. Firstly, the decline in resources in 2015, especially for the DGD. This is a decrease of as much as 17%. This also means that, overall, we are finding it increasingly difficult to reach the percentage included in the coalition agreement, namely 0,7%. We are, of course, in general in a saving cycle. Development cooperation is also doing its part there. Secondly, development cooperation is becoming increasingly eroded and fragmented across other departments. Policy can also be pursued around this point. Hence my questions. Is the downward spiral a trend that will continue in 2015? We shall, of course, come back to that in the budgetary negotiations. What about the fragmentation and use of resources of development cooperation in other departments? What is the state of play as regards underutilisation? Is that a deliberate additional saving, or is it real, because of the fact that certain projects are not being launched or implemented? As I said, the biggest losers are governmental and multilateral cooperation. I'm surprised. How do you explain that choice? Will the resources for the Belgian Food Security Fund be further guaranteed in the future, given the current savings?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u20	Mr President, there is first and foremost a difference between the ODA and the budget for development cooperation. There are a number of things that the ODA can count, but which are therefore not necessarily from the budgets for development cooperation. If more is spent on the reception of refugees, for example through the Fedasil budget, then the ODA increases. Therefore, this does not mean that less money is spent on development cooperation. In Belgium there is a budget for development cooperation. There is a budget for organisations like Fedasil that can fluctuate on the basis of needs, but the ODA calculation is not just about development cooperation. In some countries that is different. In Sweden, for example, one determines how much percent one will turn on for the ODA. If we are forced to spend more on the reception of refugees, then the amount spent on development cooperation will be reduced. There is the system of communicating vessels, but not in our country. As a result, in Sweden, for example, the largest partner country is the city of Gothenburg. This city has received many people and in the area of the ODA that is the largest partner country. In our country, that is not at all the case. In my view, the report of 11.11.11 is not correct on this point. My budget and Fedasil's budget are not communicating vessels; it is not so that what comes with one is deducted from the other. These are two separate budgets that are not linked. In 2015, Belgium's total ODA amounted to €1.7 billion, of which 59% came from the Cooperation budget and 12% from the Fedasil budget. This represented 0.42 per cent of gross national income. In 2016, Belgium's ODA relative to gross national income will increase slightly to 0.44%, again falling to 0.42% in 2017 as a result of the fiscal consolidation policy. The current government has set itself ambitious budgetary targets. All departments, including the Department of Development Cooperation, should contribute to this. During the formation of the government, with a view to the necessary control of expenditure, it was decided to make a linear increase in development cooperation, in particular from EUR 150 million in 2015 to EUR 270 million in 2019. During the preparation of the 2017 budget, the government decided to make an additional saving of 25 million euros on the budget of the Government Development Cooperation. Moreover, that amount is reported on the operation of Delcredere and is therefore a saving that, to start with, does not affect the ODA. Delcredere is somewhat on the side of development cooperation. This additional saving does not really affect the functioning of our partner countries and partner organisations. In January 1991, the Ministerial Committee on External Relations approved a restructuring loan for the National Delcredere Service, which had fallen into bad papers due to the debt crisis in the developing countries. The plan provided for a sale by the State at a discount of 50% of the debt owed by Delcredere to a number of developing countries. The financing of the operation was secured by a loan contracted by Delcredere on behalf of the State. The federal government would pay 19.6 million euros a year for 22 years. The payment is provisionally centralised through the development cooperation budget. There are still two discs of 19.6 million euros to be settled. In March 2012, the Council of Ministers decided to postpone payment of the next disc until 2016-207. This will not happen now, so that the additional savings of EUR 25 million, as decided, will be fully realised on the non-repayment of these discs in 2017. The additional savings will therefore have no impact on the development policy that I wish to pursue. One of the main points I set out at the beginning of this legislative period was to seek more efficient management of resources in our development cooperation. Together with the savings measures envisaged by the government in the government agreement, a strategy was developed to minimise the impact on the local population. A critical review of the existing envelopes of government cooperation allowed for the reworking of slow-moving programmes or programmes which were not fully committed. First of all, we have endorsed programmes which have either produced little results or have been considerably delayed. This method has allowed to minimise the impact on the local population. These measures form part of a more global approach towards greater efficiency and effectiveness, as well as the fact that interventions are in principle no longer prolonged in duration and that the balances of closed interventions are returned to the Belgian Treasury. In addition to these savings, the government makes a number of agreements each year on underutilisation of government budgets. Each department should contribute to this. Those are not decisions I am making, but government decisions taken jointly by the four government parties. Underutilisation is never desirable but sometimes necessary, especially at times when budgetary resources are limited. Last year, in 2015, an underutilisation of EUR 187.5 million was imposed, which corresponds to the figures of the Court of Auditors. This is part of the government's budget layout and implementation. The underutilisation will be significantly lower in 2016 than in 2015. The exact amount will be fixed only after the end of the financial year. Agreements on underutilisation are made each year during the budget format. That was also the case in the previous legislatures. Where 11.11.11 draws the estimate of the total underutilisation of 609 million during this legislature, I do not know. You should ask them this question. It is true that the 2015 and 2016 budget cuts are primarily due to governmental cooperation and multilateral cooperation. However, the operational budget for BTC was kept at EUR 180 million. The multilateral cooperation is mainly concerned with the redeployment of the contributions to the World Bank by extending the duration of these contributions from three years to nine years. Humanitarian aid was fully safeguarded in view of the enormous needs in this area. Nor was it saved on non-governmental cooperation, given the multiannual financing decided by my predecessor. I have chosen to honour these commitments in order to ensure legal and budgetary stability for non-governmental and institutional actors for the period 2015-2016. Finally, I come to the Belgian Food Security Fund. The government has indeed confirmed in the preparation of the 2017 budget that the Belgian Food Security Fund will be abolished in the financial year 2017. In the context of an integrated policy, bringing together as much as possible all the instruments of Belgian development policy to mutually strengthen each other, the integration of the food security theme into the government cooperation programme is preferable to the financing of separate food security programmes. Dedicating a separate fund to food security runs counter to such integrated policies. The Fund's appropriations will be transferred to limited appropriations in the Development Cooperation budget. Given that food security is an important problem in most of our partner countries, I have asked for sufficient attention to be paid to this problem in the preparation of new cooperation programmes and, if necessary, to integrate food security into the cooperation programmes. This has been done in the new development programmes that I signed in Mali and Niger in June 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and for the figures. We will return to the issue during the budget discussion, as 2016 has not yet been concluded. You state that the previous government has also used the under-utilisation, with the money returning to the big pot. In fact, that is also a form of savings. You note that all governments and all ministers are doing so and that this is a government decision. However, the opposition cannot accept this. After all, it is a form of saving. You will have to ensure that the under-utilisation of all the resources agreed in the context of savings to subsidise projects or NGOs and multilateral organisations is as low as possible. After all, there is already a form of saving and that means that a second round of savings is actually being completed. You referred to the funds used for refugees. Do I understand correctly that these resources do not come from the overall package of development cooperation? In the affirmative, there is something strange about the calculation on the basis of the report of 11.11.11, because it shows that the resources come from development cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u22	11.11.11 is wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u23	We will then sit at the table with 11.11.11 and see whether we need to deepen the matter further. The resources for the reception of refugees must continue to be used. The two species must not be mixed. I do not have the documents, but I believe that there has also been a call from the European Union in this context. As a result, I made the link that development cooperation funds could be used for the reception of refugees. I think we should look at that more closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I have another idea for the future. In the budget, there is an item entitled "Belgium, multilateral and undetermined'. That is very unclear to me. Perhaps the fellow Members of this House will understand that better. That's such a big and diverse whole. Perhaps it would be interesting to separate these matters more clearly in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u25	Minister, I can clearly hear you say that there are incorrect data in the report of 11.11.11. It is good to know that you consider that data to be incorrect. I propose that we return to a number of issues during the budget negotiations. That is the best forum for a debate on this issue. Of course, there is always the question of whether the 0,7% is a real fact. Maybe we should talk about that. Can we ever achieve that, as we find that the percentage is always falling? Then what is real? What can we achieve? That's definitely worth a debate. Has the underutilisation already been established for the coming years, or is it fixed at a certain point in time again and again? That's not entirely clear to me. At what point is the underutilisation determined?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u26	A global amount is agreed. In any case, in each budget, an amount of 100 is entered, with different types of expenditure. One can never spend more than 100; but spending exactly 100 is not that simple. It's like filling a bowl; it's never completely filled either because it's filled with pieces, with projects. There is a great deal of underutilisation anyway, and there is the principle of caution. In some departments a number of things are not actually spent because they are not realized. This is often the case in the field of development cooperation, because there are often difficulties in implementation. Often they have good intentions, but they are not carried out for a number of reasons. I sometimes get the impression that there is a little hypocrisy in the room: everyone knows how underutilisation works, every party in the government knows how it works. A global amount is fixed and then a kind of intuitive division between departments follows. I don't think I'm bareing the crown with that, everyone knows that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u27	It is not about hypocrisy, the question is whether there is a fixed amount for development cooperation. Over the years, we can see what percentage is coming back every year and what is real. I have also experienced it myself: certain projects are not being started or not being carried out. In any case, there is always a real amount. That should not be viewed as abnormal or as yet another saving. That can be made clear. Of course, this element can be taken into account. If savings are possible, we should not be hypocritical about that. The question is whether this is the same every year, or whether it is swinging hard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u28	Mrs. Grovonius is sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u29	In Congo, too, presidential elections are announcing themselves which are not obvious. The organization of that election is like a soap opera. In August, the CENI declared that it was unable to organise presidential elections there because of the lack of resources. A dialogue followed with the conclusion that it was impossible to organise elections before 2018 and that there would be a transitional figure. In the meantime, however, there are still cooperation programmes in the field of development cooperation. In your strategy paper, you say you follow the more for more approach. The challenge is, of course, the reorientation of resources. We are shredding our resources over new domains, perhaps at the expense of existing domains in which we have built expertise. For example, we have invested a lot of money in the development of rural roads in Congo. However, we no longer invest in the maintenance and consolidation of these roads. Is that even possible today? What about the reorientation of these resources? Can you explain how the Belgian DGD and BTC section in Kinshasa, the Belgian NGOs and other Belgian organisations active in the Congo assess the current situation? What is your own assessment of the current situation in Congo regarding the presidential elections and the general situation on the ground? What position do you defend on behalf of Belgium within the EU and within the international community? We are still seen as a sort of broker in the area of political relations with Congo. What is the European position on this matter? In which direction and in which sectors is further investment being made in development cooperation? In which direction does the reorientation go? Which sectors could be reduced in the field of development cooperation? Are there ongoing discussions between Belgium and/or the EU and the regime regarding the reorientation of resources?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u30	I am very concerned about the climate of violence in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Following the violence on 19 and 20 September 2016, the Belgian Government called for an immediate independent investigation. Belgium asks that the individual responsibility of all those involved in these facts be examined. A solution to the crisis can only be found in a peaceful way, with inclusive dialogue in accordance with the Constitution. Belgian NGOs have consistently argued for respect for the Constitution and stress that a democratic and peaceful change of power is essential to safeguard the early democracy and the hurtful peace in the DRC. In the conclusions of the European Council of 17 October 2016, the European Union is also deeply concerned about the political situation in the DRC. The violence of 19 and 20 September 2016 has exacerbated the deadlock in the DRC. The European Union assumes that the political crisis in the DRC can only be resolved if all political actors commit themselves publicly and explicitly to respect the current Constitution, in particular the limit on the number of presidential term of office and a substantive, inclusive, impartial and transparent dialogue. The EU underlines that the situation is urgent and that it is important that all major political movements and civil society, including the Congo Bishops' Conference, take part in that process. In order to create a favourable climate for dialogue and elections, the Congolese Government must make a clear commitment to ensure respect for human rights and the rule of law and not try to make Congolese justice an instrument of its own interests. The large number of arrests following the events of 19 and 20 September raises serious questions concerning the course of justice and the will to ensure independent justice. The EU urges all actors, both government and opposition, to reject the use of force. Belgium has played an important role in establishing European decision-making around the DRC. Belgium recently decided to halve the maximum duration of visas for Congolese diplomats to six months. The other EU countries have agreed to do the same by aligning visa policy for holders of diplomatic passports from Congo. Among other things, it is to the credit of the Belgian Government that there is consensus between the EU Member States and the United States on the need for a more inclusive dialogue, elections in 2017 and the possibility of sanctions. The DRC's governmental development cooperation is concentrated in the technical and vocational education, health, agriculture and rural development sectors. These priorities have not been changed. I have also used this context to critically review the entire government portfolio, as I explained just now in response to another question. The renovation of rural roads is a good example. The BTC has already renovated over 7 500 km of such roads for a budget of several tens of millions of euros. The Congolese Government had committed itself to guaranteeing the maintenance of the repaired roads, but has not yet released any euro cents for this purpose. As the Congolese Government does not comply with its commitments, I do not see why the BTC should continue to renovate these roads. A study carried out by the BTC shows that, without maintenance, the repaired roads are again unusable after two years. If the Congolese Government does not assume its responsibilities and does not comply with its commitments, I do not see why the Belgian Government would also pour tens of millions of euros into a bottomless pit.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u31	Minister, I understand that there has been no reorientation of resources for the rest, so that it is only about those rural roads. All right, thank you for your answer. Of course, it remains a concern. That will evolve until December 20th. Then we will have to look at what direction we are heading, just like you did with Burundi. Whether or not a decision will be taken will therefore be prosecuted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u32	Question No 14026 by Mr Benoît Piedboeuf is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u33	Deputy Prime Minister, last March, we were exchanging in this committee about controversial projects funded by the World Bank. However, we learn that according to the report of the organization Inclusive Development International (IDI), which the Bank indirectly helped to co-finance 41 coal-related projects in Asia through its private sector branch, the International Finance Corporation (IFC). More specifically, the subsidiary would have provided loans to developing country banks and investment funds, which would then have been used to finance these polluting projects, including the construction of a power plant in Bangladesh. This is in complete contradiction to what the Bank promised in 2013. It had then announced that it would no longer support coal-based development projects only in "rare circumstances" where there would be no other energy alternatives. It should be recalled that the World Bank should be the main global donor for sustainable development projects. As such, it is one of the first recipients of Belgian multilateral aid, as it receives 130 million euros annually from us. This amount represents more than the totality of the funding provided by the State to all Belgian non-governmental development cooperation actors, of which NGOs are of course part. Hence, minister, my questions. Could you please tell me what specific instructions you have given to the official of the FPS Finances representing Belgium within this institution – and we have even heard there – to stop these financings totally contrary to the development objectives assigned to this institution? Is this umpteenth episode likely to make sure that you move on to the issue and that the Directorate-General for Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Aid (DGD) eventually becomes the only interlocutor to represent Belgian interests in this forum, instead of a representative of the FPS Finance, as is currently the case?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u34	Mr Hellings, as regards the financing of coal-fired power plants by the International Finance Corporation, I would like to point out that my policy is precisely to support everyone's access to sustainable energy. That is why we are advocating internationally for more investment in renewable energy. This includes replacing coal with clean energy sources such as sun, wind, water, etc. This view is clearly reflected in my administration's strategic note, "Environment in Belgian development cooperation", which was widely shared with the FPS Finances. I was able to speak about this very recently to the Executive Director of Belgium at the World Bank, Mr Frans Godts, who also came to parliament for an exchange of views. The contributions of Belgian Cooperation to the World Bank are intended exclusively for the International Development Association (IDA) and not directly for the IFC. There is therefore no Belgian financing involved. As regards the supervision within the federal government of the World Bank, an important step was taken on Friday, 7 October 2016, with the approval, by the Council of Ministers, of a draft royal decree amending the methods of application of Belgian supervision with, in particular, the World Bank Group. The Ministers of Finance and Development Cooperation will now share their responsibilities. To date, this jurisdiction has been vested solely in the Minister of Finance. This shared responsibility is logical since the World Bank is the main multilateral partner of Belgian development policy and the world's leading international development player. To highlight the role of Belgian Development Cooperation, the Minister for Development Cooperation will be appointed alternate governor for Belgium to the World Bank institutions. To date, the National Bank's Governor has assumed the role. From 1 July 2017, the Minister will also appoint Belgian representatives to the International Development Association, which is important to be able to influence its policy through our development policy. Development Cooperation will now have the full competence of the African Development Bank and the African Development Fund. This choice is logical since the Belgian development policy focuses on Africa. The Asian Development Bank, the Asian Development Fund and the Inter-American Development Bank will also be the responsibility of Finance. The finance and development cooperation administrations will jointly defend Belgian interests with the World Bank, notably by participating in negotiations on replenishments and capital increases. This cooperation on an equal footing should make it possible to take full advantage of the complementary competences of the two administrations: finance brings financial expertise and cooperation provides know-how in international development policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u35	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I am pleased to hear that Belgium is not directly linked to the financing of the IFC and, therefore, indirectly, to financing of electricity generation by carbonised means. Nevertheless, Belgium must continue in such forums as this, to plead, as you have said, for green energies in all dimensions and in all policies of the World Bank. Let's keep going, even if we're not connected. Compared to the logical step that you were talking about, namely, a 50/50 division of power at the World Bank between, on the one hand, the FPS Finances, and, on the other hand, your administration, this is a first development that I welcome. We were talking, in a previous exchange, about the primacy of development over profitability, this is the same problem here. The primacy must be that of development, namely cooperation. Eventually, finances support their financial expertise, why not. But the World Bank is dealing with multilateral financing projects, and it is Development Cooperation that must be in the cockpit and under manoeuvre. Finance can support, but must not have the primary role. I still salute the stage you call "logical", which I see, for my part, as a first step.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u36	Minister, October 1 is the International Day for Older People. In a recently published report, the UN has identified the global ageing or ageing of the population as both a reason to celebrate and a challenge. In recent years, the attention of many civil society organisations and NGOs to older people has also grown within the 2030 Agenda, which was adopted a year ago, focusing on older people, in particular the need to give them a louder voice in the social debate, as they are not always heard. Firstly, Leaving No One Behind is synonymous with the 2030 Agenda and therefore logically also covers older people. In what way does Belgium focus on global ageing in its cooperation with partner countries? What initiatives will you take within your domain to achieve, in particular, objective 1.2 of the SGDs, in particular the development of social protection floors, including pensions, by 2030? Secondly, what position do you defend on behalf of Belgium in relation to the UN's Open Ended Working Group on Ageing? In what way does Belgium want to take part in the realization of the International Plan of Action on Ageing? Thirdly, what initiatives will you take to implement the WHO Action Plan on A Global Strategy and Plan of Action on Ageing and Health in the partner countries of Belgian Development Cooperation? What have you done about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u37	Belgium follows closely the global demographic evolution, including through our cooperation with the United Nations Population Front, which focuses on population issues and provides technical assistance to developing countries. Although it can be expected that the number of older people will increase in our partner countries over the next 15 years, they do not yet have an ageing population and rather face a high birth rate. However, this does not mean that older people should not be given attention in our partner countries. Social protection must also be provided for them. Belgium has consistently stressed that social protection is a human right that must be guaranteed throughout the life cycle. However, it is up to the national authorities of each country to develop, implement and finance social protection policies. Belgian Development Cooperation is not part of the UN's Open Ended Working Group on Ageing. In view of the budget lines, our country is obliged to make choices. In the area of demographic evolution, I focus on the issues of sexual and reproductive rights and planning. Belgium shall support partner countries in implementing a national strategy plan for health care. The needs of the elderly deserve special attention if they often rely on health care for the prevention and treatment of chronic diseases. However, it is up to partner countries to make strategic choices within their own political, cultural, social and economic context. Belgium prefers to support national strategies aimed at developing a health system that provides good and accessible care to all sections of the population. A universal health care coverage or universal healthcare coverage is an important tool.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u38	Thank you for your reply, Minister. It is a new theme, which is traditionally not dealt with in development cooperation, because people in developing countries are getting less old. However, there is a new trend. It would be good if you were working on the strategy paper or position paper on social protection. We can come back to that in the discussion of that note. I suspect that it will be in preparation, following the resolution on social protection, which was adopted here in Parliament. Perhaps at that time we can look at the direction in which you are going in the field of social protection floors, which are put forward by the ILO in Convention 202. In what way does Belgian Development Cooperation deal with this? It was a question for Parliament to give greater attention to health, unemployment and pensions issues and to see how we can shape them in the context of social security in developing countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u39	Minister, I was pleased to hear how, at the special session of the United Nations plenary session on migration, you advocated genuine international solidarity. This is also the only constructive and positive way to deal with the challenges associated with the global flow of refugees and migration. I also noticed that in New York, but also earlier, you stressed the importance of education and the investment in education as a preventive measure to avoid new refugee and migratory flows. Moreover, this can also help to prevent young people from being tempted by extremist groups in refugee camps. Investing in education is also part of the sustainable development goals agreed last year, in which access to education is emphasised as a crucial objective. Investing in education should not be seen merely as a means of preventing migration, but as a global objective for sustainable human development. You may also have read the recent report by the UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, on the challenges for education and child refugees. It is only there that it becomes clear how great the challenge we are facing as an international community. We see that 50% of all refugee children have access to education, compared to 90% of all children worldwide. There is unequal access that is systematically getting worse as the age of the children and young people in question progresses. There is also the sad figure of 1% that only higher education can attend. UNHCR estimates that an average of 12 000 additional classrooms and 20 000 additional teachers will be needed to turn the tide. That is why I would like to ask you a number of questions. What additional efforts will Belgium make to improve access to education to which these child refugees are entitled? To what extent will Belgium also coordinate its efforts with long-term programmes of multilateral organisations such as UHNCR?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u40	Mr President, Belgium provides financial support for various initiatives that focus on improving the situation of refugee children, including access to education. Belgium provides additional funding of €2.5 million for the UNICEF programme in Jordan for the period 2016-2017. The programme invests in the future of children and young people affected by the Syrian crisis. In Makani Centers, Syrian refugees, children and young people are given access to quality education, protection and civil engagement opportunities. Belgium also finances UNICEF's humanitarian fund in Syria. The contribution amounts to EUR 10 million. The UN Organisation for Palestinian Refugees, UNRWA, in turn focuses on the many children of Palestinian refugees who do not attend school or have limited access to education. UNRWA aims to increase the quality and quantity of education for 314 900 children and young people. Belgium grants the programme with EUR 5 million. In order to support the programmes of multilateral organisations such as UNICEF and UNRWA, Belgium offers its humanitarian partners the opportunity to develop and implement long-term actions. This will allow organisations to tackle the long-term crises in greater depth.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your information. I would argue that, despite the savings we know, we should be able to sustain our efforts. I know that you also have an eye for the fact that education is very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u42	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, Africa's development aid must be based on strict criteria that respect the rights of the people. Development funds have committed themselves to respecting, inter alia, the guidelines on free and informed consent of development funds. Feronia, a Canadian palm oil company, 80% owned by European and American development finance institutions, seems to be forgetting this commitment. It seems to pressure local communities to sign specifications enabling them to exploit land that they would grant without the consent of the populations in question, in the absence of written documents attesting to the ownership of the populations. Despite the protests of many customary chiefs in the Yahuma district, where 90% of the plantations in the company are located, Feronia would continue to take over the land. In order to impose its terms of reference, the company would have used, in vain, a delegation from the provincial and elected authorities, with the help of the Congolese authorities. Deputy Prime Minister, if I ask you today, it is because, among the development finance institutions that invest in Feronia, BIO, the Belgian Development Cooperation Agency, is mentioned. It would have invested EUR 11 million in this large company, while its mission is to support small and micro-enterprises. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, can you enlighten us on this? Can you tell us how Feronia works with regard to land grabbing? Can you tell us whether or not BIO is participating, for an amount of EUR 11 million, in a large Canadian company? Does that match his core business? If so, does it ask Feronia to respect the principles and guidelines for taking into account the informed consent of the populations concerned? Otherwise, how do you intend to reorient BIO's investment choices in Congo?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u43	Mr.President, Minister, as Mr.Flahaux just said, on December 23, 2015, BIO provided funding to the Canadian company Feronia for a total of eleven million euros. This company is an agrobusiness specialized in palm oil production, to return to another dimension of the issue. The exploitation of this oil systematically rhymes with deforestation around the world. This is a real economic and ecological problem for Indonesia and Malaysia, two palm oil-producing countries. This industry could now threaten the Congolese forests, since Feronia is not only exploiting the forests in the Congo, but also exploiting its workers. It underpays them: they have to live on a salary of less than $2 a day, which is insufficient in relation to the cost of living in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Finally, new information published in a recent report by a European NGO indicates that Feronia has diverted millions of euros to a company or companies linked to a Congolese official. Minister, given the nature of Feronia's activities and their environmental impacts in Congo, how do you explain that BIO is financing this company? I would remind you that BIO's objective is to finance sustainable development. How is it that BIO supports a company that exploits its workforce in disregard of basic social rights? What measures are you planning to take to remedy this situation? What structural provisions do you intend to take to ensure that such cases do not happen again and that BIO respects the social and environmental tasks assigned to it by the law and the cooperation agreement between the State and society?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u44	Mr. Chairman, on May 26, 2015, BIO's Board of Directors approved an $11 million loan to Feronia. The British Development Finance Institution CDC owns 67% of the latter's shares. Its German and Dutch counterparts have also granted loans to PHC (Plantation & Oilerie du Congo). Feronia's objective is to revive agriculture in the DRC, in particular by rehabilitating the ruined historic plantations. BIO's investment strategy foresees that it plays a leading role in the development of the private sector in Central Africa by focusing on agriculture. Feronia, which operates three palm oil plantations, owns 206 land titles that include all the land on which the company operates, including the Yahuma district. Out of a total of 107 000 hectares in concession, Feronia holds 27,000 hectares in operation. In addition, it maintains possession of all required title to the land in operation. All of these were subject to thorough due diligence prior to the approval of the loan granted by BIO and the other DFIs and are available at Feronia's London and PHC offices in Kinshasa. In the context of the DRC, Feronia's contribution is significant in terms of food security and economic development. It created some 10,000 jobs, 8,000 full-time equivalents (3,800 permanent employees and 4,200 seasonal contracts). In addition, thousands of indirect jobs have been created in the region, where there are few other employment opportunities. For permanent employees and their families, Feronia supports housing, education and health care. In addition, it has committed to transforming all seasonal contracts into permanent contracts by 2021. To date, the company has provided 1,900 kilometres of road, 3,700 employee homes, 94 schools, 4 hospitals, 5 health centres and 17 clinics. In addition, Feronia is responsible for the development of water sources and wells. The DRC is a major consumer of palm oil. Despite the significant potential of local production, the DRC currently imports 75 per cent of its palm oil requirements. Feronia is helping to ensure that this food product can be produced locally and that local communities have access to palm oil at lower local prices than imported oil. Feronia is not intended to export its production but rather to help reduce import dependence. With the support of the IFCs, a "Social and Environmental Aspects and Governance" Committee, called the JIS Committee, was established in April 2014. It reports directly to the Feronia Board of Directors and is responsible for monitoring Feronia's compliance with its social and environmental performance commitments and monitoring the implementation of the environmental and social action plan. This plan was designed with BFIs and investors, including BIO. Feronia meets the minimum wage by taking into account the thirteenth and fourteenth months. From 1 January 2017, Feronia will meet the minimum wage without taking into account these thirteenth and fourteenth months. It is true that the minimum wage is set at $1.75 a day by the Congolese authorities. The charge of a misappropriation of $40 million, paid to a close friend of President Kabila, has not yet been proved. It is true that a former Congolese ambassador known to be close to the president is involved in the creation in 2009 of Feronia. Two transactions involving him could be traced. This person rented a house in Kinshasa in Feronia. This lease has been terminated. This person was an administrator of Feronia for four years. In all, it received €43,000 for this function. The DFIs, including BIO, demanded and obtained the withdrawal of this person from Feronia's board of directors as a precondition for its intervention. I'm following this file very closely. My Chief of Staff and my Local Private Sector Support Advisor met with Feronia CEO on Monday, November 7. The file will be discussed at the next BIO Board of Directors. A government commissioner, whom I have appointed with BIO, will report to me. So far, I have no verifiable and verified evidence that leads me to believe that BIO should withdraw from this file. I have read the various charges and it is now important that those who accuse bring evidence. If it turns out, in the weeks or months to come, that these accusations are indeed well founded, I will ask BIO to reconsider its support for this company. Finally, let me tell you some of the beneficial results of BIO's involvement in this file. I've already told you about the environmental and social action plan. In addition, the headquarters of the parent company of Feronia RDC, a majority shareholder of PHC, is located in the Cayman Islands. BIO's Board of Directors has laid down as a precondition for a possible loan the transfer of this seat. Finally, Feronia decided to transfer this seat to Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u45	Deputy Prime Minister, I am very pleased with your answer. Our intention, Mr Hellings and I, was to give a light on Feronia's situation. You have been very clear on several points. I also thank you for the recent meetings with Feronia, in addition to the transfer of the headquarters of the Cayman Islands to Brussels. What interests me in what you said is that we do not compete with other countries because production does not yet cover, far from it, local consumption. The more you can be in the short circuit, the better. So I think it's a good thing. The same applies to the integration of the education (schools) and health (hospitals) dimension as well as the problem of wages – still a little weak but which seems to improve both in terms of the type of contracts and in terms of the level of wages. I'm also glad you didn't stop at the answer you just made. What seems to me also fundamental in your remarks is the fact that there are many documents written for title to property. I was being called into this. However, it seemed to me that BIO had to support small and micro-enterprises first. There, we're a long way from the count, given the area covered. In any case, the subject has already been largely decriminalized.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u46	Minister, with respect to the charges, I am pleased to hear that an investigation is under way, that the Commissioner of the Government to BIO will be able to shed some light on the charges. It's about making the light. On this, we can't foreshadow. You have taken the necessary steps. In relation to Feronia's business, one of the clear objectives of BIO, of Development Cooperation, is the development of family and food farming. This is indeed an agrobusiness. You've talked about 27,000 hectares in operation; it's huge and we're far from the few hectares that are suitable for family farming that aims to meet the needs. I hear that the needs for palm oil are important in the Congo. Nevertheless, it is not the economic model expected of Belgian Cooperation and of society that is supposed to invest in these micro-enterprises. This is a big company. There is the dimension of food security, which you consider to be fulfilled; there is also the whole environmental dimension. Palm oil, especially on such scales, is also deforestation and a series of environmental impacts. These are monocultures, we are far from the agroforestry model or such systems. You also talked about roads and crèches. Is that the role of such a society? I think it would be better for the State to carry out these functions. Finally, I am pleased to hear that the company's headquarters are emerging from a tax haven to come to a democratic country, in this case Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u47	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u48	Depends on who.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u49	At my house, we were told that it is always the tax haven for big fortunes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u50	Feronia may be a great fortune.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u51	We know he wasn't paying a tax. He had a company in Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u52	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u53	But we don't lose anything! It's Mr. Noels who calculated that it costs us 70 million, but it's not fair. There is no tax in Belgium. Excuse me!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u54	Everyone's tired, you can see that nobody's slept! So I will end by saying that what matters is not where the company is, but what it does. Here, in this case, what it does raises questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u55	Minister, at the beginning of last month, Hurricane Matthew hit Haiti hard. It has already been made clear in the plenary debate at the United Nations that our country was prepared to establish aid mechanisms if necessary, such as B-FAST. My questions mainly concern the follow-up to the situation. The response of aid organisations to give gifts in support of aid to Haiti and the victims remains very low. More attention should be paid to the situation there. Minister, what role can we play in this from Belgium? I am referring to this question in the medium and long term, because several people have already succumbed to cholera and there is also a fear of spreading that disease. I realise that it is not possible bilaterally to intervene, since we have already chosen our partner countries, but the question remains open as to what is possible through multilateral means or through the support of locally anchored organisations or NGOs engaged in humanitarian aid, both in Belgium and in an international network.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u56	Minister, my question to Minister Reynders in plenary on a possible mission from a team from B-FAST to Haiti was answered negatively. However, the Minister indicated that aid would be provided to Haiti from the budget for development cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u57	That's how it works in the government!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u58	That's why I'm here to ask you if Minister Reynders was wrong. As Mr Van Hoof said, a question was also asked from the UN. Minister, what amounts have been released to support aid to Haiti and what budgets do these amounts come from? Are Belgian NGOs being extra supported for aid to Haiti? The aid after the 2000 earthquake was settled in 2014. Are there any details and any evaluation of the use of these funds?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u59	The federal government plays an important role in aiding Haiti. Almost half of the budget of Belgian humanitarian aid is made available to international organisations and funds before a crisis occurs. These are contributions to the general resources of international humanitarian organisations and contributions to the flexible funds. An essential feature of these resources is that they can be released immediately at the time of a crisis, without many administrative obligations and with the understanding of the organisation to which they are assigned. I agree with you that investments in disaster preparedness are important. However, these require a long-term commitment. Within the Belgian humanitarian strategy, it has been chosen to make as many long-term commitments as possible within the priority areas of humanitarian aid, namely the Great Lakes region, the Sahel, Palestine, Syria and its neighbours. Humanitarian resources must be somewhat concentrated, otherwise the lavage will be thin. Haiti deserves additional investments in disaster preparedness, but looks forward to partners who are historically and culturally close to the country. The DGD's Humanitarian Aid Service monitors the situation in Haiti on an ongoing basis. The service is aware that UNICEF has already raised sufficient funds for water, sanitation and cholera prevention. The department received a request from the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations for its operations in Haiti to mitigate the impact of the hurricane on agricultural areas. A file will be submitted for my signature shortly. This will be a contribution of EUR 3 million. Until the end of 2016, 11 NGO programmes are underway in Haiti, namely ACTEC, APEF, ARES, Broederlijk Delen, Caritas International, Codeart, Entraide et Fraternité, Handicap International, Médecins du Monde, Protos and VIA Don Bosco. For the period 2017-2021, the administration is currently reviewing applications for grants submitted. As for Haiti, nine grant files were submitted. The final report of Haiti's recovery support programme, which is based, among other things, on an independent external evaluation conducted in 2013, includes a section collecting conclusions and lessons learned. The main lesson learned from this is that the focus is not on one-off humanitarian interventions, but rather on interventions that form a coherent whole and are grouped under a programme. In addition, local capacity must be used and strengthened to the maximum extent possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u60	I have no further questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u61	Minister, as the Nigerian Government is gradually recapturing territory on the Boko Haram terrorist movement, the country is facing another threat, famine. About four and a half million people in north-east Nigeria are suffering from a serious food shortage. Only a small part of this was achieved. According to the UN, starvation threatens about 80 000 children. Although Nigeria is not a partner country, it is in a region where we are very active with a number of partner countries. In the meantime, you have already taken action and allocated nine million. Nevertheless, any additional aid for the country and the affected region is welcome. Firstly, what is the current situation on the ground? Can you give me more information on that? Has more people been achieved thanks to our cooperation and the contribution we have made? Secondly, where did the money end up? Is there any provision for additional funding for Nigeria? Thirdly, how will the activities carried out in Nigeria be synchronised with the regional strategy you advocate in your policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u62	There are still areas in the extreme north of Nigeria that remain inaccessible to humanitarian actors. In Northern Nigeria, Cameroon, Chad and Niger, food security remains the first priority for 4.2 million people. In the meantime, the humanitarian response plan has been revised and the total humanitarian emergency budget is estimated at 484 million dollars. At present, only 26% of this plan is covered. Nigeria is not a priority country for Belgian humanitarian development cooperation or humanitarian aid. However, as a result of the crisis in the Lake Chad area, Belgium has decided to support Nigerian refugees in neighbouring countries within a regional approach. As regards Nigeria in particular, the choice of the International Committee of the Red Cross was motivated by the nature of the conflict facing the country. The nine million euros of humanitarian aid promised by Belgium for the Lake Chad region has already been fully settled. The selected humanitarian organisations were therefore already paid for. It is still too early to assess the impact of these resources. The humanitarian budget for 2016 is now fully programmed. It is therefore no longer possible to finance new proposals. My services are following the evolution of the situation on the ground and, if necessary, additional support may be envisaged next year, if the needs justify it and the budget allows it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u63	I have an additional question. We already have a number of partner countries in that region. Is there a possibility of a fifteenth partner country? Given the very difficult situation in Nigeria and the high level of emergency, this is more than just humanitarian aid. I believe that there will be a need for more structural aid in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u64	We are not yet thinking of adding a fifteenth country, but humanitarian aid is possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic532x.u65	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Blanchart's 13454 was converted into a written question.
