ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic529x.u1	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the new Article 433quinquies of the Criminal Code defines trafficking in human beings as "recruiting, transporting, transferring, hosting, welcoming, passing or transferring control of a person for the purpose of exploitation". Areas of exploitation are listed as follows: "exploitation in prostitution or child pornography, exploitation in begging, working conditions contrary to human dignity, removal of organs, commission of a crime or offence against the will of the child" (some cases of theft or trafficking, for example). On the other hand, trafficking in human beings is defined by the new Article 77bis of the Act of 15 December 1980 on aliens as "the act of contributing, in any way whatsoever, either directly or through an intermediary, to the entry, transit or stay of a person who is not a national of a Member State of the European Union on or through the territory of such State, in violation of the law of that State, with a view to obtaining, directly or indirectly, a property advantage." On the basis of this information, Minister, can you tell us how many convictions for trafficking in human beings were handed down in our country in 2014, 2015 and 2016? Is there a trend? Could you give me a breakdown of the offences found between 2014 and 2016 and the sectors exploited, as well as the offences dealt with by the prosecutor's office? What do you think of Myria's 2015 annual report entitled "Trafficking and trafficking in human beings". Closer links" to the interdepartmental coordination unit for combating trafficking in and trafficking in human beings? This request relates, on the one hand, to the adaptation of the status of victims of trafficking in human beings in the context of the revision of the 2008 circular on multidisciplinary cooperation and, on the other hand, to the development of an offer better suited to the needs of the different groups of victims in terms of protection, support and compensation. Has this request already been considered and what initiatives are being taken in favour of victims? Finally, what measures are already being taken or are being prepared to raise awareness among the youth brigades of the local police and the judges of the youth prosecutor's office? Could you explain these actions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic529x.u2	Ms. Chair, Mr.Kir, the Convictions Database indicates a number of convictions for human trafficking of 90 for 2015, 53 for 2014 and 62 for 2013. It should be noted that these figures are based on a June 2016 extraction and are still likely to change, although in a small proportion. These are final convictions. While it is true that in 2015, there is an increase in the number of convictions, caution must be exercised in the interpretation of this increase. The migration crisis can certainly be an explanation, as criminal networks benefit from the crisis in Syria and the region. That said, the trends in terms of convictions will only really be confirmed in the coming years, given the time required for investigations. In the case of trafficking in human beings, over the three years requested, there is an average (94 convictions) without much variation between the three years. The limits of encoding do not allow the exact details of the distribution between the forms of exploitation to be given. Partial figures indicate that there are approximately 60 per cent convictions for sexual exploitation and 40 per cent for economic exploitation. Convictions for exploitation of begging or for forcing the commission of a crime or offence are also regularly handed down, but to a lesser extent. With regard to the protection of victims, the interdepartmental unit met on Monday, 26 September, to discuss an updated version of the multidisciplinary circular on victim orientation. The text was rewritten taking into account the internal assessments of the report of the Council of Europe Expert Group (GRETA) and the observations of Myria, a member of the cell. The text has been approved and is yet to be submitted for signature. In particular, it deals in more detail with the question of Belgian victims or the problem of the exploitation of minors. In this connection and in order to answer your last question, it should be recalled that the joint circular of 15 May 2015 of the College of Prosecutors General and the competent ministers on the investigation and prosecution of trafficking in persons has provided that, from now on, a juvenile prosecutor's office should be systematically invited to the local coordination meetings organized by the reference magistrates in the field of trafficking in human beings. The police services also participate in these meetings. In addition, a dialogue has been initiated with the entities federated by the interdepartmental unit to develop awareness-raising and information initiatives on the exploitation of minors in the sectors that may be affected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic529x.u3	Madam President, first of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his very comprehensive answer. He answered all my questions. However, minister, could you give me an indication of the timing of the new circular? You mentioned the meetings you had with all the actors and a text that will soon be submitted for signature. Could you give me an indication of the timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic529x.u4	We always work as quickly as possible, sir.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic529x.u5	You are very cautious, minister. I still imagine that this text will be submitted by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic529x.u6	I hope so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic529x.u7	Minister, in one of your previous answers you mentioned a tightening up of the legislation on refugee offences, which you have already explained here in the Chamber. You see a possibility in the forfeiture of a car as an independent sentence. Since the confiscation of cars involves substantial sums of money, I was wondering where these funds would go. After the sixth state reform, it was decided to transfer everything that came from traffic to the Regions where the crime was committed. I think there has been a forgetfulness in the special financing act. There are only revenues that come from immediate collections, friendly settlements and criminal penalties. The confiscation of cars is not included. Mr Minister, forfeiture of a car cannot be an independent punishment at the moment. What happens to those proceeds from the payment of forfeited cars? Are they being transferred to the Regions? How much revenue is this annual?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic529x.u8	Mrs Dumery, your question should essentially be addressed to the Minister for Finance. The FPS Finance and, in particular, the administration of the patrimony services and the recipients of non-fiscal recovery shall be responsible for the enforcement of judicial decisions relating to confiscation in criminal matters. The Region cannot claim the proceeds of forfeited vehicles as non-tax revenue. This is clear from Article 2a of the Special Financing Act, which reads as follows: 'Receptions of immediate collections, friendly settlements and criminal penalties connected with infringements of road safety rules, which fall within the competence of the Regions under Article 6 (1) twelfth of the Special Law of 8 August 1980, shall be granted to the Regions according to the place of infringement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic529x.u9	Mr Minister, I will put a question to the Minister for Finance to know whether, if we introduce the confiscation of cars as an independent sentence, that is in line with the article just quoted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic529x.u10	Madam President, Minister, in the Law of 19 March 2010 to promote an objective calculation of maintenance contributions paid by parents for their children, for the first time, the concept of "extraordinary costs' was defined. Until then, this concept existed in the doctrine of law and the rule of law, but not in the law. Since 2010 this has been the case and that is certainly a step in the right direction. Article 203a of the Civil Code states that each parent contributes to the costs for the children. These costs are both the ordinary and the extraordinary. The definition of extraordinary costs in the Civil Code today is as follows: "The exceptional, necessary or unforeseen expenses arising from accidental or unusual events, which exceed the usual budget for the daily maintenance of the child, which, if necessary, served as the basis for determining the maintenance contributions." You will agree with me: a whole mouthful. The definition is not always so clear and certainly interpretable. I had the privilege of being involved in this legislation in 2010 and I acknowledge that we should perhaps have worked more carefully at that time. Today is 2016 and we are six years ahead. Practice has shown that the definition is not workable in practice. Many courts and counters solve the problem by drawing up their own protocol which provides a definition of extraordinary costs. However, one definition is not the other. Each court sort of works in its own way. That is a first problem: what are extraordinary costs? A second problem is that there is no time limit within which the exceptional costs must be indicated. That is an important problem. A third problem is that the way in which these extraordinary costs are to be charged has not been determined anywhere. As a result, there are a lot of discussions between ex-partners, ex-husbands, in connection with these extraordinary costs, and even procedures for our attachment courts about extraordinary costs. Perhaps the President, who is still in practice, will agree with me that there can be huge discussions about this. In this context, I would like to refer to the pending legislative proposal to amend the Civil Code as regards the recovery of extraordinary costs, which proposes that each parent should report the extraordinary costs at least annually to the other parent so that a kind of limitation period is entered. Finally, I also refer to the Commission on Maintenance Contributions, created by the Act of 2010, which is responsible for drawing up recommendations for the budget of maintenance and education costs for children and the respective contributions of each parent. Minister, I have four specific questions. Firstly, do you recognise the problem of defining extraordinary costs? Are you aware of the various protocols used by our courts? Was there a question on that point in order to obtain an overview if necessary? Secondly, what is your position on this? Should a uniform directive be drawn up on exceptional costs or should the law be refined? What is your position on the bill I referred to? Thirdly, is it true that the Commission is working on this and would draw up a first set of directives by January next year? Fourthly, do you recognise the urgent need to work on this issue in view of the many discussions and often also procedures relating to extraordinary costs which can bring one parent to the brink of poverty? I refer to the discussion of Mrs Sleurs' poverty plan this morning in the Committee on Health where this has also been discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic529x.u11	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, I agree with you that the extraordinary costs are indeed a specific and important aspect of the problem of parental maintenance contributions for their child and that an appropriate response must be given as soon as possible. It is for this reason that the Commission has already decided at its meeting of 17 June 2016 to examine this aspect of further investigation, in particular as regards the different practices of the courts regarding the definition of the extraordinary costs and the most frequent difficulties in the relevant disputes. The Committee on Maintenance Contributions then asked the first Presidents of the Courts of First Instance. The replies received are currently being examined by the Committee. On the basis of this analysis, the committee will decide on the useful recommendations that can be proposed in the annual report. The annual report shall be delivered to the Minister of Justice before 31 January each year, in application of Article 1322, Paragraph 1 of the Code of the Court of Justice. The committee was set up with a view to drawing up uniform recommendations. I note that she takes this task to heart and that the extraordinary costs will be one of the first points for which recommendations are being drawn up. The legislative proposal to which you refer contains an interesting measure, but I believe that the committee should first be able to make its recommendations. In the light of these recommendations, legislative changes may then be considered, inter alia in the sense you propose.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic529x.u12	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I am pleased that you acknowledge the problem and say that we need to act quickly. I agree that it is most efficient to wait for that annual report. After all, it will be faster than we think 31 January 2017. The committee that was set up in 2010 has had a difficult start, but I have heard that they are really working intensely now. I expect many useful recommendations to come out of that annual report, but I think that we, as legislators, have a role to play here. I am referring in particular to the limitation period. Today, the law does not say anything about this and there are a lot of discussions and sometimes procedures in this area. Yesterday, I received an e-mail from someone who told me that he suddenly received an extraordinary bill of six years and asked me what to do with it, whether he should pay it. Well, today we have to say that our code of conduct does not really provide for anything. There is something about the five-year limitation period for maintenance fees, but exceptional costs may or may not be included. That depends on the interpretation. Thank you for your answer and I will return to you in February on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic529x.u13	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 14823 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic529x.u14	Madam President, Minister, the Special Inspectorate of Taxes (SII) in Ghent filed a complaint at the end of October with all prosecutors in the country concerning possible money laundering involving 61,546 tax amnesty cases. The total amount of potentially laundered capital could reach more than €36 billion. The approximately 61,000 cases in question have been introduced in the last 12 years during the various tax amnesty campaigns. According to the ISI, no taxes or fines were paid on capital in a significant part of these tens of thousands of regularizations, only interest and income being reported. The complaint also states, according to the press, that "intermediates" who have assisted their clients in introducing these regularization cases could be prosecuted as perpetrators or accomplices of money laundering activities. It is now up to the justice system to deal with this complaint. Minister, can you tell me what action this complaint has been taken by the courts? [[Has any of the investigating judge(s) been or have they been referred to the case file?]] Who is responsible for handling this complaint? At first glance, does the justice system consider that there are reasons to prosecute? If so, will there be a priority classification of the files with a view to their processing according to their seniority or the size of the amounts concerned? If so, will additional resources be made available at the justice level to deal with these cases? I've already asked you about tax judges. What are the next deadlines for processing this file?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic529x.u15	Madam President, Mr Gilkinet, the Prosecutor General of Brussels, whose portfolio of powers includes the fight against tax fraud, has informed me that the prosecutors who received the complaint from the ISI of Ghent have opened criminal cases. As the problem concerns the whole country, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office will be responsible for coordination. For the surplus, since this is an ongoing investigation, it is premature to communicate more.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic529x.u16	Minister, I take note of that. I think it's a little short even if I'm used to this type of answer. I asked questions of a general nature. In any event, I note that the Brussels Prosecutor General is responsible for coordinating the file that has been opened. The question of the additional means granted to deal with this case does not arise from the confidentiality of the ongoing investigation. I will therefore be sure to ask you again in the coming months about the progress of this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic529x.u17	Madam President, Minister, I regularly ask you about the Kazakhgate file and the ways in which it is enshrined in the law. In reply to my last question on the subject, you indicated to me in particular that: "The investigation, initiated since October 2014, continues without appeasement with the will to determine whether offences, including the alleged traffic in influence, have been committed in Belgium and, if so, who the alleged perpetrators are". On Saturday, 5 November, information published by the newspaper Le Soir and by the French news website Mediapart refers to particularly heavy and intriguing elements brought to light in the context of this investigation, of which you do not want to tell me anything but whose press is talking about. This includes the active role of a former Speaker of the Senate who reportedly went to the personal home of the then Minister of Justice to obtain the passing of a law of circumstance for the benefit of his client, in this case the Amicable Criminal Transaction Act. This approach, according to the same sources, was teleguided by the President of the French Republic, in order to facilitate the obtaining of a commercial contract from a French firm that sells helicopters with the Kazakh State. If these facts were confirmed, they would be of unusual gravity. They therefore justify, in my view, the utmost attention and adequate investigative means on the part of the judicial authorities. Minister, can you confirm the authenticity of the evidence revealed by the press this November 5th? Can you tell me the status of the investigation? On the basis of which article of the Criminal Code is this investigation conducted? Is this article 247, § 4 of the Criminal Code relating to trafficking in influence? Do new investigative duties still have to be carried out in France or Belgium? Within which time can the investigation be closed? What are the human and logistical resources devoted to this investigation? Given the seriousness of the facts and their exceptional nature, do you consider these means sufficient? If so, will they be strengthened to enable the investigation to be completed within a reasonable period of time?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic529x.u18	Mr Gilkinet, the General Prosecutor's Office in Brussels provided me with the following answers. "The investigation in question continued without any particular delay. This is expected to be completed soon, with the last duties being carried out. The information being secret, and in order to preserve the presumption of innocence, it is not appropriate to disclose the details of the investigation."
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic529x.u19	Minister, thank you. I expected such a short answer, that's the habit. Nevertheless, I note that the investigation is under way and that the final duties are under way. I hope that there will be official communication and that we will not have to simply read the newspapers to get information. Whether they are correct or incorrect, they have an impact on the people who are cited and on the public's perception that justice is being done or not, which is important in such a heavy case. I hope you will pay attention to this, not by intervening in the case – you can't, not more than I can – but by giving sufficient resources to the investigators who are in charge of it. I wanted to express my interest and impatience with this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic529x.u20	Minister, this question will be a little more peaceful. On 9 September, the representative of the Belgian Buddhist Union welcomed the imminent recognition by the Belgian State of Buddhism as a non-confessional philosophical community. Your spokesman then moderated his enthusiasm, explaining that no text had been tabled on this subject and that consultations were necessary with the Regions and Communities. You have spoken on this issue several times in the media. I would therefore like to take stock with you of his progress and of the means you are prepared to take to bring it to fruition. Minister, what criteria must be met in order to be recognized as a non-denominational philosophical community in Belgium? In your opinion, does the Belgian Buddhist Union respond more or less perfectly? What is the status of discussions with the Commission on this subject? What commitments have you made to him to consider his recognition to be imminent? Within which time can such recognition actually take place? What is the nature of the necessary consultation with the Regions and Communities on this recognition? What is the amount required to meet the cost of this recognition? Does it appear in the 2017 draft budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic529x.u21	Mr Gilkinet, contacts are continuing with my services with a view to clarifying administratively the structure of Buddhism in Belgium. The criteria on which the request for recognition as a philosophical community is based are as follows: to bring together tens of thousands of adherents; to demonstrate the presence of this philosophy for several decades; to have a structured representative body; to respond to a social interest; and to respect public order and security. The financial implications are also on the agenda, as the expenditures will be distributed among federal, regional and provincial authorities for the organization of their education at the territorial and community levels. The next meeting will be held on Monday 14 November with representatives of the Belgian Buddhist Union and the administration, in the continuity of the work. A subsidy is foreseen in the 2017 budget for the structuring of Buddhism in Belgium within the framework of the law of 24 July 2008. There is a need for consultation at the federal level. Then a meeting will have to be organised with the Regions and Communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic529x.u22	Minister, as far as the last part of your answer is concerned, you say that a subsidy is provided for in the 2017 budget. Is this a new subsidy? This is the first time it has been granted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic529x.u23	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic529x.u24	Can you tell me the amount?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic529x.u25	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic529x.u26	We will then consult the budget as soon as we have it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic529x.u27	All right.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic529x.u28	It seems to me that the inclusion of a subsidy for the first time in the budget of the Belgian State is an important step in this work and this discussion with a view to the recognition of Buddhism as a non-denominational philosophical community in Belgium. It's kind of a good omen, it seems to me. For the rest, I hope that the work can continue, that all the criteria can be met and that, once they are fulfilled, all the public authorities concerned will assume their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic529x.u29	Minister, on the occasion of the information published on 5 November concerning Kazakhgate, I have gone back into the legistical history of this act on amicable criminal transaction and some elements deserve, in my view, an ex post facto clarification. On Thursday, March 31, 2011, the Senate passed both a bill and a bill dealing with the same subject matter, that of the amicable criminal transaction referred to in article 216bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation. The bill containing various provisions (53/1208) came from the House, was dealt with by the Senate in the context of the bicameral procedure and included this principle of amicable criminal transaction introduced in the text by amendment at the same time as the lifting of bank secrecy. The second text, the bill amending articles 216bis and 216ter of the Code of Criminal Investigation and article 7 of the Act of 6 June 2010 introducing the Social Penal Code, was tabled by several senators of the majority of the time, following the hearing of experts in the context of the discussion on the draft law containing various provisions, in order to correct the first one and to reduce the scope of the principle of amicable criminal transaction established by project 53/1208 or, in other words, to prevent its application for acts that are too serious, acts of violence against persons or acts of fraud that are too important to be able to benefit according to the legislator from the favour of amicable criminal transaction. In the context of the debate on the second text, namely the correcting bill, the question arose, inter alia, through my then senator's college, Zakia Khattabi, of the entry into force of the correcting law which might be after that of the bill and create confusion and legal uncertainty. If the intention was indeed to restrict the scope of the amicable criminal transaction, it should be applied immediately. If a law is to be corrected, it is not a matter of allowing it to enter into force before it is corrected. In response to my colleague Senator, the then Minister of Justice, Mr. De Clerck, replied that I quote the Senate report: "In the meantime, instructions will be given to the College of Attorneys General to delay the implementation of the transaction until the amending law under review has been published. This period will not be very long." However, despite this commitment, it appears that the principle of amicable criminal transaction was applied in its broadest version, prior to the entry into force of the correcting law, in particular in the so-called "Chodiev" file that everyone knows about reading the press. I would like some clarification from you, Minister. What was the date of the entry into force of the Law on Miscellaneous Provisions 53/1208? What was the date of the entry into force of the Act amending articles 216bis and 216ter of the Code of Criminal Investigation and article 7 of the Act of 6 June 2010 introducing the Social Penal Code, i.e. the famous law of correction? Can you tell me how and when the instruction was given in 2011 by the Minister of Justice at the College of Attorneys General to delay the application of the amicable criminal transaction until the amending law was published? If this instruction has not been given, can you tell me why? Do you confirm that files that could not have benefited from an amicable criminal transaction in accordance with the conditions laid down by the second law, the law correcting them, were indeed the subject of an amicable criminal transaction during this interval? How many cases are involved, for what amounts, for what types of offences and before which courts? If so, have any sanctions been considered or applied against magistrates who have failed to comply with the instructions for non-application of article 216bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation in its broadest and most permissive initial version? It was necessary to be precise, which is why the question is long.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic529x.u30	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, the criminal transaction, as originally introduced by the Act of 28 June 1984, has been extended from both a material and a formal point of view by Article 84 of the Act of 14 April 2011 laying down various provisions which entered into force on 16 May 2011. In the course of the parliamentary proceedings, it had already been observed that the proposed wording of § 1, paragraph 1, of Article 216bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation made it impossible to apply the extended criminal transaction to offences punishable by imprisonment for more than five years, which is the case, for example, for forgeries in writing. For this reason, a law of reparation was immediately prepared in order to formulate the material scope differently as follows: § 1, "Where the King's prosecutor considers that the act does not appear to be likely to be punishable by a principal prison term of more than two years or a heavier penalty, including confiscation where appropriate, and that it does not involve a serious breach of physical integrity, he may invite the author to pay a fixed sum of money to the Federal Public Service Finances." This was done through the Act of 11 July 2011 amending articles 216bis and 216ter of the Code of Criminal Investigation and article 7 of the Act of 6 June 2010, introducing the Social Penal Code, which entered into force on 11 August 2011. In the short term, it was always possible to propose a criminal transaction in cases where public action was pending but not for facts for which the legislator had determined a broader material scope of application. In May 2011, pending the law of reparation, the Attorneys General at the Courts of Appeal issued temporary directives. In particular, they provided that while the law of reparation limited the scope of the cases in which an extended criminal transaction could be proposed, it was not recommended to apply this new article 216bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation or to propose extended criminal transactions until the law of reparation had been published in the Belgian Moniteur. In view of the short time allowed to answer this parliamentary question, it is unfortunately not possible for me to provide, as you wish, more detailed figures on the application of the extended criminal transaction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic529x.u31	Minister, I will come back to you to get this data, because I find it too easy to take the time to receive answers as an excuse. This raises questions from a democratic point of view, but also for the transparency and organisation of your services. I note that it took three months between the entry into force of the first law and the enforcement of the correcting law, that is, between May 16, 2011 and August 11, 2011. The Attorney-General recommended that the law not be applied in its broadest terms. However, a fact has not been challenged so far. In at least one particular symbolic and financial case – we are talking about a transaction of 23 million euros – the criminal transaction was applied to facts that could not have been applied after publication and enforcement of the correcting law, in total contradiction with the recommendation made by the public prosecutors. This seems particularly serious to me when I do not know whether these facts relate to one or more files. However, this is a major malfunction which is currently being investigated and which I hope will succeed. I believe that as Minister of Justice, it is up to you to work together to ensure clarity on these issues. I will therefore come back to you with another question in order to obtain the expected answers; you can already inform your services, who can continue to search their archives. I will also ask you to provide me with a copy of the circular issued by the Attorney General.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic529x.u32	Question No 14885 by Georges Dallemagne and question No 14887 by Kristien Van Vaerenbergh are transformed into written questions. Question No 14886 by Mrs Monica De Coninck is postponed to the Committee on the Interior. Question No 14898 by Mrs Özlem Özen is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic529x.u33	Mr. President, Minister, in recent years we have witnessed a proliferation of harmful sectarian activities and a growth of smaller sects. We can also observe an enthusiasm for apocalypse theories in subjects related to vocational training, personal development and especially in the field of health. Not uncommon are the cases where victims of these sectarian drifts in the above-mentioned areas receive adequate assistance far too late. The anti-sect organisations stress the importance of monitoring this sector. They are concerned about the ongoing surveillance in Belgium, in a context where priority is given to the fight against terrorism, which is understandable. Minister, how many sects are there in Belgium and how many are actually monitored more closely? What are the numbers allocated to these tasks? What is your analysis of the threat of sects in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic529x.u34	Ms Jadin, on a strategic level, the Act of 2 June 1998 established a Centre for Information and Advice on Harmful Sectarian Organizations (CIAOSN). The Centre does not conduct direct monitoring of sects or threat analysis, but is responsible for studying the sectarian phenomenon and providing information to the public. In this sense, it does more information and prevention work. The Centre consists of eight members appointed for a period of six years by the House of Representatives and a secretariat of twelve persons seconded by the SPF Justice. At the operational level, pursuant to article 8 of the Act of 30 November 1998, the State Security has the task of processing information relating to harmful sectarian organizations. As a result of the redefinition of its priorities and the reallocation of its resources, as approved by the National Security Council on 13 July 2015, it no longer ensures this follow-up. However, the Royal Decree of 8 November 1998 established an administrative unit for the coordination of the fight against harmful sectarian organizations and assigns to the State Security the secretariat of that cell. It operates under the chairmanship of a representative of the College of Attorneys General and consists of the various operational services involved in the fight against harmful sectarian organizations: the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Federal Police, the intelligence services and the various FPS. It is responsible for coordination and operational collaboration, review of illegal practices, improvement of effectiveness and promotion of public prevention. At the moment, the Royal Decree still assigns to the State Security the secretariat of the cell. A draft amending royal decree is being drafted to relieve the State Security of this task and to entrust it to the secretariat of the Information and Advisory Centre on harmful sectarian organizations. The number of sectarian organisations actually active in Belgium is difficult to quantify. The Act establishing the Centre also prohibits the establishment of lists of sects.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic529x.u35	[[...]]
