ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u1	Mr President, Minister, I would like to share with you a situation which many police areas of the kingdom are facing, and which can have various negative consequences for the zonal police missions. I'm talking about the replacement, by police officers, of prison officers on strike. First of all, I would like to point out that I fully understand the ras-le-bol of some prison guards who simply wish to practise their profession in a proper work environment. However, when a social movement leads prison guards to disengage, it is up to the police officers to exercise security in the institutions concerned, since there can be no question of entrusting such an important task to the private sector. However, if police officers are to work in prisons, this means that there is less to carry out the many tasks assigned to them. Of course, I want to talk about the work on the ground that is essential to ensure the daily safety of the citizen. I also want to talk about missions linked to the current high level of terrorist threat that requires the availability of a large number of police officers in the police areas. In addition, police officers are not adequately trained to carry out monitoring missions within prisons. This may create tensions between inmates and police guards, which is not desirable at all. Minister, do you not think that it is high time to find a solution to this situation? What consultation do you have with your colleague Koen Geens, Minister of Justice? Have you told him of the tense climate in the police areas because of these alternative missions to the prison guards? What solutions do you envisage, from a police point of view, to ease these tensions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u2	Mr Delannois, Justice is conducting negotiations on the establishment of the guaranteed service in accordance with the government agreement. Both as Minister of Security and the Interior and as Deputy Prime Minister, I have consulted the Minister of Justice on this matter. The latter is only too aware of the tensions in labour relations. With regard to the police, proposals for improvement had been drawn up pending a solution for prison monitors and given the fact that police intervention was indeed required in some cases. In major national and sectoral actions, it is not possible to guarantee minimum security without police intervention. At the end of 2014, the organisation of work in the event of a strike was adapted in order to minimise the mobilization of police capacity. I refer to the method of estimating the number of police officers required by local management. This more precise method implies that fewer people are required. This model is now applied by default in the majority of prisons and has been the subject of consultation with the local police. The aim is to reduce police mobilization by more than 20%. This is already a reality in many cases. The mission of the police is to maintain law and order. What's more, police capacity is expensive. Caution should therefore be exercised in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u3	Minister, thank you. As the mayor of Tournai, I must also inform you that the zone council will send you a motion that has been unanimously voted on, in order to support all the police officers. We are in fact in a border region. Prisons and other institutions require special attention in police areas. Tensions are very palpable in the police stations and I want to make you aware of them. The police therefore expect a very strong gesture from you. I once asked you about the way in which the standards of supervision had been developed by the KUL. You answered very honestly that it was difficult to know. My territory hosts a prison and a psychiatric hospital and is located on the border with France. We sometimes say – and the police too – that they may have other tasks to do than wait in front of a prison. Thank you and count on you to find alternative solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u4	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, the system of municipal administrative sanctions has been under heavy pressure from the Council of State and the privacy committee, legal organisations and authorities for years. Since the intertwining in 2013, it is also under attack from 213 Flemish youth organisations. The French-speaking counterpart for the League of Human Rights mentions the system, whereby each municipality can appoint officials to impose administrative fines for behaviour that the municipalities themselves may determine, cassant sheriff justice. Former peace judge Jan Nolf is one of the many personalities from the legal world who claims that the GAS law violates the separation of powers. However, under pressure from N-VA, the previous governments are continuing the plans.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u5	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u6	You will! It'll be a little more. Last Thursday, Mediahuis newspapers reported that several municipalities could not implement the GAS system because the training of the sanctioning officials was discontinued because of the lack of candidates. The Association of Flemish Cities and Municipalities indicated that the provincial training schools, which offer these legal courses, have stopped because the costs are too high if there are too few candidates in the course. The Union of Towns and Municipalities of Wallonia also made the same comment on this matter. The President of the Flemish League for Human Rights responded that municipalities may not issue gas fines without a specially trained official. One of the most fundamental criticisms of the above mentioned actors on the GAS Act is precisely the role of the sanctioning official. Jan Nolf, whom I have already quoted, decided that the criticisms made by the Council of State and the privacy committee were never taken into account and that the dependence on the sanction officer was anchored, not his independence. The training of the sanctioning official, which takes only 20 hours in total, is also regarded by Mr Nolf as well inadequate. His analysis is that the sanctioning officials, the judiciary, are in practice more loyal to the mayor, the executive, who together with his ships decides what is criminal. I have to say that I feel the same way in my own congregation in Liège. I think that the sanctioning official is very close to the executive and, in any case, his independence seems very relative to me. Minister, what will be your response to this situation? Will you, as the competent minister, provide additional resources for the training of the sanctioning officials, or will you use this situation, which forces the introduction of the GAS law into new municipalities, to put the debate on the GAS law back on the table in the government in order to respond to the fundamental criticisms of justice watchers, human rights organisations and youth associations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u7	Mr Hedebouw, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in my municipality the Gas official does indeed work independently from the other people. Mr President, Minister, I would like to add my voice to the question of the lack of training for the sanctioning officials. According to the Royal Decree of 21 December 2013, a sanctioning official is required to attend a police school and/or a provincial or regional administrative school. The sanctioning officials employed by the GAS Act of 24 June 2013 were covered by a transitional provision. They were given the time until 1 January 2016 to follow that training. However, now that the deadline has expired, no more training is being organised. Apparently there are not enough participants at provincial level to cover the costs and therefore to organise such training. At federal level, there can be no centralised training, because the Royal Decree does not seem to determine this. This means that sanctioning officials who still have to undergo training, in particular because they have just been appointed, will not be able to do so, which means that they do not fulfil the conditions laid down by the Royal Decree. The VVSG would have already raised that problem with you and you would discuss it with the various provincial training centres. That is why I have the following questions. What solutions do you provide for this problem? Is there any possibility of organising one central training course, for example, following an amendment to the Royal Decree? What is the status of the consultation that you would be holding? Will training be organised in the future? If so, are any data available?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u8	Mr President, by judgment of 23 April 2015, the Constitutional Court ruled that the GAS law is constitutionally consistent and therefore does not require any amendment to that effect. One of the parties that brought the action before the Constitutional Court was the League for Human Rights. However, the Constitutional Court has clearly ruled that there are no grounds to address the concerns expressed by them and by a number of other parties. Regardless of the above, it has been found that most cities and municipalities in Belgium are already applying the GAS Act at the moment. They have already appointed a disciplinary officer. At present, therefore, there is only a very small number of people still to be trained for this job. According to the Royal Decree of 21 December 2013 laying down the conditions of qualification and independence of the official responsible for imposing the administrative fine and collecting the fines in implementation of the law on municipal administrative sanctions, the training of the disciplinary officials can only be provided by the institutions for the training of police officers or by the provincial or regional administrative schools. I will consult with the various provincial training centres in order to be able to organise a course for the whole of Flanders. It is not compulsory for the candidate to follow the training in his own province. If there are five courses that are all undermanned, we will keep one or two that have sufficient support. Most cities and municipalities in Belgium already apply the Law of 24 June 2013 on the GAS and have already appointed a sanctioning official. With regard to the rest of your questions, Mr Hedebouw, the policy statement for this year included that we will evaluate the Gas Act. If it is your ambition to see the Gas Act abolished, I can tell you that this is absolutely not our intention. There are, of course, a number of points where improvements can be made, as is the case with any human work. The consultations are ongoing and opinions on the GAS Act are coming in. We will take that into account. So we are going to evaluate the law, but we are not going to throw away the law or leave the trail of municipal administrative sanctions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u9	Minister, you said there would be a course for Flanders. Is this also the case for French-speaking Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u10	It's supposed to group the questions. It goes without saying that at least one Dutch language course and at least one French language course are offered.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u11	Of course, we will not be able to agree on the substance of the matter. We await the great debate on the evaluation of the law. It is essential that these officials be well trained because, in practice, they must judge very complicated social and human situations. It is not simply a matter of applying a mechanical fine. Consideration must also be given to feedback, social reasons and the context in which the offence occurs, certainly for mixed offences. In fact, these officials are almost becoming judges. I am well aware of the Constitutional Court's ruling; theoretically, that is not the case. But, in fact, they become, in a way, judges. They have to judge the crime and decide on reparation. Therefore, adequate training seems important to me. Urgent measures must be taken to enable those officials to implement them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u12	Mr Minister, for the record, I have not received so much additional information. You will consult with the provincial schools. I urge you to do so quickly. I do not have the exact figures and I do not know exactly where there are already too few sanctioning officials, but it goes without saying that training must be organised as quickly as possible. If people disappear because of illness or for any other reason, they must at least be able to be replaced; others must be able to take their place. I urge that things be organized as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u13	Minister, wishing more police officers on the streets, you recently announced that some police missions would be carried out by private companies. Thus, certain tasks, such as the supervision of public buildings or the supervision of detainees during transfers, will be taken over by custodial companies. Another possibility was also raised: the requisition of some federal police officers who still do road safety prevention. The press reports that these inspectors in the Prevention and Road Safety Cells would be assigned to other federal police missions. In the future, the prevention component would be taken over by the Regions and provided by regional officials who do not necessarily have adequate training. Between 25 and 27 police officers are reported to be affected by this measure. Several members of the police force are angry at the announcement of this new measure, which is likely to have been taken without consultation with the Regions. They indicate that, for this prevention mission, they have the infrastructure, knowledge and uniform and that they should be given priority in carrying out these tasks. So when will this measure apply? Is a consultation meeting with the Walloon Region and the people concerned scheduled? What will be the impact of this change? Are you considering a transfer of staff to the regional administrations so that they can take over this preventive mission and thus not have to witness the abolition of this service?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u14	Dear colleague, the future of the Prevention and Road Safety Cells of the Federal Road Police has been the subject of an in-depth analysis in the framework of the "key tasks" debates of the integrated police. Indeed, we have examined all possibilities in order to free from the police capacity previously devoted to non-police missions. The aim was to reinvest it within the framework of the integrated police missions. As for the road safety prevention cells of the road police, and taking into account the competences of the regional authorities in the field of prevention and road education following the sixth reform of the State, on 22 December 2015 the Council of Restricted Ministers decided to stop road education by the Federal Road Police and to abolish these traffic parks. A transfer of personnel to key road police tasks – and not to other services or administrations – is envisaged. A federal police working group will be responsible for the implementation of this decision during the period 2016-2018, including the development of transitional measures and the necessary consultations with relevant partners such as the IBSR and the Regions. The purpose of this decision is therefore to substantially improve the functioning of the police services, which will serve to render a better service to all citizens of our country. Today, the IBSR is ready to resume its training courses in order to offer them to the Regions as part of the federalism of cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u15	Minister, thank you for this very clear answer. At least now, there's no more equivocation. Let's imagine that there are some federal police officers who specialize in these subjects, who are being badly changed and returned to the highway police. Would there not be a way for some officers to be transferred to a regional pool that would be created to resume these missions? It would seem surprising to me that the Walloon Region does not resume road safety tasks. Are such discussions foreseen in the transitional measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u16	Everything is imaginable. There is a need for consultation with the Regions, while respecting the powers transferred under the Sixth State Reform. At the time of the consultation, if the Regions say they want to buy federal powers and the people concerned agree, that is possible. For us, it's a matter of unlocking abilities, not freeing people.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u17	I get it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u18	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Ducarme's 8945 was converted into a written question. Mrs Hufkens is currently asking questions in another committee. She will be coming here later, for her question No. - 8981. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Debates of the European Parliament Mr Top's 9115 will be discussed next week during the exchange of views with the Minister on the Channel Plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u19	Mr Minister, the new administrative status of the operational members of the relief zones includes the introduction of a federal fitness certificate for the candidate operational members of the fire zones, which gives access to recruitment tests for the staff of the basic framework or the higher framework. Those tests are a prior requirement for each recruitment procedure in the assisted areas. That is why I would have liked an answer to the following questions. The influx of volunteers into the fire department would seem to be stalled because it is not known when the next courses for a federal fitness exam will be set up. Do you have any more information on this? Is this also being communicated with the various zones? What is the reason why it takes so long for the next course to be organised? Have you already taken measures to speed up the process?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u20	Mr Top, the Royal Decree of 19 April 2014 laying down the administrative status of operational personnel of the relief zones effectively provides for the organisation of specific fitness tests for the basic framework and the higher framework, at least once a year per language role. Satisfaction for those trials gives access to a federal fitness certificate. That certificate is needed to apply for firefighter's post. In concrete terms, these tests are organized by the fire-fighting schools. There are no prior courses or trainings for that Federal Certificate. That Royal Decree of 19 April 2014 lays down the level of trials for the base and officers' framework and the conditions of admission. The information on the organisation of future tests for the federal fitness certificate is published in the Belgian Official Journal. The information is also posted on the website of the AD Civil Security and on the website of the VDAB, Forem and Actiris. The information is also regularly mentioned on the website of the various fire-fighting schools. There is no formal communication between my services and the relief zones for the organisation of the FGA trials. That communication is being done by the firehouses. They are in regular contact with the assisted areas as part of the courses they offer. The time between the various tests organised in the various fire-fighting schools does not seem problematic. Since 2015, no less than eight tests for the basic framework and two tests for the officer framework have been organised in the various fire-fighting schools in the country. By the way, four other tests for the basic framework and one pilot for the officer framework are planned between now and June 2016. Finally, I would like to point out that, with the Royal Decree of 18 November 2015, I amended the administrative status, allowing the areas with a serious shortage to organise the federal fitness certificate themselves through the fire schools, in accordance with federal regulations. In the event of a shortage of fire zones, they can contact the schools and make agreements with them on what they need. That happens on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I may have received incorrect or incomplete information about the latter. As far as equipment and cost are concerned, if there is a serious shortage and training is organized in cooperation with fire-fighting schools, should these costs be borne by the zones themselves, as opposed to the normal organisation of these training courses?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u22	It is an additional service extension, so it must be discussed between the zone or zones and the fire schools. There is no law or royal decree on this matter. It's a negotiation between both sides.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u23	I understand that there are enough training and are being planned. I will ask a written question to find out in which provinces these are planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u24	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demeyer's 9127 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 9134 by Mrs Jadin was answered yesterday by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u25	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, as you know, every guard officer must carry a departmental identification card on him without which he cannot carry out his activities. The identification card is issued by the Private Security Directorate of the Internal FPS and has a validity period of five years. When licensed custodians apply for these cards from the Home SPF and once they are issued, the companies then become owners of the cards. The law stipulates that when an agent's contract ends, the company must return the cards to the department. Today, it is the interior FPS inspectors who have to check within companies whether these cards have been returned to the ministry. Unfortunately, the inspector framework is not complete and many people still need to be hired. Given the number of guarding agents and the latest increases – it seems that private companies are out of stock – it is difficult to control all guarding agents in the territory. Minister, could you tell us how many cards have been issued? How many cards were returned to the department? What is the actual volume of employment in this sector? Is it timely to hire more controllers from the security companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u26	Mr President, Mr Massin, the administration issues between 10,000 and 12,000 identification cards annually. We do not have statistics on the total number of identification cards that are returned to my service. In some cases (bankruptcy, loss, death, stay abroad), it is not possible to recover the cards. However, the validity period is clearly visible on the card. During this period of validity, the person in question meets, in principle, the legal conditions based on screening and training. If, during a check, it turns out that the card is no longer valid, it will be confiscated. This inspection may be carried out by the police or by the inspectors of the Inland FPS. There are currently 17,921 custodians who have one or more valid identification cards. The number of staff assigned to the control of the private security sector has increased significantly over the past two years. Five inspectors made up the cell in charge of this control in 2013. In the meantime, autonomous management has been put in place. It currently consists of 26 people, including 20 field inspectors. Three recruitment procedures are still under way, bringing the number of field inspectors to 23. There are currently no commitments other than those I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answers. You know why I was questioning you. It is simply because this sector is highly subject to fraud. Indeed, since it is the licensed company that is "owner" of the card, you have people who find themselves "temporary", that is to say they are sometimes hired, sometimes not, all this without real control, beyond the fact that cards also pass from one to the other. Since you have put the fight against social fraud as a matter of great will in the government statement, I wonder if it would not be useful to have a cross-section of information between the field inspectors of the Internal FPS and those of the Social Inspectorate, which would allow us to check in the guarding companies exactly what is happening, to see whether the social legislation is respected, which is not necessarily the case, and to realize the situation in which these people are present. I believe that it may not be pointless to have a cooperation agreement on the controls to be carried out between the Internal SPF and the Employment SPF, which would certainly put an end to fraud. Indeed, a few cases of fraud come back to me. As far as individual cases are concerned, I know that this cannot be reported here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u28	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 9181 question was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 9184 by Mrs Jadin was answered yesterday by the Prime Minister. The combined questions Nos 9190 and 9426 by Mrs Jadin and Mrs Lahaye-Battheu respectively were postponed at their request. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs de Coster-Bauchau's 9192 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demon's 9199 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Geerts did not reply. He's not here, and he's not apologizing. Then I will apply Article 127.10 of the Rules of Procedure and consider the question withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u29	Mr President, Minister, as we had had an e-mail exchange, I imagined that these issues would be dealt with next week as part of the Canal Plan debate. However, I think your firm felt that my question went a little further than that and that you wanted to be able to answer today, at least with regard to the involvement of the police. I reacted quickly enough when you announced those 1,000 additional police officers. I've often said it here: it's an interesting step. We had a long debate on the division of labour, on the question of which missions might have to go to other services. I told you I wasn't an ayatollah of the absolute non-privatization. In my view, there are tasks that can be transferred to other services. But the first effort is to be able to make complementary commitments. I can tell you that I don't see very clearly and I'm sure you're going to enlighten us today. That is the main purpose of my question. Where did those 1,000 policemen come from? I understand they came from the federal police, for part. We strip James to dress Paul! It's an expression that's often used. If we get 300 units out of the federal police – is that right? – we are strengthening this federal police in other topics that you are also dear to: basic missions, including road safety, all the priorities that you are going to integrate into your national safety plan, etc. Of course, particular support from Brussels areas is needed, and I will certainly not regret it. But it's with the support of a new blood that I think would be needed. In these 1,000, there are complementary commitments, real new commitments that come from nowhere, to help. You're talking about an additional 500 police officers for 2017. I would have liked you to clarify those 1,000, stating that 200 come from here and 300 from there, that there will be 200 additional ones going to such a service, in such an area. I would like to pay attention to the fact that, beyond the Brussels areas most affected by the aspects of terrorism, Flemish and Walloon areas are also particularly affected by this problem, which requires additional commitments. I'd like you to give us an overview of the geographical distribution of these officers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u30	Mr. Secretary, I will not give a whole introduction. As far as the Channel Plan is concerned, there was first a strike announcement by the trade unions which was subsequently withdrawn. However, I would like to clarify the 400 million set aside for the fight against terrorism in November 2015. Thirty-nine million were specifically earmarked for the elaboration of the Channel Plan. For this, 300 extra police officers are recruited. By 2019, 1 000 police officers will be added against terrorism across the country. My question is about the same as Mrs Matz's. What is the roadmap for achieving this? By when will these people be operational? Are police officers being transferred from the provinces for the Channel Plan? If there are transfers, what procedure will these people go through? Is that voluntary? What exactly is that all about? I would like to get a clear picture of that. So like Mrs. Matz, I'm asking where they come from, how we're gonna recruit them and that's more.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u31	Minister, notice of strike had been issued by a number of police unions. Following a meeting with your firm, this notice has been lifted. The main reason was that the unions had not been involved in these decisions. Almost everything, the unions had the same questions as ours: where is it going to go? Will this not penalise certain services? You had the opportunity to reassure them. I have no doubt that you will have the opportunity to reassure us today too.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u32	Mr.President, Minister, the federal government announced in November 2015 the implementation of a security plan specific to certain municipalities with a view to strengthening administrative police control. On February 5, the government presented the Canal Plan. On 8 February, 30 police officers came to strengthen the services of the Brussels-West police zone, and more particularly the local division of Molenbeek-Saint-Jean. As I have repeatedly pointed out, these are measures that are excellent decisions in the context of the steps we must all take to combat terrorism. I asked my question about the notice of strike as soon as I became aware of it because I was particularly surprised to find that hardly a reinforcement had been announced, which everyone had to rent, that a notice of strike was filed. This reaction seemed a bit hallucinating: to be confronted with this threat of strike. However, I was just as surprised, but this time pleasantly that, following the meeting you had with the unions, this threat of strike was lifted. This is proof of good listening and good efficiency. However, one cannot help but interpret that services that should normally be satisfied with being advanced on the ground in order to strengthen a police approach initially had this rejection reaction. I also heard, and I received confirmation this morning in the police college by the Chief of Staff's representative, that there had been some communication concerns with the police. Minister, what are the specific demands of the unions? Is it correct that federal police management has recognized a communication problem in the first phase of making federal police available? To date, under what criteria has the choice of federal police officers been made? Under what procedures is this reinforcement to the five zones put in place? Is this made available on a voluntary basis? What are the conclusions of the meetings held on 18 and 19 February with regard to the assignment of police officers to the communes of the Canal Plan? What specific social and financial measures were adopted at this meeting with the trade unions and how long were these measures taking? Is it true that a federal police officer made available in local areas to combat terrorist threats and radicalism will be able to leave the area overnight to join another service? I would like to supplement this with information received this morning at the police college. Of the 40 police officers already operational in the Molenbeek local division, eleven have already applied to be deployed elsewhere from 1 March. Today is February 24. This is not a problem, we are rightly told, because they will be immediately replaced by others. But I think you need to be careful that it will not be easy to evaluate the system that has been put in place if, by some kind of Danaid barrel, every month police officers assigned somewhere ask to go elsewhere. I believe that we need to be vigilant about this aspect of the deployment of forces under the Canal Plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u33	Mr President, I will present a consolidated answer. We addressed three points: strike notice, the announcement of an additional 1,000 police officers and the Canal Plan. With regard to the notice of strike, a meeting was actually held at my office on 18 February at my initiative. The unions were first informed about the key tasks and their guaranteed involvement in the implementation working groups. The second theme was the interdepartmental provision of 400 million and the envelope allocated to the police. His declination was commented on in detail. On 19 February, negotiations were held on the notice of strike relating to the Canal Plan. A solution was reached and notice was withdrawn. What was it about? When we explained the distribution of the EUR 300 million, and what this meant for the police, to the social partners, the questions were: do we understand that this will actually be added and that 1 400 additional people will be recruited three years after each other? That was reassuring for them, I think. What was their point regarding the Plan Canal? That the plan came into effect so quickly. Many people are recruited, but we are not going to wait for recruitment, training and so on. Mr Pivin, for Brussels, this was not a solution. We had no choice but to recruit those policemen. For me, that's a purely operational decision. The decision to free up budgets and to say in agreement with the police we can do it, which is a policy decision. Its application belongs to the police. There were problems with the method of designation and the placement of staff. We therefore made three commitments after the meeting on 19 February. Firstly, for a period of three months, clear agreements were made on the statutory applications that reconcile flexibility and humanity. Secondly, in the meantime, a working group, led at the level of the services of the Commissioner-General, will look at the issue of the GRG, the reserve, the structural aspects and, together with the social partners, propose improvements. That is fundamental, because this is inextricably linked to the procedure of recruitment and selection of the integrated police. Everyone feels that the GRG concept has reached its limits and that a different approach is required. Graduated aspirants roam far too long before holding a structural position. That's HR-wise a bad thing. A third commitment, for the criteria for the very short term designation of any substitutes for the Channel Plan, will also be consulted with the trade unions by the Director-General of Resources and Information. The appointment of staff is, after all, a matter for the federal police itself, not for the minister. I'm not gonna tell you who's gonna take care of traffic tomorrow and who's gonna go to Molenbeek. That's not my jurisdiction. So there will be a meeting. The appointment of staff will be carried out by the federal police themselves, with the participation of the trade unions. The trade unions asked for a negotiated procedure with timely communication and agreements. That's what they're gonna do. The intended deployment of federal personnel in the zones is covered by the section "Working with third parties" of the welfare legislation. Therefore, representatives of the Brussels-West and Vima or Vilvoorde-Machelen zones attended the negotiations. In this respect, I can tell you that the first indications were not voluntary and that it might happen that people will sometimes have to be replaced, as you confirm, Mr Pivin, because, in accordance with the statute, those concerned can continue to participate in the mobility procedures. That's what the statute says. There's nothing I can do about that for a while. As far as the increase in recruitment is concerned, I repeat what I have already said on several occasions: first of all, we had to have a certain view of how federal policy could be optimised, to be determined on the results of the political discussion on key tasks, to be familiar with the consequences of the new system of pre-pension non-activity and, finally, to refine the needs in the fight against terrorism and violent radicalism. This multifactorial approach has made it possible to objectify and justify the requests made in the context of the breakdown of a first security envelope, up to 300 million. As Ms. Matz pointed out, it was said that recruitment, recruitment and recruitment were needed. First, optimisation was chosen, and then decisions were made as part of the Key Tasks Program. Then there was the 300 million portfolio. I can now look at what is needed to keep the police at the desired level. It was a question of hiring 1,000 extras. On the basis of the analyses carried out, the recruitment of 1,400 extras is now necessary. This is why guidelines have already been issued for the complementary incorporation of 400 aspiring candidates in May and 200 aspiring candidates in September 2016, in addition to the 800 already budgeted recruitments. In other words, 800 recruitments had already been budgeted. But we are going to carry out 400 additional recruitments in May and 200 additional recruitments in September. It was also decided that this level of recruitment should be maintained for the next three years. This is not a correction or an error of assessment. Let us be clear, without this sordid reality of terrorist threat and growing radicalism, internal rationalization measures, i.e. optimization and key tasks, would have allowed less recruitment. The aim is to increase the number of federal police officers by 1,000. In order to achieve this goal, 1,400 people must be recruited, including pension separations. The placement of the above 1 000 additional staff for the federal police during this legislature will be partly through the application of regular mobility and partly through additional recruitment at the base. As already mentioned, 400 people start their initial training in May. The 1 000 TFEs will be assigned to the following services: DSU (139), PJF (233), DJSOC (23), Reserve (300), Aviation Police (35), Maritime Police (40), screening (8) and SICAD (200 by 2019). Then there are 40 people left for the mobile migration management teams. So one has the complete picture. In conclusion, I would like to emphasize that the local police do not remain empty-handed in this operation, on the contrary. The increase in the strength of certain units of the federal police, such as the reserve, has resulted in direct or indirect support to the areas. Turning to the question of investment and operating appropriations, much of the envelope is devoted to it. In addition to the acquisition of a wide variety of equipment for the federal police (which I will list), funding is provided for the i-Police project. A specific annual amount of 15 million has been released for the benefit of the areas to ensure connectivity within the integrated police, thanks to a collaboration with Minister De Croo who has the Digital Agenda in his competence. This means that this i-Police investment will be made at the start of the federal budget and that we will make the i-Police available at no additional cost. I therefore believe that the federal authority is making considerable efforts to support these police areas. In addition, the Royal Decree granting subsidies to the areas in order to finance the new pre-pension non-activity scheme has just been signed. Of course, I expect the local authorities to do the same. In conclusion, I think all the features of the police are important. Community policing is the cultural model of our police and the function of neighbourhood work is an important part of it. Federal support for police areas indirectly enhances these features and ensures that local police areas can redirect their capacity to neighbourhood work. As reflected in the Government Agreement, we will soon begin the issue of functional pay, including for the function of neighbourhood agent. However, I cannot process all files at the same time. First optimisation, then the essential tasks, the pension file and finally the disciplinary status file.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u34	Mr. Minister, you began by saying that you wanted to take stock of the situation and determine what the key tasks were and, therefore, the recruitment needs. On several occasions, I have advised you to follow the opposite path. The 2,500 complements you are announcing to us through better distribution and optimization of missions are rather rough estimates, which will be refined by working groups. Secondly, you state that this is not an error of assessment. I am pleased to note that you are raising the standard of engagement to 1,400 officers per year. It had been reached in the last two years of the Di Rupo government. We told you that the 800 standard was not enough, especially because of counter-terrorism missions. I will certainly not argue with you about who was right, but I am glad that you have heard our constant appeal since the beginning of this Parliament. You also recalled the need to raise this standard in the light of new and special police missions. Having said that, I do not understand – and I apologize for this, because perhaps it is because of the drugs that numb my mind – that you were talking about 1,000 and 1,400. Would you like to explain it to me again?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u35	To increase the number of 1000...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u36	There is not only the standard of engagement that allows us to stay at 12,000 and 1,000 additional. I didn't understand where those 1,000 extras came from.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u37	These are new commitments. The distribution I have given can be achieved through internal mobility but the spaces left vacant are included in the 1,400.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u38	I think the effort is interesting, especially since you did not talk about the recruitment standard after the Council of Ministers. I've always said that you have to fill the holes first before you think about something else. Here, if I understand correctly, you fill the holes and you make a complementary effort. You're not going to undress James to get Paul dressed!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u39	The aim is to increase the number of police officers from 12,000 to 13,000.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u40	But in the immediate future, you are calling on the federal police to strengthen the Brussels areas within the framework of the Canal Plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u41	We plan to strengthen 300 police officers for this year, 40 of whom are already in place in Molenbeek and 20 in Vilvorde. The police don't grow in the trees, so we have to go and look for them in the other services, which we will then bail out through recruitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u42	Minister, I really think that this clarification is a step more than interesting. We have the real standard of recruitment, which I believe must become sustainable. We need to maintain a heading of 1,400. To imagine that tomorrow, terrorist phenomena will disappear completely and that, therefore, we will need fewer people, I do not believe in them and I am sure that neither do you. This standard must be sustainable. The additional effort of the 1000 of now, during a period of particular acuity, is extremely interesting. I want to thank you. I told you the unions were soothed after you met. I was hoping you'd calm us down. I'm soothed even if it doesn't completely appease my back pain, but I'm starting to get better.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u43	It's obvious to me. I just have one more question. The procedure for transfers has been moved to the table with the trade unions. So there's no procedure for that today? With the police, there was some fear of a possible transfer. So this procedure has shifted to an agreement with the trade unions, and there are no criteria for that now?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u44	The procedure has been moved to consultation with the trade unions on two points. In the short term there will be consultation with the trade unions. Together with the social partners, we will see how we can replace a system of devolved reserve, because today the national reserve is being used locally for this purpose. Sometimes those people sit there for six or seven years. They are classified locally from the national reserve, often very close to their place of residence. Then they call on the reserve and get them out of their homes to place them somewhere else. I understand that this is uncomfortable for those involved. So we want to establish a system of devolved national units, so that at least one can stay at provincial level, for example. However, if the need is very high, the national reserve can of course always be invoked. Then we're talking about a kicked system.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u45	Minister, your answer is perfectly clear and complete. I regret that Mrs Matz has left, but I will gladly repeat it in her presence: unlike the previous government, we have announced a figure of 1,400 and you will make it a reality. That is a big difference to me. It must be taken into account that the reaction of the unions, in one sense or the other, is not neutral, whether it is a question of prompt notice or of prompt withdrawal. Indeed, we will not be able to do anything without them. Mrs Matz is right on this point: we need to be able to deploy a long-term, non-floating system. At some point, we will no longer be able to avoid a debate on mobility. It has its advantages but also some disadvantages that need to be taken care of in order to achieve results.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u46	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Terwingen's 9274 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u47	Mrs. Lahaye-Battheu is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u48	Mr.President, Minister, according to a study conducted by the sector's representative bodies, in 2015, 72% of general practitioners say they have already been victims of an assault. While most cases are limited to verbal abuse, almost a quarter of doctors would have been physically abused. These figures represent an increase of more than 20 per cent over 2013. As far as the causes of these attacks are concerned, refusals to grant a medical certificate or prescription are most often pointed out. Mr Minister, in response to one of my previous questions, you informed me that, as part of the platform for consultation with organisations representing SMEs and self-employed people organised earlier this year, a doctor-specific working group could be set up to discuss the prevention measures to be taken or to be made known. Minister, my questions are as follows. Do you confirm the establishment of this physician-specific working group on the adaptation of preventive and safety measures? If so, when do you expect to receive the conclusions of this working group? Does your administration plan to study other measures to enhance the safety of general practitioners at the same time?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u49	Mrs Jadin, I confirm the setting up of this working group initiated in the wake of the meetings with the organisations representing SMEs and the self-employed. A first meeting will be held on 25 February with my administration. The Public Health FPS will also participate. This working group examines problems and solutions to improve the safety of general practitioners and other health professionals working outside hospital facilities. A more accurate picture of the phenomenon, in collaboration with the College of Physicians, will be discussed and monitored in order to assess the impact of the measures that are and will be implemented; to update the prevention tools available to the professions covered here and to provide information or awareness-raising on the actions and practices that avoid risks; and finally, to evaluate the local projects already in place to improve safety and, where appropriate, to adapt them. This working group will meet tomorrow, but the outcome date has not yet been set. They'll fix it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u50	Minister, I am indeed too fast. I should have waited with my question. In any case, thank you already for your answer and take this situation seriously. I really consider it unimaginable that those on the front line of health care – and this is the case in my rural area – can be victims of such actions. Solutions must be found to stem this phenomenon. I will come back to you for the results of these meetings.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u51	Mr President, Minister, during the reform of the police services in 2001, the granting of honours for the police services was interrupted. The establishment of a uniform status also required reform for the award of honours. For example, a royal decree of 27 January 2008 regulates the new procedures for granting honours for members of the integrated police services. In order to determine the practical modalities, it was necessary to draw up a circular. A department called the "Chancellery" has been set up to take charge of these missions of awarding distinctions. It was a colossal work that began as there was a certain backlog: an analysis of each staff member's career in order to establish a data bank. It is my responsibility that honours for members of the integrated police force are delayed. I've been arrested by several police officers about this. There are several reasons for this: the large number of backlog cases and the very composition of the federal police's "Chancellery" cell. Indeed, this cell would consist of only one half-time employee. The delay which has been taken is therefore considerable. I wanted to draw your attention to the importance attached to the beneficiaries of these distinctions. This is not a fustiger, but we have just talked about the commitment of 1,000 police officers and the government's significant efforts in this regard, and there is also recognition of the services that police officers have provided in the past. I would like to know how you were going to deal with this complicated issue. Do you confirm that the "Chancellery" cell is composed of only one part-time employee? Do you consider this composition sufficient? When do you estimate the regularization of backlog files?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u52	Mrs Matz, I certainly agree with you on the importance attached to honours. This is a recognition for services rendered, certainly at the present time when the practice of police is far from easy. I confirm that there is always a delay in awarding honours. You know that the grant was brought to trial because of a lack of legal texts. After the publication of the necessary circular covering 2001 until the beginning of 2010, computer applications still needed to be developed. This caused a delay for the integrated police until mid-2011. Since 2011, approximately 15,000 cases have been initiated, covering the period 2001-2005. A number of proposals which do not meet the legal requirements, a large number of cases are still under examination in the bodies. Almost 7,500 awards have already been awarded. The latest grant patents were released in December 2015. A necessary adaptation to the 2010 circular is currently under way. I cannot tell you the exact number of backlogs, but part of this backlog has already been absorbed. I agree with you that there is still a lot of work to be done. I recall that I am aware of the importance of this recognition for police personnel. As for your second question, your information is not correct. The Federal Police Service, which includes the mission of honours, has just been reorganized. The honours section is made up of six people, but the honours mission is only one of its many missions. The problem this section is currently facing is the long-term illness of a key person in the process. The services are currently trying to remedy this absence, finalize ongoing files and initiate new transactions. For your third question, it is not possible for me at present to provide you with a precise timetable for regularisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u53	Thank you for being aware of the importance of the recognition of the services rendered and for giving it the necessary attention: 7,500 regularisations is rather good. As you say yourself, we're facing double or triple. Do you have any idea how many thousands of people this involves? What is the order of this number?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u54	Between 2001 and 2011, 15,000 cases were referred to. This represents half of the total number. That's just an order of magnitude. We've already solved...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u55	You'd have about 15,000 files left, to get a proportion. The fact that there would be more people than I have been told and the structural solution that we are trying to find for this person who is in long-term illness will, I suppose, help speed up the process. I therefore understand very well, under the conditions you describe, that you cannot give us a more precise timetable. I will provide this information in a positive way. I will not do this by saying "it doesn't matter," but I will say that everything is being done to ensure that it is done as quickly as possible. In this type of recognition, we all have an interest in walking in the same direction. We have to say that we recognize the work and that everyone gets around the table so that it is recognized as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u56	Minister, the French investigative weekly Marianne recently published a file relating to Abdelkader el-Farssaoui, alleged informant of the Belgian police services. He is also said to have been a recruiter for jihadist channels. Indeed, from 2011 to 2014, this character would have operated in the streets of Brussels and in the vicinity of airports hosting flights to Turkey, a well-known crossing point to Daesh. The periodical also reportedly had access to the investigation file of two young people, Murat and Ibrahim, who had been prosecuted in Belgium for participating in the activities of a terrorist group - the Jean-Louis Denis branch - through the alleged intervention of Abdelkader el-Farssaoui. The telephone analyses would demonstrate unequivocally that the latter accompanied the two young people until their flight to Istanbul in November 2013. These are therefore not allegations from them, which would have been manipulated or sought to dislodge. Moreover, no one contests this version, not even the federal prosecutor Paule Somers, in charge of the case since its origin and obliged to admit, on 3 December last, that Abdelkader el-Farssaoui was well at the travel agency and at the airport, but that he had not paid the trip. On the other hand, El-Farssaoui's name goes back to another sensitive issue, Mohamed Merah, whom he allegedly visited three weeks before his attack in southern France. Yet, despite all these particularly disturbing and confusing elements, el-Farssaoui has never been worried by the police and at this stage, he is therefore free from his movements. The reason for this apparent impunity is that this individual would be an informant of the Belgian investigators, after having been in the service of the Spanish police. Following these revelations, I would like to ask you the following questions, Minister. Has a survey of Committee P been initiated? If so, within what time frame are the conclusions expected? If not, do you intend to request such an investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u57	Mr Vanden Burre, I will refrain from commenting on a particular issue. I will remind you of what Mr Geens has already said. According to article 30, paragraph 2, of the preliminary title of the Code of Criminal Procedure, there is a provocation when, in the author's case, the criminal intent was born directly or when it was reinforced or confirmed while the author wanted to put an end to it, by the intervention of a police officer or a third party acting at the express request of that official. In the judgement of 29 January 2016, which is not yet a final judgement, the Brussels Correctional Court found that there is no evidence in the case file that Abdelakder el-Farssaoui, to which your question relates, would be an official of the Belgian police. Moreover, assuming that it is an indicator of the Belgian police, there is no reason to conclude that its activities of material and moral assistance in favour of candidates for departure would have been carried out on the request or on behalf of, or in cooperation with, the police authorities or the judicial authorities. On the contrary, according to the judge, the behaviour of both El-Farssaoui and the police makes the hypothesis of a provocation radically impossible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u58	Minister, you are giving me the same answer as Minister Geens. Here, the point of asking you the question is whether an investigation was initiated by Committee P. I don't know if you can answer that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u59	Not to my knowledge. But Committee P is an institution of parliament. I am not aware of an initiative by Committee P, but I am not sure that this is not going on.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u60	Minister, as you know, almost one in three police zones have applied for the status of "deficitary'. In concrete terms, this means that 55 out of 189 police areas have too few policemen and have a hard time filling in their staffing framework. Especially smaller corps have trouble attracting agents. Young agents prefer to move to larger corps, where there is more action to be done, and where they can claim premiums. However, there are also deficit zones among the large corps. Currently, an Antwerp pilot project is under way in which local areas with federal support can launch their own advertising campaign to recruit candidate agents. This would allow local areas to attract more local candidate agents to fill their staff framework. If this works, the project can be extended to other areas. I have a few questions for you on this. Can you give me an overview of the deficit zones and the shortage of agents per zone? How long will the pilot project run in Antwerp? Can you give a preliminary evaluation of it already? Larger corps can often offer more premiums, attracting candidate agents to the detriment of smaller zones. Do you see a solution for this? Are you planning more federal resources to make the necessary recruitments according to the needs of the local areas? Do you see any other solutions than the Antwerp project to solve any shortages in the zones?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u61	Mr Demon, I have brought with me the details of the deficit zones; they are now 56. "Deficitary' means that the minimum standard in those zones is not met. I'll get you that list. I won't read you everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u62	That won't be necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u63	However, I would like to point out that the fact that a zone is in deficit with the minimum standard does not necessarily mean that it actually wants to open up all vacancies, or that it, by definition, has difficulties in finding candidates. It may simply be a decision of that zone not to open certain vacancies. In addition, a number of zones have a staff framework equal to the minimum standard, which means that, in the case of one departure or one vacancy, it is suddenly established that the zone is in deficit. I agree with you that a number of zones are indeed experiencing difficulties in finding sufficient candidates. As far as your second question is concerned, in my reply of 28 October 2015 to five oral questions, I have already mentioned this issue. That will continue to apply in full. I'd like to repeat it for you. The local police of the Antwerp police area will do a specific recruitment, especially aimed at Antwerp young people and immigrants. That action is currently under way. The Federal Police Selection and Recruitment Service will cooperate in this. The local police have the intention to develop a specific, preparatory training in preparation for the tests to bring candidates to the appropriate level. All this happens at the expense of the local police Antwerpen. The selection itself will be done according to the regulatory framework. This means that federal procedures and standards are used and that the chairman of the selection committee is a member of the selection and recruitment service of the federal police. The co-chairs can be presented by the local police Antwerpen. In terms of time and place, concrete agreements have been made. The training is also done at the expense of the local police of the Antwerp police zone. Appointments about the training are made between the police school, campus Vesta, and the local police. The project was kicked off by local police on January 19th last. The project will be evaluated globally after two years. I have decided that the project should also be evaluated in the interim, after six months. At that time, there may be an opportunity to talk about enlargement. There are already a number of cities and zones that have asked to be involved. It concerns police areas such as Ghent and Machelen-Vilvoorde. They are interested in this project. There are also a number of areas of interest in Brussels. I shall then come to your third question. I think it is a misconception to think that larger police forces provide more premiums than smaller corpses. There is, however, the bilingualism premium in the Brussels zones. One of the advantages of the integrated police and its unitary status is that all police officers with the same degree, seniority and function, the same wager and, where appropriate, the same functional allowance. As I said, there is the nuance of the Brussels police zones, which is largely explained by the need for bilingualism. So that's a bilingualism bonus. Moreover, the inventory shows that both large, medium and small police areas may be deficit areas, as you will see in the list. The recruitment of employees is therefore certainly not due only to the size of a corps or to a difference in remuneration. The kind of corps itself, the organisation of the corps, its culture and image can also play a role in this. Your fourth question. Alignment of the outflow to the inflow and identification of the best estimate for training are part of the staffing needs plan and budgetary alignment. This is obvious and is no different in this respect. This exercise is now constantly being carried out by my colleague in the Budget and this for the various frameworks and levels. This exercise also takes place in the local police zones, given the possibilities offered by the GPI 73 of 27 May 2013. To get a clear picture of the needs of local and federal police, the Persepolis project is ongoing. The objective of that project is to measure potential outflow risks on the basis of accurate personnel monitoring, taking into account, in addition to other personnel movements, future outflow risks. This will allow an annual assessment of the recruitment needs of the integrated police in the short, medium and long term. The results will be ready for the summer holiday 2016. With regard to the non-activity prior to the pension, the NAVAP, I can inform you that seven members of staff have so far applied for NAVAP from the Federal Police and that two staff have already received NAVAP. There are no figures available for the local police. Finally, with regard to possibilities other than the ongoing project in Antwerp to resolve the shortage of agents in the zones, I can tell you that any zone that has published a vacancy for inspector through mobility in vain may register this vacancy with the management of the staff of the federal police for either immediate recruitment or aspirant mobility. As a result, these zones have the assurance that that vacancy will actually be filled in. Where the Antwerp police zone has chosen the solution and where it bears all the costs, registration for immediate recruitment or aspirant mobility costs the zone nothing. However, the zone has an obligation to include and appoint the final candidate after the latter has succeeded in training in the area. I can tell you that since the introduction of these possibilities a number of areas have already made use of this possibility, but I think there are still too few. Perhaps we should re-advertise this. The system is simple: one states to have a post open and asks for a recruitment. But if the candidate is effectively recruited and offered, he must be accepted. That's free, by the way. Antwerp's approach is entirely at the expense of Antwerp. The recruitment in which a zone asks the Federal Recruitment Service to recruit someone with a certain profile is free of charge, but one is obliged to accept the candidate who comes out of it effectively. It is therefore impossible to ask for the work to be done and to say that they do not need it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u64	Minister, at the beginning of April 2015, the Council of Ministers recognised the ten last federal disasters. Since 1 July, this has become a regional competence. A great element was, of course, in it, the Pentecostal storm. Many files were expected for recognition, 25 000, most of which would be about the Pentecost storm. Pretty soon afterwards it appeared that a few municipalities fell out of the boat in the context of rain damage. They then submitted applications through new figures through the RMI. This was the case, among other things, for four municipalities from West Flanders, Tielt, Kortemark, Vleteren and Lichtervelde. As far as I know, there's no news of that today. We were therefore a little shocked when a couple of weeks ago colleagues from the Federal Parliament spread the communication that there was actually already recognition for Vleteren and Lichtervelde. When I contacted the municipalities, that did not appear to be the case. There would only be positive figures from the RMI, but no decision would have been taken by you to proceed to recognition. Minister, it appears that there are now more and more problems in terms of timing. Many of these municipalities were also recognized for the first Flemish disaster. A month later, at the end of July 2014, there was again a lot of rain. Then there was the first Flemish recognition. They're a little further up there. They're already finishing the files there. Several farmers are now told that they actually have damage but that the damage cannot be paid before July 2014 until the June 2014 dossier has been dealt with. That doesn't make any sense, since it's all about damage to the same crops. Where are we today in the context of those ten recognitions? What was paid today? When do you hope to be able to handle this? It is now almost two years after the facts. For some of those ten disasters, it's almost three years after the facts. What's the status? How many are there? How many have been paid out? When will that file be closed? Quid with the remaining municipalities that have no recognition today? Is there any lack of data from the RMI or are there any budgetary problems? When could they expect a decision, allowing those concerned to submit their files?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u65	Mr President, Mrs Muylle, as you know, the declarations are made at the level of the provinces. The provincial authorities are responsible for examining the dossiers and drawing up decisions on a case-by-case basis. The files are then sent to the FPS Home Office, which carries out a final check, and then order payment to the National Cash for Disaster Damage, which is under the management of the FPS Finance. A total of 15 424 declarations were submitted at the level of the provinces for the whole of the 10 recognised disasters of 2015. The FPS Interior has so far received 247 decisions from the provinces and 219 payments were made from the National Cash for Disaster Damage. Those figures date from 1 February 2016 and are now almost a month old. If you want more accurate figures, I suggest that you put a written question on this. As regards the recognition of municipalities which have applied late, an examination is being carried out, as always, to check whether they meet the criteria for recognition, an opinion is also requested from the RMI and an administrative file is being drawn up, which is submitted to the Finance Inspector and the Minister for the Budget. The files from Wingene and Lichtervelde are fully ready for the Council of Ministers and await the advice of the services of the Minister for the Budget. For the files from Vleteren, the RMI has issued a positive opinion, for which the administrative file is being prepared. Furthermore, these are files from Knesselare, Roeselare, Sint-Gillis-Waas, Sint-Niklaas, Waimes and Malmedy, which are still under investigation. For the full handling and payment of the more than 15 000 files it is currently impossible to give a target date. However, it goes without saying that any damage caused by these last federal disasters will also be effectively compensated in accordance with the rules in force in the regulations. The municipality of Vleteren responded after a negative opinion from the RMI. It has provided new elements to my administration and to the RMI, which has amended its report. That municipality will therefore be included in a new draft royal decree. The municipality of Tielt has not yet specified the number of files. For Kortemark, this is 22 files. Based on previous disasters of the same type, the average is EUR 5 763 per file. Since the notification of their refusal of recognition, the municipalities of Kortemark and Tielt have not provided any new information to my administration. If new information justifies that, my administration will ask for the advice of the RMI one last time. The two municipalities in question can also contact the RMI themselves and ask them to provide the technical information. I cannot possibly provide the advice of the RMI or influence it because it acts completely independently.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u66	Mr President, do I understand that there are a few files ready and waiting for the opinion of the services of the Minister for the Budget? Or is there a legal problem? There are signs that there are legal problems due to the transfer. As a result, the Finance and Budget Department says that it cannot provide additional resources for transferred items. Or is it the normal procedure that files are waiting for advice?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u67	I think that's the normal procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u68	This means that the dossiers with a positive opinion from the RMI must wait for advice from the Department of Finance and Budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u69	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u70	That is clear, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u71	Mr President, Minister, the number of staff at the Mons-based emergency call centre that handles calls from all of the Hainaut is constantly decreasing. The unions recently called the alarm bell. Indeed, the calculation that sets the framework for the staff required in these centres based on the number of calls determined that the Hainaut centre needed sixty-three workers. It was planned that the federal police would take over 20 per cent of this workforce, that is, 11 workers expected to come to support the callers. However, because of the lack of resources and the greater presence of the police on the streets, the police are no longer able to provide this support and the workload is increasing for the workers of the centre. This situation causes permanent stress that leads to depression, burn out and significant turn over within the staff. Minister, are you aware of the situation of the Hainaut Information and Communication Centre (HIC Hainaut) and what are you planning to do about it? What is the average number of incoming calls per week for this centre? Is this number changing over the past five years? What is the development of calltakers for the same period? Is this situation an isolated case or are other centres also affected by the disappearance of police support? Finally, from what budget are workers in these centres paid?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u72	Mr President, Mr Vanden Burre, first of all, I would like to make it clear that we are now talking about SICAD (District Information and Communications Service) which is the unit resulting from the merger between the former CICs and the CIA, when the federal police are optimised. The term SICAD is now used for both. A grunt movement has not been expected to act, as the recruitment of seven people is planned again this year. For Centre 101 in Mons, consultation of existing recruitment reserves is under way. Jobs are also being opened in internal federal police mobility to increase the number of police officers in this SICAD. They are currently unable to carry out calltaking tasks due to their insufficient number. If these jobs are taken over, some of this additional capacity could be used for callmaking, which would reduce the workload of current callmakers. In this case as well as for the other SICADs, places are open. It's not that we don't want to hire, but there's often a shortage of candidates. Regarding your specific question on the number of calls, I can give you the average number of incoming calls per week: 9,567 in 2011, 9,658 in 2012, 9,250 in 2013, 9,322 in 2014 and 9,629 in 2015. In terms of calltakers, there were 51 in 2011, 52 in 2012, 53 in 2013, 53 in 2014 and 48 in 2015. For 2016, as I said, we are recruiting. We still want to add seven people. In this period, the Interior FPS recruited thirteen new calltakers for the 101 center in Hainaut. The SPF organises and continues to organise selections and recruitments annually, but staff movements remain important (departure, resignation, part-time work). This situation is not an isolated case, but the situation is more pronounced at centre 101 in Mons. For the remaining 101 centres, additional recruitment is still planned for this year. Finally, regarding your question about the budget, the calltakers that come out of the civilian staff are covered by the budget of the Internal FPS. Police officers who call or dispatch to centres 101 are included in the police budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u73	Thank you for your answers, Minister. I understand that there is a concern to find candidates and therefore to recruit people who want to work at the call centre. I will relay the information to my colleagues in Montois and innocuous who had arrested me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u74	Debates of the European Parliament 9355 by Mr Hedebouw was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u75	Minister, as you certainly know, the local police in Zeebrugge reportedly registered refugees in the marker. There is a controversy about the indelible character of ink, it is always that five days later, the signs are still visible. This way of acting shocked me! Moreover, the local mayor fully assumed it and did not call it into question. Personally and politically, I believe that such actions are unworthy of the twenty-first century. If it is a question of being able to recognize refugees, why not provide them with administrative documents instead of marking them? What do you think of this method? Do you find it appropriate and feel that it has its place in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u76	Mr President, of course I fully agree with Mr Hedebouw. I know that the European Court of Human Rights has defined this practice as an awkward one to avoid. For me, it is, as my colleague has said, much more than a malice. This reminds us of an unglorious past of history. Minister, do you confirm the existence of such practices of marking persons under administrative arrest, including in police areas other than those mentioned in the press? If so, what disciplinary measures do you intend to take against the perpetrators?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. Mr Hedebouw is perfectly bilingual; he introduced his question in Dutch, and I have therefore prepared this second answer in Dutch. I'm sorry, that's not my style. The local police in Bruges, in collaboration with the maritime police, are monitoring illegal refugees in Zeebrugge territory. Monitoring is carried out on the basis of article 21 of the Police Function Act. Increased surveillance in recent months follows a more evident presence of transmigrants in and around Zeebrugge. The government has also explicitly called for intensified controls to properly identify transmigration flows, help people in distress, prevent the infiltration of radicalised people and collect information in the fight against trafficking in human beings. In the case of larger groups of illegal refugees, a figure was added on the basis of the persons concerned with erasable ink. A numbering is a necessary action within the cell complex that enables the police to enable the necessary administrative processing in an organised manner. The assigned number shall be a serial number, not a unique number. So it doesn't constitute an I.D. I will go into more detail about the application to the hand in a moment. The intention is to link the person to the items he brings, as both do not stay in the same place. So the assigned number, as I said, is a serial number and not a unique number. After all, the people found are in no way identifiable by official documents containing photocopiers. In many cases, some form of communication is almost impossible. The process has already been modified and a wristband system is being used, not with songs on hand anymore. The straps are removed when leaving the cell complex. When they find refugees, they are always made clear that they can remove their personal belongings from the case found and those who have to keep them with them. Things that turn out to be none of the people present, and which are not attributable, are regarded as abandoned waste and are taken away in order to avoid contamination of the environment with all kinds of litter and to preserve the viability of the neighborhood. So what's it about? People come in with stuff. Those things are put somewhere, in an organized way, to link the right person to the stuff. In most cases, they don't have any stuff on them. I also find writing a song on the hand less appropriate. At the time your questions were submitted, however, the wristbands were already working, like for anyone who goes to a party or something like that. When they leave the cell complex after registration, the wristband is removed and the case is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u78	Minister, you have said that changes have already taken place. I think it is important for the Home Secretary to give the signal that it is not possible. When one goes to a performance, one gets a receipt in the cloakroom to get his things back. When you go to a show, we give you a ticket, if it comes to having a recording of something left somewhere. Here I find that there is still an ease, on the side of the local police, to move on to a still very shocking practice, to write about people. We are in the twenty-first century. There are limits we can't cross. I believe that as a minister, you must give a signal to this local police force. As far as personal items are concerned, you know that the municipal waste crew has also acted. But it clearly didn't involve anything left behind. It was stuff that was outside while the migrants were eating somewhere inside. I feel that like a bully policy. You can't do that. That's not gonna get us there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u79	Minister, I am obviously glad that practice is no longer taking place. I hear they're bracelets. Maybe it's less shocking. I'm less sensitive to your comparison with the evening bracelet. Usually, when we have bracelets in the evening, it's to go partying. Here, they are people facing survival issues. But I know you and will not argue about it, although this comparison was probably not the best. I understand the objectives. I'm glad we don't do it that violently anymore. I agree with Mr Hedebouw that these aggressive practices, whether they involve identification by a badge or the marking of migrants, will not solve the problems. We know there are! I can understand your concerns, even if I don't share them all. In any case, not with the same magnitude. But it is not by reacting aggressively to people who are in a situation of survival that problems will be solved. You said there was also an identification of the property. We also have echoes that when these people are under administrative arrest, the cleaning services embark what you call waste. If you could pay attention to it, it would seem correct to me in relation to those people who are suffering.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u80	Mr President, Minister, last year Parliament approved the government's proposal to take away the nationality of new Belgians of the first generation when it comes to Syrian fighters and terrorists. Two weeks ago, France took a step further by making people of dual nationality susceptible to this sanction, even though they were born in France. There were 317 votes in favour and 199 against. As you know, this has caused a great deal of turmoil and political debate in France. In een recent televisieinterview op de RTBF verklaarde u de ontwikkelingen in Frankrijk van nabij te volgen, en ik citing u: "If France votes its law, I will follow with great interest what international courts will do with this law. If the international courts validate it, I think it is necessary to open the same debate within the government"– implied, the Belgian government. The problem is that there is a great deal of criticism from humanitarian and legal organisations about these measures. The Minister of Justice, Mrs Taubira, even stepped down on this point. It would be contrary to the democratic principles of the various states. As a Labour Party, we agree with that criticism. Removing the nationality of people who go to Syria to fight does not help us in the fight against terrorism. Why would a terrorist be afraid of taking his nationality? I think this is a symbolic measure, but it shows that we are dealing with two categories of citizenship. There are two categories of citizens in Belgium: those who have dual nationality and those who do not have dual nationality. I think we're pointing at the whole community and that's worrying. On the one hand, it is not effective and, on the other hand, inequality is created through the various citizens while, in my view, in order to win the fight against terrorism, one needs to have unity among the Belgian population and not to point the finger at the binationals. Unity must be promoted with all these populations in order to combat terrorists. With this type of rhetoric, you precisely divide the population and indirectly weaken this necessary fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u81	Mr President, Mr Hedebouw, we can discuss the effectiveness of the measure endlessly. I will only reply to you on this point. There was discussion within the federal government when we took the measure of taking the double nationality of people they have applied for, not of people they have acquired par nassance. After all, let us call a cat a cat. If this measure were to have any effect, we could discuss it, it would be the third and fourth generation. Those are the people who are leaving. On the law on the first and second generation, which we have adopted, I agree with you that it is rather a symbolic measure, which will have little practical application. What I said at the RTBF, and I see that you share the same view, is that I am following with great attention the debate in France and the legal steps that are likely to be taken now, after the vote and the law has been passed, against the law. After all, what you are saying is right. I'm not a lawyer. The debate among lawyers is about whether the principle of equality is being violated. There is a category of persons with a single nationality, i.e. only Belgian nationality. When they go there, commit terrorist acts and return, they cannot be made apatrid. Their nationality cannot be taken away. If a person with a double nationality goes there, his or her nationality may be taken away. The question is whether this creates inequality. Some lawyers say they don't. Even in the case of a conviction by a court, the same acts are sometimes subject to different penalties. Others think so. Those who have acquired one nationality are not at risk, while those who have dual nationality are at risk. So that's a manifest inequality. I would now like to await, for example, the opinion of the European Court of Human Rights on that French law. Then we can discuss again whether or not it is useful to introduce the measure. If, however, the European Court of Human Rights considers that the measure constitutes a breach of the principle of equality, we should not even begin to discuss it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u82	As far as the legal aspect is concerned, we will have to wait and see, but we are already fully aware of the political aspect. You'll feel the same way yourself. There must also be a political reason why such a symbolic dossier should be included. You admit it won't do much good. I hope you know that for the third and fourth generations it will not bring any more. So they're working on symbols. There is a great polarisation in our society on this issue, and it is well known that it is also on the agenda of the terrorists. They have never had the hope that they could harm us militaryly, they do not have the means to do so. They therefore have a political agenda, namely the polarisation of society, in order to be able to recruit. The only viable thing for them is to recruit more and more young people to win in Syria, not to win in Europe. So they need that polarization. With the measures you are now considering as Minister, you are sending out the signal that you are promoting polarisation of society. You know that young people who are born here, but come from Morocco, have dual nationality, because Morocco simply gives them or imposes them. If you say that you want to study what is happening in France, you give the signal that you are making two categories. In this sense, this weakens us in the fight against jihadi terrorism, because the polarisation of society does not benefit us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u83	In the meantime, Mr Demon has left the committee and his question No. 9398 is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u84	Minister, I would like to ask you about the situation of the company Eckert Zigler (formerly IBt-BEBIG) located on Seneffe's industrial zoning. As you know, this company produced iodine- and palladium-based implants. Production stopped in June 2008. Decontamination operations resulted in the release of the former iodine production zone. However, the palladium production area is still not fully decontamination. I am thinking mainly of the two casemates and the two cyclotrons which, unless mistaken, are still installed there. However, it is up to me that the employers have dismissed all their staff and there is only one accountant and a part-time secretary on the site who finish giving their notice. The company has also just announced that its head office will no longer be located in Seneffe, which makes the worst fear, especially since it is seeking to rent its buildings and there are plans to do so. What would happen in the event of an incident without any more responsible and competent staff on the site? I also remember that water infiltrations have spread to nuclear areas and that there has already been a fire in the ventilation system which, as you know, must continue to operate even if the cyclotrons are stationary. It is a real scandal to let such a situation continue. This company dismisses its staff, leaves the site to abandonment while potentially very dangerous nuclear material is still present. I ask you to immediately initiate an investigation by the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (FCAC). What is the exact situation on this site and what are the real intentions of the owner of the site? When will the premises of the company, which should be recalled, no longer produce since June 2008, be completely decontamination and the cyclotrons dismantled? What is the maximum time limit provided for by legislation in such situations? Isn't it time for the Belgian National Organization for Radioactive Waste and Enriched Fissile Material (ONDRAF) to take possession of the site as it had to do in Fleurus on the site of the former Best Medical? And then, can you assure us that the bill (the nuclear liability) will be paid entirely by the current owner and will not in any way be transferred to the taxpayers' citizens? I do not want to relive the scenario of Nordion/Best Medical, which, after being properly enriched, declared itself bankrupt, thus sending the 80 million euros of its bill of dismantling to the Walloon families. Unfortunately, the lesson of this sad precedent was not enough. Clearly, the requirement to provide accounting provisions is not sufficient. It is necessary to change the model and enter into a system of physical provisions, a kind of surety, blocked in an account controlled by the public authority. What assurances can you give us that similar situations do not exist elsewhere on a small or large scale in this nuclear sector, which undoubtedly increases the difficulties? I am thinking in particular of the latest incident, namely the urgent cessation of the dismantling of FBFC International in Antwerp on 3 February, for lack of knowledge in the management of the dismantling.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u85	Mr Nollet, AFCN is well aware of the state of Eckert & Ziegler's facilities in Seneffe. V These facilities currently pose no danger to the population or the environment. Iodine and palladium implant production areas were remediated. This sanitation was completed in 2015. Waste from production and sanitation activities was disposed of from the site. Therefore, there is no dangerous nuclear material on the site. The dismantling of casemates and cyclotrons requires the introduction of a decommissioning file with ONDRAF and AFCN. A letter asking Eckert & Ziegler to submit such an application before February 29 of this year was sent by AFCN to the management of the firm on December 11, 2015. A meeting between AFCN and the German management of Eckert & Ziegler is scheduled on 8 March 2016 to take stock of this subject. According to the information in my possession, in particular those available from the Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises, the company's head office has not changed. There are still administrative staff on the site. An external firm has been engaged since 2010, at the request of AFCN, to carry out the weekly facility monitoring program. In addition, an expert in physical control from a university regularly moves to the installation at the request of Eckert & Ziegler. The timing and time required to dismantle the facilities will depend on the decommissioning plan proposed by the operators and the proposed decommissioning techniques. The legislation currently does not provide for any time limits in this regard. Furthermore, in order for ONDRAF to intervene, the bankruptcy of the undertaking must be declared and/or expressly requested by the operator from ONDRAF, as provided for in Article 2 of Royal Decree ONDRAF of 30 March 1981. ONDRAF and nuclear liabilities fall under the supervision of my colleagues responsible for the Economy and Energy. I will therefore not elaborate an answer on this point. Finally, the regular inspections and controls of the Nuclear Safety Authority are in my view the best guarantee that similar situations do not occur or that they are treated with all the attention they deserve. If, after analysis of the PSAN, it appears that regulatory improvements are needed, I will obviously do what is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u86	Minister, this situation surprises me. You confirm that production stopped in 2008. It's 2016. Almost eight years have passed since production stopped in June. And you find it normal that the site is not yet dismantled. The cyclotrons are still here. You're saying the garbage was evacuated. I ask you to have the Federal Agency verify that everything is clear about this. Indeed, they have been relocated. But who owns the waste? In my opinion, they continue to belong to the company that is financially responsible for them. I suppose you won't deny me that. I thought there was legislation that, after five years of inactivity, we had to dismantle. In this case, eight years passed without the start of cyclotron and two casemate operations. You said they had to answer by February 29. We're 28. Have they already answered?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u87	As I said, they responded and a meeting was set. It is scheduled to be held on March 8th.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u88	They therefore responded and a meeting is scheduled. So I'm waiting for this meeting to find out what's going on. You said there were staff left. But you do not deny that only two people remain - an accountant and a secretary - in addition to the external staff that the Agency has demanded, which is, moreover, a good thing. If no serious incidents have occurred so far, the issue of water infiltration remains a concern. You can also think of fans. The latter must continue to rotate since there are still cyclotrons. If an outbreak of fire occurs in this type of business, this may be a problem. I really hope that the meeting on 8 March will be an opportunity to finalize the matter. And I invite you to check whether there is any legislation providing for a deadline for the dismantling of this kind of site. I repeat that, as far as I am concerned, I thought that legislation provided that, after five years of inactivity, dismantling should be carried out, but I will check what is happening. I also ask you to monitor the issue of waste.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u89	Minister, the Federal Environmental Information Recourse Board has not met since the end of December, as its members' terms of office have expired. When will you renew the terms of office of the members of this commission whose website is hosted by the Ministry of the Interior?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u90	Mr Nollet, I will reply very briefly. The renewal of the terms of office of the members of this committee is also the responsibility of my colleague from the Environment, Mrs Marghem. She has done what is necessary in this regard. The royal decree was signed by both of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u91	Minister, thank you. May I ask you to send me the composition of this commission before the publication of the order?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u92	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u93	Mr President, I note the minister's positive response and thank him for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u94	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 9426 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu 9190 by Mrs Jadin. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 9432 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu 9311 by Mrs Muylle. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Frédéric's 9465 was postponed. With Mrs Jadin's approval, we shall wait a little longer because her question No. Question No 9479 is merged with Question No 9606 by Mrs Gerkens, who is currently interviewing the Committee on Health. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 9497 by Mrs Gabriels President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Debates of the European Parliament Mr Wilrycx's 9514 question was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Pirlot's 9517 question was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demeyer's 9521 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Fréderic's 9540 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u95	Minister, you know the existence of the "nuclear risk" site, created and managed by the Interior FPS. This site, which is supposed to inform citizens about nuclear risks, has on the homepage a section "last news" where we will consult useful and recent information. This section has something to ask us about. According to the content of the section, there is no news between 2013 and 2016, since the last one has just been published. Minister, when we know everything that has affected nuclear safety in recent years, the question of the credibility of this site can legitimately be asked. What is your analysis of the situation and, above all, what are you going to put in place to remedy this at least problematic situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u96	Mr Nollet, as Minister for Security, I consider that preventively informing our citizens about the risks of our modern society is crucial in view of the positive impact that such a communication has on crisis management. After a first campaign in 1999 and a reminder in 2002, a national nuclear risk information campaign was conducted in March 2011 under the coordination of DG Internal FPS Crisis Centre. During this campaign, information brochures were distributed, TV spots were broadcast and a website was created, the one you just mentioned. It was in March 2011. Currently, the information on this site is still applicable and allows everyone to get the best information so that we are all prepared at best to act in the event of a nuclear or radiological incident. The information website on emergency planning and nuclear crisis management is complementary to, among other things, the website of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency you know. The AFCN is responsible for day-to-day nuclear safety, security and related information. However, the importance of this preventive information is not limited to nuclear risk alone. It is cross-cutting for all risks and crises. The reflexes to adopt are similar in many situations. The principles of self-protection and citizen solidarity in the event of a crisis are applicable in all emergency situations. In November 2014, the Crisis Centre launched a web portal, info-risks.be, with the slogan, "inform yourself, prepare together". To reinforce this message, concrete citizen awareness actions will be launched in 2016 and continued over a three-year period, with a harmonised approach for all risks. As part of this initiative of the Crisis Centre, the risknuclear.be website will be updated in particular to address the specific information related to the new national nuclear emergency plan being updated and the actions taken by emergency and response authorities and services in order to best prepare for the safety of all. This is a long answer to say that we will update the website when we update the national nuclear emergency plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u97	Mr President, Minister, the length of your response is inversely proportional to the amount of so-called news that is published on the site. In any case between 2013 and 2016. Indeed, you will see that between 2012 and 2013, there are about 20 regular information, in November, December, etc. And then, from 2013 to 2016, nothing until the day information was recently released on January 5. That's what alerted me. All of a sudden, we're updating a little information. Let's be clear, the true content of the answer is in the conclusion of your answer that it is more than time for this site not only to be updated but also to be kept up to date. You will update it when the National Emergency Plan is updated, but it will also need to be updated regularly because people want to be informed. I share your philosophy on this aspect that better information is what makes things more serene. But to say that nothing happened between 2013 and 2016 about nuclear security is to hide part of the reality. I think I understand the synthesis of your answer and what was between the lines of it as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u98	Mr President, Minister, I asked you at the plenary session on 18 February, following the discovery of a surveillance video of a senior nuclear officer by the person who is considered to be the logistician of the attacks in Paris. In your answer, while keeping the fact that there was no threat to nuclear power plants, you provided us with two information. According to the first, you were going to submit a proposal to the government to deliberate on capacity for external protection of the facilities pending the operationality of a surveillance and protection corps that would replace the local police. What about this proposal? What exactly is it? What budget does it require? Has the government taken a position since then? You also stated that the AFCN, the OCAM and the police regularly reassessed security measures on the basis of new information, such as concrete threats or their experiences on the ground. Did a reassessment of the measures take place following the information that has leaked since last week? Finally, on the same day, the city of Huy complained about the low level of information and the low level of consultation with local actors in this area, in deep divergence from the requirements of Circular OOP36. The Hutois authorities also regretted that they had not received any follow-up in favour of their dual request for the deployment of military personnel to the monitoring of the Tihange power plant. I would like you to present us with the various contacts and consultations that you have had with the city of Huy and the conclusions that emerge from them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u99	Mr.Nollet, I received two letters from the city of Huy, one from November 23, 2015 and the other from January 22, 2016. I responded on December 15, 2015 and February 9, 2016. In my first response, I indicated that these requests are being incorporated into the police task reforms that were being discussed in the federal government at that time. I also indicated that the decision on this matter would be taken in the coming weeks. In my second response, I informed them of the establishment of the Monitoring and Protection Corps, which will provide external protection for sensitive sites of which nuclear facilities are part. For this body, a contribution will be requested to the operator of the nuclear power plants and I would also like to apply this principle for a short-term solution. This solution will be discussed very soon within the government and will also respond to the demands of the city of Huy. A reassessment was indeed made following the discovery of the video. Some additional security measures were then taken. I cannot tell you what these measures are, because it is in itself a security measure not to talk about security measures. So, in conclusion, we answered, we're going to create the body. In the meantime, I will go to the government with a proposal to provide external protection, but we have already taken additional steps for these sites.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u100	There is always a delicate balance between the information given to Parliament so that we can verify what is being put in place and the secrecy which must necessarily surround certain security decisions. In the previous discussion, that is, when you initiated the first measures following the Paris attacks, you had nevertheless given us some indications, even if without details on "where, how, how". Now, you're at least vague. I think it is more related to the fact that the issue has not yet been dealt with by the government than to the content of the measures themselves. In the coming weeks, I would like you to present us a little more in depth, without revealing any measures giving too much information, the dimensions of these complementary measures. You have insisted on this aspect of complementarity: it does not replace, it is complementary. I apologise for coming back regularly with these questions, but our plants have been sabotaged at Doel 4 and we still don't know the author or his motive. It also has something to worry about, even if you say that measures have been taken. We got to know a part of them, but not everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u101	Mr President, Minister, since 2015, at least two green issues have been introduced by the Wallonia-Brussels Federation in the fight against religious radicalism. The first issue concerns listening and legal aid for families and individuals who are aware of religious radicalization in their surroundings. The second issue deals specifically with the support of French-speaking teachers in the face of these risks of radicalization within schools. Unfortunately, I have no further information on the initiatives taken within the Flemish Community. Looking at these initiatives at other levels of power and in the light of the information I was able to gather last year when I had the opportunity to visit the French services which have set up a green number which is in cruise speed and which is, I think, operational and sharpened, I would like to know the organisation which is deployed in our country, given the essential in this field, that the right people are in possession of the right information. How many green numbers about the threat of religious radicalism are in place in our country and in each Region? Have the persons managing these numbers received specific training in radicalism as part of the police expertise and the R plan, as is the case in France? With which federal police services, do those in charge of these hotlines transmit the information collected? Do the police services automatically receive all the information collected by the persons managing the numbers? Under what procedure is the collection made? How many investigations have been carried out by the police services, whose origin would be the result of the information collected by these calls from the green numbers since they were set up?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u102	Mr Pivin, I am pleased to see that the federated entities are taking initiatives to prevent radicalisation, in particular by setting up green numbers. My services have met several times with the "radicalism" referents of the federated entities to follow the evolution of the setting up of these green numbers. In addition to a number accessible to teachers, there is a green number available for families in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. There is also a call number in the Flemish Community. This issue is one of the priorities of the Flemish Government's plan to prevent radicalisation. This number is managed by the Wellness, Health and Family Department of the public institution Kind en Gezin and aims to inform and advise parents in particular. This telephone support is not a new initiative, but it was recently extended to the problems encountered in the radicalisation of a loved one. In addition, the Brussels Region had mentioned in paragraph 5 of its action plan, announced on 21 January 2015, that it would organise an information and assistance point for the support of young people, parents or third parties concerned or concerned by stating that - I quote -: "This responds to a real social emergency, especially to the attention of parents who do not know who to turn to to to report a disturbing behaviour or attitude. For a long time, this has been demanded by the parents of the young people concerned without a response so far." To my knowledge, this project has not yet come into being. It is therefore useful for me to ask the question of the formations received directly from the various federated entities, since the setting up of these green numbers is essentially the responsibility of the federated entities. The questions asked on the green numbers are not automatically transferred to the security services. That is not their goal. Green numbers are hotlines and cannot be used to report security issues. However, any questions or alerts exceeding the objective of the hotline may be communicated to the local police. In the Foreign Terrorism Fighters Circular, we also stimulated the creation of local integrated security cells. These can be a platform where some of these issues can be dealt with and possibly transmitted to the local police represented in them. The training of people managing these green numbers is organised by the competent departments but they can obviously draw on the expertise within the framework of the R Plan and the police expertise. Telephone helplines have recently been set up. We currently have no information on the number of specific cases reported to the police as a result of this. The aim, however, is to systematize and monitor this operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u103	I will make sure that the Brussels government is questioned, so that it turns away for some time from the problem of tunnels and sets up a green number.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u104	Mr. Friart is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u105	Mr. Chair, Minister, I have already been able to ask you about structured communication information and responsiveness measures within the OCAM 3 and 4 threat levels. In November 2015, the Belgian Federation of Trade (Comeos) – which brings together 18 sectors that account for 11% of GNP – had made various comments on the communication and exchange of information with public authorities in the context of terrorist threats. If it seems that a communication platform for the FEB and Unizo – that's what we talked about when I asked you about – is in place within the framework of the missions of the Federal Crisis Centre, the Comeos federation has just presented a plan of concrete measures to implement a structured organisation in case of a new threat similar to that of last November. I believe that we should welcome this responsible approach and therefore accompany it as effectively as possible. My questions are as follows. Have your services read and analysed Comeos' proposals? Why does the organisation of the existing communication between the FEB and Unizo, on the one hand, and the police services, on the other hand, not include the other trade federations? Does communication between the police services and the Internal FPS and Comeos in case of alerts 3 and 4 require specific features currently being studied by your services? Have the services of the Interior FPS and the Crisis Centre already proposed to Comeos a framework structuring the processes and procedures to be initiated within the businesses as part of the implementation of a threat such as that identified in November 2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u106	Mr Pivin, on 6 March 2009, the Ministers of Justice and the Interior and the Managing Director of the Federation of Belgian Enterprises (FEB) signed the Memorandum of Understanding "early warning system" between the public and private sectors. In doing so, the information network of companies "early warning system" against terrorist threats is formally activated in our country. Under a fixed procedure, companies and public services exchange information in order to best protect the economic sector and its personnel from possible terrorist attacks. It is under the impetus of the Criminal Policy Department, as coordinator of the permanent consultation platform for business security, that the Federal Public Services Justice and Home Affairs, as well as the FEB, have set up this information network. The Criminal Policy Department is under the jurisdiction of my colleague, Minister of Justice. All actual members and members of the FEB participate in the early warning system. It brings together more than 50 sectoral professional federations of which Comeos is a member. In total, it represents more than 50,000 companies. In the event of localized threats and threats in sectors not represented by the FEB, the Crisis Centre addresses directly and exclusively the sector and the firms concerned. In such cases, the contribution of the FEB shall consist of assistance in the collection of the necessary coordinates. Last week, I received Comeos' proposals, but it is still too early to tell you my position. Nevertheless, I would like to remind you that the Internal FPS relaunched last January the "SMEs and independents" platform of which Comeos is part. The objective of the platform is, inter alia, to study, promote, implement and evaluate initiatives in order to effectively prevent criminal actions. It is also planned to involve regional and local authorities in this platform. These are particularly involved in the implementation of preventive measures. Also with regard to the establishment of a detailed information network between Comeos and the police areas, a pilot project was initiated between Comeos, my administration and the federal police in 2014. The initial intention was to create an exchange platform as a variant of a neighbourhood information network for independent entrepreneurs but rather as regards retail. It is also the exchange of information on serious and organised crime, the reporting of both suspicious acts and incidents with an emphasis on preventive rather than non-emergency information. To date, this initiative is in a recognition phase where a number of practical issues are being developed and a series of system proposals are being considered. This also raises legal and organisational issues that need to be clarified. What is currently under discussion is to determine the possible legal, technical and operational pitfalls and, of course, what solutions can be implemented to remove these pitfalls.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u107	I understand that you are currently analysing the proposals or measures put forward by Comeos. I remember that the figure of 70 million euros was mentioned as representing the loss of turnover during the lockdown period in the Brussels region. I therefore believe that all the measures that can be taken to reassure the sector and reduce this loss of revenue will be useful and I thank you for paying attention to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u108	Deputy Prime Minister, the police have recently trained in a college in Walloon Brabant to react as effectively as possible to mass killings in schools. Even if we hope that this type of scenario will never happen, we must be realistic and responsible by giving police units all the necessary training to be able to deal with this type of tragedy. Could you give us an overview of the nature of the training operations that took place in Walloon Brabant and, in particular, the lessons learned? To what extent are the law enforcement agencies satisfied with this training, in comparison with any improvements that had been identified in previous exercises? What are the synergies that currently exist between your services and formal educational structures to deal with threats to schools? Has a platform for exchanging good practice been set up in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u109	Mr Calomne, I warn you that these rather brief questions will lead to a four-page answer. [[Laughs]] Within the La Mazerine police area, within the framework of the 48bis IPF, AMOK training has been provided to all operational personnel since 2011. In order not to lose the benefit of this education, in addition to the mandatory trainings, integrated practical exercises are set up almost annually in collaboration with the neighbouring police areas. Exercises have already been organized in various companies established in the police zone, hotels and international companies. This year, the purpose of this training was to test the coordination between different services which could be involved in such a situation in a school. Emphasis was also placed on collaboration between the local police and the federal police, including the interaction between local and federal judicial services and radio procedures. At another level, the operation was intended to allow the school to test its internal response plan and the relief services to test their response in the event of a serious crisis. Four police areas, the Federal Judicial Police and relief services were invited to participate. For this event, the choice was for a school to practice in a complex and occupied place, where the police services would be able to intervene in this way and to establish links with the other. The exercise was developed in close collaboration with the school, including management and prevention counsellors. The teachers themselves were able to participate in the latter to test their reaction in such cases. The idea of a school scenario stems from the fact that so-called mass killings are regularly committed in schools in the United States and that there is nothing to say that this phenomenon could not be exported to Europe. The current situation has unfortunately reinforced the fact that law enforcement agencies must prepare effectively for this type of event. The exercise was carried out without incident with a final result which could be found to be positive and satisfactory from the point of view of the intervention. This exercise was able to emphasize that special ballistic protections are essential in this type of situation and that it is therefore necessary for stakeholders to be trained in the use of this equipment. At present, no training is provided in the various provincial and federal academies for the optimal and secure use of these protective equipment. We were also able to see the usefulness of a tactical coordinator and the problem of a large number of people evacuating in such circumstances, but also the difficulty of managing the numerous and complex radio communications. We were able to establish the importance of substantive work carried out in schools and the usefulness of a good knowledge of each other's work. From the point of view of intervention, from year to year, we have been able to observe the introduction of reflex mechanisms between colleagues, which makes it possible to react more quickly, as this type of situation demands. This year, we can again conclude that the complexity of these interventions requires regular training through the acquisition of these mechanisms. A debriefing has yet to be organised between all the parties involved in order to assess the various interventions and identify areas for improvement. For the same purpose, a debriefing is also planned with the school. Substantive work will then be undertaken within the police areas and in collaboration with violence control specialists to improve the points of attention identified. Exercises will be organised to verify their integration. Police academies hold training accreditation records for reactive and preventive police parties. The emphasis is on synergies with the education sector, with the police being one of the actors involved alongside the school directorates. Methods of collaboration were developed in 2010 with teachers, taking into account the particularities of the Communities. For the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, in 2012, the cabinet of the Minister of Education validated the establishment of a joint police and education working group, which made recommendations on the infrastructure aspect, internal emergency plans and the training of teaching staff. In June 2014, the Minister endorsed a model of preventive training for some faculty members or supervisors. For example, in November 2015, the Federation's mobile teams – i.e. staff working in institutions in the event of a crisis – were formed by a team composed of the local and federal police. It is expected that next March the same unit will provide two days of the same training for principals and prefects. At the local or regional level, various initiatives are being taken, mainly on the basis of requests from schools. Thus, for example, the Liège police area develops an information session for schools within its jurisdiction. The training is based on the preventive module I have just mentioned and the basic reactions to have in case of an incident. Further information sessions are planned in the East Walloon Brabant Police Area. Similarly, the Brussels Region is currently carrying out an identical reflection, always in collaboration with police academies and police reference persons. In addition, following the level of vigilance identified for terrorist threats, the Minister of Education issued a circular on 17 November 2015 drawing the attention of the teaching staff to security issues. They were encouraged to contact their local police, including through the "schools" contact point established in all police areas via circular PL41. Finally, useful general advice can be found in the specific brochures published by the Internal FPS, including a brochure on school security. At this stage, there is not yet a platform for exchanging good practice at national or Community level, but local initiatives seem to be better suited for this type of collaboration. For the Flemish Community, agreements were concluded in 2012. They related to the cooperation between the police and the Flemish Minister of Education's office on preventive measures to be taken in the event of an AMOK situation. In 2013, training was provided to prevention counsellors on measures to be taken at the infrastructure level, agreements to be concluded with the police, and integration of the problem into the internal emergency plan. Information sessions were given by province and this item was included in the Flemish Ministry of Education's manual. A second part, which dealt with the estimation of potential authoring risks, was prepared but never carried out since the project was put on hold by the Flemish Minister of Education. Meanwhile, the problem of integration of radicalisation has been taken up by the police in the checklist of the AMOK project and training. This checklist is used in the context of the assessment of potential risks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u110	Deputy Prime Minister, I wanted to thank you for these long answers to my short questions. But I am glad to see that you have paid particular attention to this. Although in Europe we have not yet experienced this kind of tragedy, unfortunately this is the case in the United States on a regular basis. Moreover, recent developments in the field of terrorism may also prompt us to reflect on these particular targets.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u111	Mr Minister, the police zone 5292 Weser-Göhl, which includes the municipalities of Eupen, Calamine, Raeren and Lontzen, presents the specificity of having common borders with the Federal Republic of Germany and the Netherlands. As such, this police area faces specific cross-border crime problems. In order to combat this insecurity, the Weser-Göhl police zone has taken several initiatives to intensify police cooperation between Belgium and Germany, through the conclusion of cooperation agreements with the Aachen police prefecture to establish joint patrols along the borders or the presence of Belgian and German police officers in large-scale cross-border operations. In addition, the police zone is also competent for federal extradition and surrender missions at the border. With the only official Belgian-German contact point on its territory, staff members face a considerable increase in the number of persons cared for, from 522 to 1492 between 2001 and 2014. Despite this substantial increase in the workload faced by the Weser-Göhl police area, as well as its obvious cross-border nature, the Royal Decree of 26 December 2015 granting the 2015 allocation for the "recruitment promotion" reduced the amounts allocated to it from 23,689 euros to 19,493 euros. Even more challenging, the police zone was not even detained as a border area under the said order, nor even in its addendum which was transmitted to me at the moment and appeared in the Monitor on 22 January. So Eupen still doesn't figure in it. However, the Eifel area, for example, was able to benefit from this specific federal recruitment promotion allocation. So my questions are quite simple. Minister, I would like to know why the staffing of the Weser-Göhl police force has been reduced. In the light of the above, could you consider an adjustment of this allocation so that it can effectively correspond to the specific tasks of its cross-border nature and to the tasks of the Weser-Göhl police area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u112	I do not come directly from the German-speaking Community but from the province of Liège and therefore my colleagues, and in particular the mayor acting as Eupen, have drawn my attention and indicated to me their misunderstanding of the decisions taken not to retain Weser-Göhl area 5292 as a border police zone, which means operational needs and a capacity mobilized in the fight against cross-border crime and terrorism. This area is not retained. The neighbouring area, 5291, is retained. Good for her and I really don't want to harm this other area, but what are the reasons why the Weser-Göhl area was not selected? There are only two border police areas with Germany. They have the same tasks and characteristics as other Belgian border police areas with other countries. The other areas have received the necessary subsidies and are recognized as border areas. I would like an explanation from you. I asked what the specific tasks and work carried out in the Weser-Göhl area were. It is cooperation with the Belgian-German police, it is mixed patrols, it is the systematic presence of Belgian and German police officers at important events of a cross-border nature, either in Aachen or in one of the four municipalities of the police zone. These are joint control actions to combat crime and road insecurity. It is also, as Mrs Jadin has said, the meeting of a federal mission to ensure extraditions (remises and recaptures) on the Belgian-German border, the only point where this can be done. These are daily contacts between the Bundespolizei and the police of the Weser-Göhl area. As a result, the workload has been increasing for years. Already in 2013, the then Minister of the Interior had not retained this area. She said that the financial resources were exhausted. She encouraged them to continue their work in the same way, indicating that later there would be reparation. Why is this area not being used as a border police zone? There is a decrease in the allocation for German-speaking cross-border municipalities for 2015. Does this result from the application of the KUL base or are other elements taken into account? If so, which ones? The limitation of the number of border areas having increased their allocation to 6 areas is based on an insufficiently estimated budget, or is there any other reason resulting from different practices? Finally, Germany has decided to re-establish border controls, which also has an impact on the workload? Could not part of the reserve of an additional 400 million for the police forces be used to correct this mistake and enable them to continue to fulfil their mission?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u113	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will first clarify and correct some of your statements. The allocation in question is not intended exclusively for the German-speaking border communes. Nor is it for the border communes of the whole country. Furthermore, the fact that the Weser-Göhl police zone has not received a specific amount through this allocation linked to the fight against cross-border crime does not in any way detract from its character as a border police zone. This allocation has a fixed amount and the share devoted to the needs related to the fight against cross-border crime is also fixed. We had to make a choice among all cross-border areas. Local police recruitment is composed mainly of two parts. The first part shall be broken down in proportion to the share of the basic allocation for each of the police areas. This first part was slightly reduced in 2015 compared to the previous year. This explains the reduction in the amount granted to the Weser-Göhl police zone. The second is distributed taking into account specific criteria or needs. Some means have been granted to strengthen cross-border areas, including the purchase of ANPR cameras. The logic followed in selecting these areas was geographical in nature. Indeed, the Government has opted for an additional amount for the areas in the south-east of the country comprising a united part of the Belgian border. The amount allocated allowed us to retain only six police zones, including the inclusion of the Eifel zone and the non-detention of Weser-Göhl. With the same criterion for granting this provision, it would be logical for the latter to be able to benefit from this additional amount in the next year. I will not fail to take this into account when granting this provision for 2016. Let me turn to your third question, Mrs Gerkens. This is certainly not an inadequately estimated budget. I refer you to my answer to your first question. In addition, I would like to point out that, through the supplementary allocation, this area has received an intervention of six full-time equivalents for cross-border posts, given that this is in principle a task of the federal police nevertheless fulfilled by these police areas, inter alia because of the linguistic specificity. Finally, as part of the federal plan against terrorism, it was decided to install ANPR cameras at 260 sites. The total budget is 8.5 million. Nor will I fail to take into account the situation in this area. At the moment, we have not yet taken a position on the execution and timing of this file. So we're going to pay for these 260 cameras by focusing on the border areas. There's a good chance this area will benefit.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u114	Minister, thank you for your answers and the details you give. Of course, the prospect is interesting to see that our area could soon benefit from the new provisions that you have just outlined. It must be said, however, that the demands that have been made specifically in relation to the recruitment that we are talking about today have already been the subject of promises in 2013. We answer every time things are done the following year. This year again, that is what is said, and then we see the additions coming out, and we wonder why criteria for one area are not for another. Is it due to the fact that some areas merge and could thus benefit from economies of scale so that they can be given other support, such as the one we are discussing. It must also be said, Mr Minister, since you have mentioned this, that the six full-time equivalents you have mentioned for the Weser-Göhl area which are allocated for border work in Lichtenbuch do not fall within the consideration of the elements I have just mentioned – and certainly not for the area because it suspected that it could be opposed that things were already happening. It should be noted that the workload has tripled over the last ten years. Thus, despite the full-time equivalents introduced in 2001, it is a matter of responding to a pressing need. It's not to cry because others have received something, which I'm happy about since it's still possible to improve the situation through the federal government. I do not know if you are still doing addenda or re-evaluation studies in relation to needs, but I think that we should consider the Weser-Göhl area in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u115	It is surprising, Minister, that in your answer, I did not receive any information that would allow me to say "that area is the one that has not received any specific increase and allocation compared to other areas recognized as border areas with specific needs and missions". There's a total sum. It is divided into six because the budget has had to be cut, insufficiently estimated or reduced according to the government's austerity objectives. The result is the same: you divide the budget. We can still hear it. But why is an area not retained? If there are any reasons, we have to give them. If there is none, one area cannot be discriminated against in relation to the others. In your answer, I didn't have any elements. How do you want me to go and defend in front of my colleagues and the authorities in this area the fact that they are promised that the next time, the area will be increased, even though in 2013 they were already promised it? The conclusion is that she has less. Again, there is a lack of arguments. Such a position is not defensible. Is it cameras that these areas need or human resources? I am unable to say that, but it is worth asking the question. I really invite you to argue or to fix this mistake with regard to this police area. As it is, it is not defensible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u116	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Hufkens' 8981 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u117	Minister, the Belgian section of the Down-Sec hacker group claimed to have carried out an attack on the website of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency during the night of 20-21 February. What exactly is the situation? What is the perimeter and vehicle of this attack? Who are the authors? How long did it last? What are the consequences of this attack? What measures have been taken to avoid such consequences in the future? When we know that AFCN's computer media have multiple files classified as confidential, when we also know that in the event of a nuclear problem, citizens are invited to consult AFCN's information online, we have the right to know how such an attack is possible and what are the guarantees that it will no longer produce the same damage (or even worse damage) in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u118	Mr Nollet, this Sunday, February 21, at around 5:10 a.m., the Information and Communications Technology (ICT) team of the Federal Agency for Nuclear Control (AFCN) was automatically alerted via its guard system that its internet lines were overloaded. The ICT team was then able to find that the Agency's website was the victim of attacks. These were denial-of-service attacks whose modus operandi consists in taking control of remote computers using malware in order to have them send multiple queries to a target network. This type of attack is not intended to break a network but to paralyze it and make it temporarily unavailable. The network that hosts the AFCN website is programmed to respond automatically to such attacks. This procedure worked correctly from the first attacks, but hackers continuously adapted their attacks. The ICT team has therefore decided to put the website itself offline, in order to protect the entire network. The ICT team contacted Belnet, its Internet service provider, which has more resources to deal with such attacks. Belnet reduced the vulnerability of the site. This solution made it possible to put the AFCN website online at around 10:45 a.m. Although the Down-Sec hacker collective claimed this piracy, the AFCN does not have any tangible evidence to support this claim. As for the duration of the attacks, it is impossible to determine it. In any event, AFCN and Belnet have decided to retain the protective measures implemented for a period of time. We know that DoS attacks rarely last long because of their cost to hackers. On Monday, February 22, AFCN contacted Belnet to review the situation and verify that it had returned to normal. Of course, the AFCN remains vigilant. This incident was quickly and effectively managed by the AFCN. It is also impossible to guard against this type of attack given the strike force of the hackers. However, a feedback will be organized at the AFCN to learn from this incident and to strengthen, where possible and necessary, the security of computer systems. At no time has AFCN's internal network been put in jeopardy, especially since the website is completely independent of this internal network.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u119	Mr Minister, you will recall that, in our previous committee, without knowing it, we have just discussed the weakness of our nuclear facilities in relation to a possible risk of cyberattack. We then referred, in room 8, to the international report. The first target was not nuclear power plants but the Federal Agency itself. Thank you for your answer and I hear what you're giving. I note, however, that thanks to the contacts and intervention of Belnet, the vulnerability of the site has been reduced. This means that he was previously more vulnerable and that, if a real policy to combat cyberattack had been put in place, we could have anticipated that. Already before the attack, we could have put the site not in a position of total invulnerability – we know it is difficult – but in a less vulnerable situation, a situation such as the one that resulted from Belnet's intervention. We must constantly anticipate this and not think of ourselves as safe. I would like to recall that in the event of a sensitive situation, the Federal Agency site is consulted to see what needs to be put in place. If an incident and an attack occur simultaneously, imagine what it could give.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic347x.u120	The last question would normally be Question No. 9608 of myself. Yesterday, however, I was hospitalized for a medical check-up and when I returned I heard in the news the communication on the measures taken. Minister, I was very pleasantly surprised. You have anticipated very correctly and decisively. Perhaps you had already seen my question, in addition to the fact that you are faced with the pressure of transit migrants on the coastal communities. As you have already anticipated my question, I put my oral question No. 9608 in a written question. After all, I assume that the answer you would give me today would be very similar to the communication that was distributed yesterday.
