ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic545x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs De Wit's 15196 has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic545x.u2	Minister, as part of the National Days of Prison, we visited the prison in Ittre on 18 November, with a number of MEPs, Mr President. During that visit there was also special attention for the Deradex section. In this deradicalization wing there are 20 places for radicalized persons, of which at that time 14 were occupied. According to the warden, it's not obvious to get those cells filled. We heard that today there would be a lack of guidance or an attempt to deradicalize them. In addition, we were told that the wing would exert a certain influence on the other inhabitants of the prison; more prisoners would practice. We were also told that there are occasional tensions in the visitors' room. There is an amalgamation of the prison as if there were all radicalized. I'm talking in the would-form, because it's about information that was given to us. Minister, some time ago you proposed your deradicalisation plan. An essential point in this regard is the provision of sufficient special and specific guidance for these detainees. First of all, are you aware of the situation outlined in the Ittre prison? Secondly, do the same problems occur in other prisons with such a wing? Thirdly, what initiatives are planned in the area of more appropriate guidance and at what time?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic545x.u3	At present there are indeed 14 prisoners in the Deradex department in Ittre and 9 in Hasselt. As regards the number of detainees in these departments, I would like to stress that filling these departments up to their full capacity is not an end in itself. Each placement is the result of a thorough screening. Only prisoners who are unable to stay in ordinary prisons for security reasons will be transferred to the Deradex Departments. As indicated in the Action Plan "Tackling radicalisation in prisons', this placement policy on radicalised persons fits in with a two-track policy. This initially provides for the maximum integration of these detainees into ordinary departments, in so far as it is considered that the radicalisation process can be controlled. Where this is not possible and where the prisoner poses a serious risk of radicalisation, active or passive, and where he is further engaged in an armed struggle for ideological reasons, the prisoner may be referred to a department where a specialised approach can be provided. In other words, the placement in the Deradex department should not be the rule. When 23 radicalised people reside in this department, as opposed to about 160 prisoners who are currently in prison because of facts related to this, the policy of placement is evidence of this ambition. The fact that having such a department in prison has an impact on other prisoners cannot be denied, but we also note this influence in other establishments where prisoners with such profiles reside. It goes without saying that the phenomenon of extremism and radicalism is widely in the spotlight and therefore affects the minds. There are undoubtedly prisoners who reflect on these high profile prisoners and wish to show some degree of copycat behavior and thus contribute to a perception of the extent of a phenomenon which cannot be sufficiently objectiveised by other data. However, I cannot say that the Hasselt and Ittre establishments have more and more serious incidents due to the presence of Deradex departments than others. Indeed, the action plan to which I referred also provided a specialized framework for an individualised approach and for the development of deradicalisation and disengagement programmes as key pillars. It is undoubtedly true that important steps still need to be taken in this area. The development of this guidance is a competence which I share with my fellow Members of the Communities, who are responsible for helping and providing services to prisoners. I can confirm that we are working on a common roadmap which will include all the initiatives needed to tackle the problem of extremism and radicalism, and in particular how cooperation between federal and Community services can be optimised. Moreover, this initiative on my proposal was launched at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Justice Houses on 5 December. In addition to the specific guidance programmes referred to earlier, however, there is also, no less important, an offer of more regular activities for those inmates. Sport, employment and other activities in the regime are also offered to those inmates. In addition, nine Islam consultants are recruited who are currently participating in intensive individual and collective training on radicalisation by an international team of experts, together with existing Islam consultants. They will then be able to contribute from their specific point of view to the overall approach of those detainees.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic545x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for the state of play. I hope that the common road map, which still has to be drawn up, can be put in place in the near future, just like Islam consultants. Of course, the intention is that such prisoners should leave the prison less dangerous than they have entered. This is an important task, which has yet to be carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic545x.u5	Mr Terwingen is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic545x.u6	Mr President, Minister, through the law on the family court, since 1 September 2014, a number of fundamental changes have been made. One of the provisions is the personal appearance of the parties when talking about the children. In practice, this legal provision is applied very differently. In some courts the parties are required to be present at each hearing, including those on which the case is only allowed, while other courts decide that the parties should be present only at the time the case is brought before the court. That is why Parliament took an initiative to amend the law, in the sense that the personal appearance is no longer required at the sitting at which the matter is only allowed. The opinion of the Order of Flemish Desktops points out the wide variety of practices, and states that it is difficult for both lawyers and law-seekers to know the proper way of working, and that in certain cases legal certainty is also affected. Minister, how do you feel about the suggestion in the bill? Are you planning any initiative to streamline the different practices?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic545x.u7	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, I am aware of the different application of Article 1253ter/2 of the Code of the Court of Justice in the various arrondissements, as has also been shown by the Court of Justice in various family courts in all districts, which was organised following the legislative proposal to amend the Code of the Court of Justice as regards the personal appearance in family matters, tabled by representatives of Lahaye-Battheu, Van Cauter, Becq, Goffin and Van Vaerenbergh. This diverse application is not surprising in itself. The legislator has given the family courts a lot of policy space to organise their own proper functioning. There is no uniform application in practice as regards the organisation of the opening hearing and the hearing of the minor, the functioning of the friendly settlement chamber and, more recently, the disclosure in family matters of minors. However, the request for the parties to appear personally in family cases and thus the different application of Article 1253ter/2 of the Code of Justice in practice is directly linked to the way in which the family court in question organises its opening hearing. Thus, on the one hand, there are arrondissements or jurisdictions where only the matter is prepared at the opening session and where it could be argued that a personal appearance of the parties does not make much sense. On the other hand, there are also districts or jurisdictions where the inaugural session is just taken as a moment to meet the parties and to hear them. Some magistrates are also trying to settle for the inaugural session. However, the above-mentioned inquiry conducted at the 12 courts of first instance in response to the draft law on personal appearance shows that this measure of the parties' personal appearance leads to more agreements, which can only be encouraged. There is therefore clearly a positive trend in family affairs, especially in cases where the parties appear immediately before the court and the opening hearing is not systematically reduced to the state of the case. This progress is in line with the intentions of the legislator who, in family matters, wanted to give priority to friendly solutions such as mediation and amicable settlement. See, inter alia, Article 731 of the Civil Code. In this respect, it is difficult to predict when an introductory hearing concerns only the state of the case, unless the court would be organised in such a way that attention is only paid to the status of the hearing. I therefore do not think that a change of law is appropriate in this respect. However, the further streamlining of practice and the implementation of good practice in all family courts are indeed desirable. For this reason, this point is further discussed at the next meeting of the working group which was set up and is composed of various actors from the field of practice, representatives of the different orders of lawyers, the Child Rights Commissioner, the Délégué aux droits de löfenfant, the Supreme Court of Justice and the members of my administration, as well as within the family court working group within the judicial order. Both working groups analyse and discuss this way of working in the various arrondissements with the aim of achieving more uniformity in the functioning of family courts, in the light of the spirit of the law that encourages friendly solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic545x.u8	Minister, I have listened carefully to your reply. I can only say that in practice, on the ground, it is difficult to explain to the right-wingers that they must be present personally at a sitting at 9 a.m. and sometimes there must wait until 12.30 p.m. only to hear that a calendar has been established in their case and that the case will be called for three months later. You yourself said that some courts have a habit of preparing cases only when the children are heard and when conclusions are exchanged. Well, on the ground, I have heard that in such cases too personal appearance is sometimes required. Then it makes me sad to be part of the Justice Department, because I can't explain that to people. They are also rebellious about it. So I'm gonna make a call to really do something about that. I thought the proposal was a correct reflection of how we both see it. You also said that people should not actually be present at the sitting on which the matter is merely being prepared. That was actually the content of the proposal. I am glad, however, that you do not simply push this issue aside and that the discussion continues. I can tell you that there is a great deal of frustration today with those who have to take three or four leave to appear before the family court, when they should only be there once, especially if the case is appropriate or if there is a plea.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic545x.u9	Mr President, Minister, I refer to the government agreement, which states that legislation on the age of sexual majority will be harmonised. I also refer to a number of your announcements, last December. I would have liked to know what the situation is. Will you take an initiative? Will there be a bill? If so, what is the timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic545x.u10	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, the subject of sexual adulthood is being discussed and prepared in the context of the Commission's experts' work on criminal justice reform. Punishment provisions and penalties for Book II of the Criminal Code are currently under discussion. A coherent proposal will be prepared by the experts. At the moment, I prefer to await their findings.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic545x.u11	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic545x.u12	Mr President, this question was also inspired by the visit to the Ittre prison. This visit focused on the theme of recidivism, on which we do not get good grades with our country. Figures about which Het Laatste Nieuws reported in October show that the number of convicts who again go bad in five years has doubled. In concrete terms, this is one in twenty cases. Unlike other European countries, I know that we have still not investigated the causes of the increased recurrence. Reference is made, among other things, to the lack of punishment. During our visit we also pointed out the lack of own resources available to prisoners when released, which increases the risk of recidivism. They are supposed to shut the prison door behind them and have to play their part again in society, but they often do not have a savings fund to finance the necessary initial costs. Would it not be appropriate to systematically block a certain percentage of the income generated by many prisoners from prison work until their release? Then there is a little money to return to life in our society. Minister, how do you feel about this proposal? What's the average a convict can earn on a monthly basis? With regard to the increasing number of repeaters, I have two questions. What do you think are the main causes and what measures do you intend to take in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic545x.u13	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, it is difficult to provide relevant information on the allowances that prisoners can receive, because the real income of detainees is subject to too many variables. However, I will provide you with the different rates of fees currently in force. For the purpose of following qualified vocational training, the inmate receives between EUR 0.62 and EUR 0.75 per hour, for the performance of household tasks between EUR 0.80 and EUR 2 per hour, with an average of EUR 1 per hour, for work in the workshop commissioned by external companies between EUR 1.5 and EUR 3 per hour, with an average of EUR 2.20 per hour. If the fee is calculated according to the production, the so-called piecework, the fee may amount to 4 euros per hour. The idea of creating a piggy bank was the reality in a not so far past. In application of Articles 66 to 69 of the Royal Decree of 21 May 1965 laying down general rules for the criminal institutions and in application of Article 105 of the Ministerial Decree of 12 July 1971 laying down general instructions for the criminal institutions, a ministerial letter of inquiry stipulated that the funds of the inmate were to be divided into, on the one hand, deposited funds or those held by the inmate at the time of detention and, on the other hand, the funds acquired by employment or received through the family and, on the other hand, the reserved part, the percentage of the allowances acquired by employment determined by the inmate and partly by the director, and that only by way of exemption could be handed over to the inmate. When the law of 12 January 2005, the so-called basic law, and more specifically Article 46, was introduced, this division was abolished and the prisoner could freely dispose of the funds in his account. This option is in line with the general principles on which the basic law is based and with regard to the standardisation and accountability principles in particular. The weakening of this logic must therefore be done with the greatest care. Nevertheless, I share your concern that inmates are best prepared to return to society and that everything must be done to ensure that the re-classification plan that has been worked intensively during detention is not hypothesized by risks that may make social reintegration more difficult. The absence of any financial capacity is certainly such a risk. I would therefore like the administration to analyse the desirability and feasibility of taking an initiative regarding the management of the funds of the detainees, while respecting the principles on which the basic law is based. On your second question, I would like to say the following. Without proper scientific research, it does not seem obvious to me to make statements about the causes of repeated crime. However, it seems obvious to me that there is an amalgamation of elements that are not confined to the prison system. It is clear that there is still a great deal of work to be done to accompany and assist detainees during the detention period. This is a task which I share with my fellow Members of the Communities, who are responsible for helping and providing services to the detainees and to which we are working together. It seems to me to be an obvious objective to bring together even more all the social services that have been committed with perpetrators of crime or should have been committed from an inclusive vision of society, in order to identify ways to optimise the supervision of perpetrators of crime in general and of detainees in particular. Instruments such as case management seem to be very useful for this in some other countries, but show that continuity in guidance is crucial and, to be successful, needs to be in place before, during and after detention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic545x.u14	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I would particularly like to thank you for announcing that you will have an analysis carried out to see to what extent the savings that existed before 2005 can be re-implemented, of course with respect for the current legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic545x.u15	Then we come to your question No. 15210 on the legal language of the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic545x.u16	Mr President, I would like to turn my question into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic545x.u17	Mr Minister, a great deal has been announced in the last few weeks on road fines. Immediate collections proposed by the police increase or become 5 % more expensive in 2017. The fines imposed by the judge are now factor 6 and would be multiplied by factor 7 from 2017. Those who do not pay a traffic fine will see that amount increased by 35% from July 2017. In addition, the payer is ordered to pay, which has been drawn up by the court, so that the FPS Finance can claim a forced payment. In your communication, you also emphasised the administrative correspondence via bpost and no longer through police and police, so that police and police can focus on their core tasks, which is a good thing. However, according to experts, higher fines will have little impact on road safety. Our police judges point out that the fines are already very high compared to the fines in respect of correcting cases. At a session of the Chamber of Justice in October 2016, I already referred to that criticism. We need tailor-made punishments, which are pronounced within a reasonable time between the transgression on the one hand and the punishment on the other. In addition, penalties must be enforceable. Our legislation must lead to more discipline and not to more punishment avoidance. It is assumed that police judges will resort more to alternative punishments, such as community service. Answers to written parliamentary questions from the past show that Walloon police judges use these alternative penalties much more than Flemish judges. I have a written question pending since the beginning of April 2016 to obtain the figures for 2013 to 2015 in the field of work sentences issued by police judges. In addition, the Driver Improvement department of the BIVV organises awareness-raising courses. I have four questions in that regard. Firstly, can you explain the measures in detail? Secondly, how else will administrative handling proceed? When will she change? To what extent is there consultation with the Minister of the Interior in this respect? Thirdly, are you planning initiatives to encourage alternative sanctions, in addition to measures relating to fines? Fourthly, can you describe in globo the evolution of the number of working sentences in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic545x.u18	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, during the recent budgetary conclave, the government adopted four important measures aimed at improving the collection and recovery of traffic and penalty fines. A first measure consists of increasing the penalty fines by 70 odds, which means that the multiplication factor of all fines pronounced by the court increases from six to eight times. In order to meet the traffic fines, all traffic fines will be increased by 5 % from 1 January 2017. The ordinary fine is then 52.50 euros instead of 50.00 euros. In addition to the increase in tariffs, the cross-border project has been decided which, in addition to making the work process of collecting traffic fines for Belgians and foreigners more efficient, contains three measures for better enforcement. Firstly, the use of the ANPR scanners of customs can now be used for all financial penalties and not just for traffic fines. Secondly, the States 204 are sent from Finance to Justice by electronic means, so that justice can carry out the replacement sentence. Thirdly, from mid-2017 onwards, the Public Prosecutor will be able to issue payment orders, which gives Finance a strong enforceable title to be enforced if necessary. At the payment order stage, the fine will indeed be increased by 35%. It is therefore advisable to quickly pay the immediate collection, the recall or the amicable settlement. Previously, non-payers had to be brought before the police judge, who drew up an enforceable title by way of a judgment, which is a particularly labour-intensive way of enforcing forfeiture of money debts. The renewed work process of the cross-border project should allow the elimination of the prosecution quotas currently used by the police and prosecutors to make the workload feasible. Full computerization ensures that there is little manual work left for both police and prosecutors, allowing both to focus on their core tasks, being the findings by the police and prosecutions and bringing them to justice if necessary by the prosecutor. The administrative tasks remaining, such as printing and sending the immediate collections, friendly settlements and orders to pay, are carried out by bpost. The determination remains a core task of the police and prosecution policy remains a core task of the Public Prosecutor's Office. From now on, the public prosecutor will have an authentic database containing the fines of each of them, so as to be better able to deal with repeated infringements and to take into account the payment of previous fines by the offender or not. The new work process also achieves administrative simplification, which significantly reduces costs. The minutes and the proposal for immediate collection will be sent to the offender in one envelope, unlike today; now this is done in two consignments. To answer your questions about alternative penalties: the purpose of the punishment in traffic matters is always to change behaviour in order to improve road safety. That is why the Justice Department is still funding the supervision of alternative criminal measures in the context of traffic. Through the Communities, Justice subsidises the BIVV and Pro Velo, the cities and municipalities and non-profit organisations that have set up an advisory service for alternative judicial measures. The abolition of prosecution quotas will result in more fines and a zero tolerance for traffic offences of any kind. It remains the wisdom of the independent judge to impose alternative penalties if the individual case shows that this is the most appropriate solution to force someone to behave in a safe manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic545x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic545x.u20	Question No 15214 by Mrs Özlem Özen is postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Stefaan Van Hecke's 15215 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic545x.u21	Mr President, Minister, I will return to the matter that has been before us since three committees. You give me interesting information each time, which raises new questions. I come back, first of all, to the potential prescription date in the Chodiev file, based on the information you gave me on 23 November. More specifically, you indicated that the Attorney General of Brussels indicated that the analysis of the possible statute of limitations was conducted by the Chamber of Counsel, which concluded that the last interruptive act of limitation was the indictment of the King's Prosecutor dated 29 February 2008. On the understanding that the limitation period is five years in such financial cases, this would mean that the case in question could not have been prescribed, in the absence of a new effective interruptive act (which could have extended the limitation period) until March 2013, well after the time when the criminal transaction was concluded, that is, June 2011. On the other hand, it is surprising that the three-year period between February 29, 2008 (last act) and December 23, 2012 (registration of the case for the first time in the Board Chamber before reaching a referral order). Minister, based on the above, can you confirm the date of March 2013 as the date on which, all other things being equal, the prescription would have been acquired in the Chodiev file? Can you tell me what explains the nearly three-year delay between the King's Prosecutor's Motion and putting this case on the agenda in the Chamber of Counsel? Is it due to the initiatives of the defendants' lawyers or does it find its explanation elsewhere? What is the average time, at the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office, between the King's Prosecutor's Motion and the decision of the Chamber of Counsel, particularly in financial cases? That was my first question. My second question concerns, Mr. Minister, the publicity of the proceedings before the indictment chamber and the pre-trial detention of the accused in the Chodiev case. In particular, you have indicated, quoting the Prosecutor General of Brussels, that the proceedings before the Indictments Chamber take place in camera and are therefore covered by professional secrecy, but that you could, however, clarify that the pre-trial proceedings against the accused were not of a fiscal nature. I am surprised, first of all, that the Brussels Prosecutor General considers that the proceedings before the Indictments Chamber are covered by professional secrecy. Does he not confuse in camera and professional secrecy? I note, in any case, that in the SocGen case we have dealt with in committee, his colleague from Antwerp is much more precise about the reasons which led to a criminal transaction, despite the existence of the same procedure behind closed doors. Despite the fact that he considers this to be a matter of professional secrecy, the Brussels Prosecutor General tells us that the preventions taken against the accused were not of a fiscal nature. Minister, what about the publicity, with regard to Parliament, of the proceedings before the indictment chamber? In your view, does the in camera procedure justify professional secrecy? What information may or may not be provided to Parliament? Moreover, if we know that the preventive measures taken against the accused were not of a fiscal nature, we do not know what they were in the end? Can the Prosecutor-General in Brussels specify this or, even better, can you clarify it? Were false and false acts retained at this stage? What other criminally punishable acts were held at this stage of the proceedings? This brings me to my third question, which relates to the use of exceeding the reasonable time limit to justify the legality of the transaction and of the judgment of the Court of Appeal of 30 June 2011 in the same file. In this connection, you cited the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office by stating that Article 216a, as amended by Article 84 of the Law of 14 April 2011 on various provisions, read in conjunction with Article 21ter of the Code of Criminal Investigation (exceeding the reasonable period of time), provided a sufficient legal basis to justify the use of the transaction procedure in this particular case as it stood in June 2011. The legal analysis was carried out by the Public Prosecutor's Office and was shared by the Indictments Chamber of the Brussels Court of Appeal, which found that the public action had been terminated. I was surprised, minister, at the sitting, by the creativity and use of section 21ter of the Code of Criminal Investigation, which amounts to giving the judge special powers and which, in my view, does not address the illegality of the transaction. I have been joined on this subject by various jurists including Me Chomé who spoke in La Libre Belgique this weekend. I quote: "It looks very much like an explanation made after the fact." You will agree with me that Me Chomé is an authoritative person. Moreover, according to the Code of Criminal Investigation, it is the substantive judge who may, according to the case law of the Court of Cassation, take account of a possible exceedance of the reasonable time limit. It is therefore not up to the Prosecutor's Office to prejudge this, as it seems and according to the answer you provided to me, was the case in this case, at least at the time of the criminal transaction on 17 June. I would like some clarification, if possible on your part and not on the part of the General Prosecutor's Office in Brussels, on this legal explanation. Minister, is it customary to use a "joint" reading of section 21ter of the Code of Criminal Investigation with other sections of the Code to mitigate the scope of those sections of the Code? In how many criminal cases has this been carried out over the past five years? In your view, can the argument of exceeding the reasonable time limit compensate for the absence of a legal basis for a judgment of the Court of Appeal confirming a criminal transaction on 30 June 2011? Do you confirm that, if necessary, only the judge, and not the public prosecutor, could (without obligation) establish an exceedance of the reasonable time limit? Do you not consider, in this case, that the Attorney-General's Office erred in signing, on 17 June 2011, an amicable transaction in a case involving, inter alia, the use of forgery, and thus a potential prison sentence, which the law did not cover at that date? I turn to my fourth attached question concerning the amount and details of the criminal transaction in the Chodiev case. As part of our exchange last Wednesday, you did not wish to confirm to me the amount of 23 million euros which is regularly cited in this file as the one corresponding to the criminal transaction. I'd like to go back. After some research, it turns out that on 13 November 2012, in response to a question from my excellent colleague, Stefaan Van Hecke, Minister Turtelboom confirmed that the first criminal transaction concluded at the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office concerning seven defendants had been concluded for an amount of 22,194,226 euros. Everyone had deduced that it was the Chodiev file, which has not been denied since then. According to the information published on Friday 25 November by the Vif/L'Express and De Standaard, this criminal transaction would have brought only €3.5 million to the State and not close to €23 million. According to the text of the transaction that these two media were able to consult, Mr Chodiev and the other six accused paid a fine of 522,500 euros each, plus a legal fee of 251 000 euros. According to these newspapers, the confusion with the amount of €23 million previously quoted would come from an agreement with the tax authorities in the mid-2000s. Mr Chodiev and his associates would therefore have paid a total of EUR 26.5 million to the Belgian State, but only EUR 3.5 million in the criminal case. By way of a communication to the Belga agency, on Friday at the end of the day, the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office claims, on the other hand, that an amount of EUR 22 million was paid by the defendants by bank transfer after giving up property benefits. This money has been paid into the account of the receiver of the criminal fines, supports the Attorney General's Office. The payment of this sum was one of the conditions issued by the Public Prosecutor's Office. He stated that the indictments chamber had found that these conditions had been complied with. You will agree, minister, that a cat would not find his youth there. It is important, given the sensitivity of this case, to make all the clarity and to distinguish between the tax due, the tax supplement and the criminal fine paid. Minister, what about the amount actually paid by the various defendants in the file called "Chodiev"? Can you detail this amount per defendant on the basis of taxes owing, possible tax supplements, criminal fines and court fees? Do you confirm that this transaction also included a "real estate seizure" component? What were the properties? What then happened? Have they been resold? If so, when and for what amount? Has this transaction agreement been the subject of a formal ISI agreement? In order to shed light on this matter, can the Attorney-General's Office transmit the text of the transaction to Parliament? This will prevent us from playing cat and mouse through different questions. Finally, I come to an aspect that has not yet been addressed, namely the transmission of a fact sheet of the Sûreté de l'État to the French Minister of the Interior by Mr. De Decker, who was then a senator. In an article in the Vif/L'Express, under the title "Le déjeuner chez Claude Guéant", quoting French sources, journalist Thierry Denoël states that on the occasion of a luncheon at the beginning of 2011 with the French Minister of the Interior of the time, Claude Guéant, Mr.Armand De Decker, then senator, "distributed to Mr. Guéant a fact sheet of the Belgian State Security on an individual, "V". Clearly, if the facts are confirmed, there is a non-compliance with the Act of 11 December 1998 on classification and authorizations, certificates and security notices and, more specifically, its articles 23 and 24 on secrecy, which I mention in the written version of my question. Do you confirm that the transmission of a Belgian State Security card is illegal? Can you tell me if Mr. De Decker had a security clearance in early 2011? If necessary, Mr. Did De Decker at the same time have an official mandate to hand over a security card to the French Minister of the Interior, Mr Guéant? Can you indicate to me the internal procedures for the State Security regarding the printing and distribution of such security cards? Is it possible to verify a posteriori how such information would have been made available to Mr. De Decker so he could hand it over to Mr. Guéant himself? Has this control been carried out? On the basis of the information published by Le Vif, has a specific investigation been carried out to clarify these specific facts and, where appropriate, to apply the sanctions provided for in article 24 of the law against the person or persons responsible for this breach of secrecy? If so, by which court and what is the status of this procedure? Minister, I also wanted to ask you about the visits of lawyers to the personal home of the Minister of Justice. In the Chodiev case, it is clear that the defendants' lawyers or those who claimed to be the defendants' lawyers or some of them, visited the personal home of the then Minister of Justice. It was a Sunday and the minister was Stefaan De Clerck. These facts shall be proved and admitted, including by the persons concerned. Mr. M.'s new lawyer. De Decker, interviewed about Bel RTL, put the facts into perspective by saying that she had already met with a minister in relation to a specific case. I was surprised as a citizen and representative. Minister, since you have been Minister of Justice, have you ever received visits from lawyers at your home on ongoing cases? How much? A Sunday or a week? What is your attitude in this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic545x.u22	Mr Gilkinet, in answer to your questions, apart from the last, the Brussels Prosecutor General sent me the following message: "The Committee on Justice adopted on 29 November the principle of the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry dealing in particular with the circumstances surrounding the extended criminal transaction of 17 June 2011. It seems assumed that the House will vote on this proposal in plenary next Thursday. In this context, I therefore intend to reserve my answers to the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, a more appropriate framework for clarifying the questions that Mr Gilkinet would still be asking despite my previous answers." As far as I am concerned, since all your questions are directly or indirectly related to the Chodiev dossier, and in part have already been asked during the committees which have been held over the last three weeks, you will understand that I refer you to the minutes of these meetings in which I have answered, as you know, in the most complete way possible. These responses can be clarified, commented on and contextualised during the Committee of Inquiry which the Parliament will establish, which will not only provide the necessary clarity, but also provide the necessary time to further explain the complex legal mechanisms which have been implemented in the context of this dossier. With regard to your last question, which is addressed to me personally, I can answer "no" to the first question, and the second question is therefore irrelevant.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic545x.u23	Mr Minister, it is definitely a bad habit, at the General Prosecutor's Office in Brussels, to apply the law before it is applied and before it exists. In this case, the chairman of this committee does not witness this because he had left her, but he is informed, like all of us, that there was indeed an agreement yesterday in the Committee on Justice to set up a committee of inquiry. But the act that actually creates it will be put to the vote by the plenary on Thursday. This question is being asked, and Wednesday is before Thursday, in our calendar. It is quite valid, and is not covered by the future and potential - more than potential - existence of a commission of inquiry. In addition, you will allow me to consider that while some of my questions are intended to clarify what was said last Wednesday, others are new, in particular the one relating to the transmission by Mr. From Decker to the Minister of the Interior of a neighbouring State. It is a subject that has not yet been dealt with. I have no doubt that he will be in the committee of inquiry, but he certainly deserved an answer from you. I hope that I am not the only one in this State to worry about an act that is also not in conformity, not only with our laws, but also with propriety - given such delicate data. Finally, with respect to the only question you have answered, I note that, since you took office, the standard is not that lawyers come to the home of the Minister of Justice to maintain a particular case. That seems to me, to be true, perfectly normal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic545x.u24	Question No 15242 by Mrs Jadin is transformed into a written question.
