ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic546x.u1	Madam Secretary, the two questions I have asked are the same ones. I will ask them at once, because I had put one question to the Minister of Finance, but he referred me to you. That is why I am addressing my question to you. On 4 July, the Minister of Finance signed a Royal Decree on the facilitation of tax-free shopping at the airport. There used to be a VAT exemption from 125 euros. The Royal Decree of the Minister of Finance reduced that threshold to 50 euros. The new scheme started on 17 July 2016. The scheme has a negative budgetary impact according to the Treasury Inspectorate. This is also noted in an opinion of the Council of State. This means that, as the Minister for the Budget, you had to agree to the measure. However, the Council of State notes that you have not given your agreement on this measure. In fact, you gave a negative opinion on the measure. The reason for your negative opinion was that the measure was not decided in the budgetary control a few months earlier and that the measure was not part of the plan to push the companies in the airport after the attacks. For example, the Council of State quotes from the opinion of the Minister for the Budget. However, the Minister for Finance has not taken much interest in this. On 7 July, the Royal Decree was published in the Belgian Official Journal. From 17 July there will therefore be a VAT exemption from EUR 50 instead of EUR 125, without agreement from you as Minister of the Budget and without the KB being brought to the Council of Ministers, as the procedure requires in the event of a negative opinion from the Minister of the Budget. On 15 December the government then regularized the illegal royal decree of Johan Van Overtveldt. The Council of Ministers decided to regularise a measure which had been in force three months before. We note that nothing was said in the official press release about the whole history of the decision. So the Minister of Finance pushed through a measure that costs money. He ignored your negative advice as Minister of the Budget. He does not comply with the budgetary rules. A few months later, the whole government is correcting the measure. Madam Minister, what is the budgetary impact of the above mentioned KB on the tax-free threshold and who calculated that impact? Why didn't you reverse the decision of the Minister of Finance by the government? Why didn't you stick to your first negative advice? What measures will you take to ensure that your ministers follow at least the budgetary rules in future? If every minister, despite a negative opinion, is allowed to publish KBBRs on his own initiative, then I do not think the budget will look good, although I sometimes wonder if it can look even worse than it is now. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic546x.u2	Mrs Kitir, the publication in the Belgian Official Journal of the Royal Decree in question is the result of an administrative error which the Federal Public Service Finance and myself regret. This procedural error has indeed been corrected since the Royal Decree was repealed and corrected by the Council of Ministers of 15 September 2016. The budgetary impact, as estimated by the FPS Finance and approved by the Finance Inspectorate, was 1 619 246.20 euro on an annual basis. I'll give you the right figures on paper. As far as your last question is concerned, every day my cabinet deals with dozens of files without the slightest problem where my agreement is requested in accordance with the Royal Decree of 16 November 1994 on administrative and budgetary control. There is, of course, no question of the government accepting that the opinion of the Minister for the Budget, who guarantees the procedures and decisions taken jointly, is unilaterally exceeded in the context of administrative and budgetary control.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic546x.u3	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I am pleased to learn from your last remark that you will ensure that the budgetary rules are followed and that the opinion of the Minister for the Budget is followed or at least respected by a discussion at the Council of Ministers. I sincerely hope that will be the case. If the figures are not correct, then you should show up to explain to the media what is causing this. If the ministers ignore your advice and opt for measures with no small impact on our budget in this case, EUR 1.6 million, that is not nothing, then I regret that way of working. I hope something like this only happens once.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic546x.u4	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 13296 is converted into a written question. Mrs Van Hoof is not present, so her question No. 14709 is hereby repealed.
