ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u1	Mr Prime Minister, I would like to congratulate you on the birth of your daughter, on a personal and on behalf of the members of the committee and the services. For me, the name Jeanne was very successful, it is my grandmother's name. I hope that mother and child do very well and that the child may grow up in much prosperity, happiness and wisdom to the joy of her parents. We can now begin the work of the committee. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Luykx's 6371 question was converted into a written question. Interpellation No. Mr Blanchart's 91th meeting was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u2	Mr President, Prime Minister, in my turn and on behalf of my group, I would like to congratulate you on the arrival of little Jeanne. I wish you and your whole family much happiness. My question is about the endowments to the royal family. You are aware that these endowments have been thoroughly reformed under the previous government. They are obviously subject to tax. Moreover, future princes, non-heirs, will no longer be entitled to it. There was also a desire to make the use of staffing more transparent by asking the royal family to complete an annual report. This report shall contain information on the use of the envelope allocated to it to cover its operating and staff costs. Today, we see that this change is useful. Indeed, it would appear that Prince Laurent declared certain expenses that would not be related to his professional activity. Prime Minister, if I read the press correctly, you reacted directly. Can you confirm to me that some of these expenses were not related to Prince Laurent's professional activity and that you requested reimbursement? Has this refund been made correctly? Should not a system of sanctions be considered if staffing is not used for professional purposes?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u3	Mr.President, dear colleague, the November 2013 law concerning the endowments and allowances granted to members of the royal family as well as the transparency of the funding of the monarchy aims at greater control and transparency in the financing of the royal family. The new legislation limits the allocation to the crown's only presumptive heirs, as well as to surviving spouses or spouses. There is also a double check which is provided for by the Federal Chambers, on the one hand, and by the Court of Auditors, on the other. The 2014 report on the activities of the members of the royal family covered by this provision was forwarded, as provided for in section 15 of the Act, to the federal chambers on October 2, 2015. In addition, the law provides that the first President and the President of the Court of Auditors shall examine the legality and regularity of expenditure charged to the operating and personal share. The allocations as referred to in section 2 of the Act consist of two parts: the processing part, which is subject to income tax, and the part related to operating and personnel expenses. As regards the legality and regularity of Prince Laurent's expenditure for 2014, I have been informed by the Court of Auditors of certain irregularities in the proportion of its allocation relating to operating and staff expenditure. The law, by not providing for ex post audit of the Court of Auditors, and the Court of Auditors is not justified in refusing to validate an amount, I took the initiative to suggest that the amount in question be repaid. I have therefore written to the Court of Auditors in order to know the amount concerned in order to be able to communicate this amount to Prince Laurent. Since then, this amount, amounting to EUR 16,093 for 2014, has been fully repaid as of 6 January 2016. Finally, with regard to measures that could be taken for the future, there is no provision in the government agreement on this subject. This is the first time that such a situation has occurred since this legislation is new and it is also the first time that members of the royal family have to report on their activities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u4	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. This shows the relevance and effectiveness of the reform we have put in place. I would like to welcome your decision to apply for the refund. I think that was a strong example. I invite you to remain vigilant and to continue to pay attention to the fact that there may still be excesses in the future. With regard to possible further reform, since some parties have tabled proposals, we are not in favour of it because the current reform has proved its usefulness.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u5	Mr President, these are questions that date back a little. We have already been able to discuss this at meetings of the opinion committee responsible for European issues, but I wanted to keep these issues alive because it allows us to take stock of the situation. The first inquiry concerned the Summit held in Valletta, which had brought together European and African heads of state and government to discuss the migration crisis. At the Summit, a fund was established to help African countries address the root causes of migration. A budget of 1.8 billion would have already been released, which should be doubled with the contribution of the Member States. An action plan was also adopted at the conclusion of this brief 48-hour meeting. Prime Minister, can you tell us more about the implementation of this action plan and the contribution our country has made? At this meeting, we also talked a lot about hotspots. This was again discussed in the opinion committee on European issues. I would have liked to have an update on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u6	The Valletta Summit on Migration brought together European and African countries on 11 and 12 November in Malta. In the face of the migration crisis, the European Union has set itself the objective of working on this external dimension. It is therefore a matter of strengthening cooperation with the countries of origin of migration in Africa and also with the transit countries. A declaration and plan of action were adopted at the Summit. Belgium called for an action plan that is as concrete and as operational as possible to avoid generalities. The existing mechanisms, the Rabat process, Khartoum and the joint EU-Africa strategy will be used to monitor and monitor the implementation of the plan. This plan reflects the delicate balance between European commitments to legal migration and African commitments to the return and readmission policy of irregular migrants. For the content of the plan, it is structured around 5 areas. First, address the root causes of migration and forced displacement. I am thinking here of conflicts and extreme poverty. To this end, an emergency trust fund of €1.8 billion is mobilised for stability and the fight against the root causes of irregular migration. This trust fund will fund projects to create employment and support basic services for local populations. The Belgian Government has decided to contribute EUR 10 million to this fund, which ranks Belgium among the largest national contributors. I would add that these amounts, 1.8 billion, are in addition to the amounts already mobilised by the European Union and by the countries in the framework of development cooperation policies. Secondly, to establish and organise lawful immigration channels. Particular attention is given to the question of researchers and students. Thirdly, to strengthen the protection of migrants and asylum seekers. The European Union is conducting two maritime operations in the Mediterranean coordinated by Frontex, Triton and Poseidon, and has tripled the capabilities and means of these operations for 2015 and 2016. Fourthly, to prevent irregular migration, smuggling of migrants and trafficking in human beings in order to combat these two phenomena. Two missions focused on the smuggling of migrants at sea and on land have been set up. Fifthly, to improve cooperation on return and readmission. The European Union negotiates and enters into readmission agreements with the countries of origin of irregular migrants, which lay down the rules for their return. This last point is particularly important for Belgium, which has stressed the need for concrete commitments on this return and readmission policy. In addition, a Summit between Heads of State and Government was held with Turkey on 29 November 2015. I have already had the opportunity to debrief on this Summit at the opinion committee of 8 December 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u7	Mr President, I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. I do indeed have a question on the Turkey summit in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u8	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Gabriels 7697 will be answered by the Minister for Defence. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Gabriels' 7699 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 7703 by Mr Hedebouw has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u9	Prime Minister, cybersecurity, I do not need to tell you how important that is as your website has been hacked. This morning I also heard in the news about leaked hospital records. So it's a very big challenge. You have, however, been given a heavy inheritance in this regard. Cyber security policy still needs to be developed to a large extent. In that sense, it is not easy. It is also to your credit that you, as Prime Minister, took immediate responsibility and drew the file to you. After all, it is an extremely important priority safety dossier. Much remains to be done, of course. The first moves were made at the beginning of the legislature. However, there are still a lot of shortcomings from the past, precisely because legislation had been adopted in Parliament which had not yet been adopted, for which implementing decisions had not yet been drawn up, no appointments had been made or budgets allocated. However, with regard to specific critical infrastructures, all of which are defined by European legislation in Belgian laws, it would be too far-reaching for me to go into detail on this matter, and there is still a great deal of work to be done. A Belgian Cybersecurity strategy has also been adopted. A Cyber Security Centre was established in October 2014. Since the summer of last year, a director and a deputy director have been working there. As mentioned above, legislation on critical infrastructures was adopted in 2011. It is about the security of vital functions of our economy, energy, transport, public health and so on. Another important aspect is that you have responded positively to this in a recent written question concerning the ethical hackers and the responsible disclosure. The government does not have the capacity to do everything itself and must reach out. This morning I saw people from the colleges and universities who are very happy with your outstretched hand. They argue that in this way their students want to demonstrate their civic and social responsibility by putting their knowledge at the service, just as they often do abroad. Prime Minister, the troops are waiting, but there must be a reception policy. I've noticed that people who have been wanting to offer themselves the last few days and weeks couldn't lay their eggs. They couldn't sign a document. There is no reception infrastructure in which something confidential can be communicated. That's a very big flaw. This afternoon, in another question, I will go into more detail about what is still possible in other areas and what information is available. Now I would like to know when the Cybersecurity Centre's staffing framework will be complete? How will the strategy be further developed, especially with regard to people who voluntarily want to cooperate to serve the government? Mr Prime Minister, there are very different signals about this. The centre is told that one must first be able to prove a crime, that one cannot recruit people or that there is no procedure for receiving the information. That's very problematic. So I wonder when there will be a reception infrastructure and when all sectors, as required by the legislation, will be properly monitored. Will there be an effective regulatory framework with inspection services and appointed responsible officials, with well-oiled reporting procedures for sectors such as energy and telecommunications? I know this is a big question, but that gives you the opportunity to discover the next level and to work on it further.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u10	Mr President, on 23 October 2015, the government approved the CCB's strategic plan. The strategic plan is structured as follows: First, it contains the tasks of the CCB based on the Royal Decree of 10 October 2014 establishing the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium and the National Strategy. It also mentions the various stakeholders identified by the CCB, both from the private and public sectors and from academia, who have a role to play in the implementation of Belgian cybersecurity policy. Finally, it contains the CCB's strategic objectives and the elements to achieve them, distinguishing between the different stages of implementation. The plan consists of two phases: a start-up phase and a consolidation phase. At present, only the first stage has been described in detail. During this start-up phase, the CCB will complete the recruitment of the required staff. The interviews have been ongoing since mid-December 2015 and will be completed by the end of this month. Depending on the availability of the candidates, recruitments are foreseen between February and May 2016. For the two Egov staff, the necessary information has been obtained from the non-profit organisation Egov and the CCB would like to complete the recruitment procedure, according to the services for the month of April 2016. The CCB and the competent departments have contacted Selor from the start of the CCB in order to initiate the various recruitment procedures. The CCB will draw up a national emergency plan for cyber crises during the start-up phase with the help of the Crisis Centre, as well as the future plan for the responsibilities and capabilities of national cybersecurity. In this context, the CCB, together with the Belgian Computer Emergency Response Team and the Cybersecuritycoalition, has drawn up the first guidelines to enable companies and operators of critical infrastructure in Belgium to respond adequately to cyber attacks. Government members remain responsible for monitoring security plans and regulation of emergency planning exercises, such as the exercise to take place in March 2016. The members of the government shall also remain responsible for the infrastructure falling within their competence. Each competent authority within a given sector should formally identify the critical infrastructure within that sector on the basis of an in-depth impact analysis. Thereafter, a critical infrastructure operator shall have a year to draw up his protection plan on the basis of a risk analysis carried out by him. Furthermore, the OCAD also carries out an analysis, including of the threat, which results in a number of scenarios. The authorities and operators of the sector may then compare that analysis with the operator's risk analysis and protection plan. That protection plan should include not only physical but also logistical protection measures. The National Emergency Plan that the CCB will draw up to respond to any cyber crises is intended to assist the authorities of the sectors and operators of the identified critical infrastructure in implementing the cyber aspect of their protection plan. I can add that a meeting with the director of the CCB is planned. That's very useful. In this way, MEPs can be perfectly informed about the way in which they operate within the CCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u11	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for your reply and your commitment to this. After all, the coordinating role of the Prime Minister is extremely important. Interrogation of various ministers responsible for certain sectors shows that they do not envisage this legislation at all, nor does their specific role in this area, such as the appointment of inspectors, inspection services and final administrators within the administration. So this coordination, especially at ministerial level, is really on the agenda. It is very good that Parliament is actively involved, including in the dialogue with the Director. However, there is another system error. The privacy committee now depends on Parliament. However, it is wrong that there is no administration within your Chancery to work on the file, which can prepare regulatory regulations and set minimum security standards for websites, for people who go on the internet and for people who do server or cloud storage. There is certainly a need for new structures or for bodies to be brought together. You mentioned some of them, like the CERT. However, other services are also needed, such as the Crossroads Bank and the BIPT. It doesn't take a lot of extra people. Fortunately, these recruitments are planned for next spring. It is very positive that for the first time effective recruitment is being carried out and the framework extended. I'll be sure to follow it up. The steps are necessary but are also quite urgent. It is very good that the dossier is now being taken over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u12	Mr Deseyn, I would like to add that, on a proposal from the Prime Minister, when discussing the policy paper, it was decided to meet the new director of the CCB here to exchange views. That meeting will take place next Wednesday 3 February at 10 a.m. You are welcome to share your questions with him there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u13	Mr President, Prime Minister, a summit between Turkey and European leaders was held in Brussels on 29 November. At this summit, the Europeans decided to release €3 billion in aid to help Turkey receive refugees arriving on its territory. A joint action plan has also been adopted. We had the opportunity to discuss it in a committee of opinion on European issues. Can you give me an account of what has happened since then? Several requirements have been laid down in order to condition European aid to Turkey. These include the principle that European aid must necessarily benefit organisations working on the ground for refugees. Can you give me more details on the checks on the use of these EUR 3 billion, the period in which they will be released and whether Belgium will contribute to this fund? Finally, if the joint action plan proved successful, several "promises" would have been made to the Turkish Prime Minister, including the revitalization of Turkey's accession to the EU. Can you tell us more?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u14	Mr Crusnière, I have already been able to speak on this subject at European level. Here are some more information. Since the beginning of the migration crisis, contacts with countries of origin and transit have increased, whether in the Balkans, Africa or the Middle East. Of course, Turkey plays a crucial role in the Syrian refugee crisis, given its long border with Syria. It is therefore both a host country, with 2.2 million refugees on its territory, and a transit country. Indeed, many migrants travel through Turkey to Europe. The Commission and the European Union have adopted a detailed action plan aimed, on the one hand, at improving the reception of Syrian refugees in Turkey to encourage them to stay there and, on the other hand, at supporting it in its fight against illegal immigration from its territory to the European Union. The Union will make an effort of EUR 3 billion to help Turkey in this regard. As I have already mentioned, this cannot be a blank cheque or a payment to the Turkish State budget. It is money that is intended to improve the living conditions of Syrian refugees. It must therefore support actors on the ground as well as international and non-governmental organizations in this field. I am thinking, for example, of education, health care or access to the labour market. Again, Turkey has made commitments to change regulations. Initial parliamentary initiatives have been taken in this direction. Tangible actions and results must therefore accompany this financial assistance in a gradual manner. The release of financial resources will depend on the progress made in Turkey's commitments to halt the flow of illegal immigration. We still need to agree on the nature of financial instruments. The European Commission has announced that it will release EUR 1 billion, while Member States should contribute to the balance. The distribution key is therefore defined according to the usual criteria. The summit also provided an opportunity to take stock of relations between the Union and Turkey. You know that an accession process has been under way since 2005, but also a roadmap for visa liberalisation and readmission. I would like to reiterate that this is an open process, without any guarantee of results. I think we are very far from Turkey's possible accession. We must not skip the steps, which are well defined and structured. Turkey must meet the Copenhagen criteria in terms of human rights, the rule of law and respect for minorities. I do not hide from you that I am concerned about recent local developments concerning freedom of expression and the freezing of the peace process, particularly with the Kurdish community. However, it is necessary to open new chapters in the negotiations with Ankara, as these chapters are a lever and a space for dialogue in very specific subjects such as the economy, but also human rights or the rule of law, for example. In the case of visas, we are in the same situation. Turkey has endorsed a road map which it must fully implement in order to benefit from a visa waiver for citizens wishing to travel to the European Union. We're not there today. Finally, the issue of resettlement of refugees from Turkey has been dealt with in a less formal way between some Member States. Belgium is already doing so from camps in Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan, but we do not want to step up these efforts at the moment. We could consider this when the Turkish Government's efforts to tackle illegal immigration will bear more fruit.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u15	Thank you for these answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u16	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanvelthoven's 7913 was postponed. Mr Top will come later, I will put his questions together to the end of the sitting. I haven't heard from Mrs Winckel. I will give some leniency, but if she does not show up before the end of the sitting, her question will be: 8109 considered withdrawn in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Debates of the European Parliament 8156 by Mr Van Hees has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u17	Prime Minister, I have learned from the press that you have taken the decision to pilot large economic road shows abroad to sell Belgium and "correct" the image given after the terrorist warnings. However, at this time, you do not know where, when and how, because you have commissioned a group of experts, coordinated by the Governor of the National Bank, on a series of economic visits to certain foreign states. So, Prime Minister, could you say more about these missions abroad, the "theoretical" content of these missions and the economic guidelines you intend to give them? What are your priorities? Why did you call on the National Bank in this context? Do the federated entities have or will they be involved in their preparations, while it is important to remember that it is the Regions which have almost complete competence in the field of foreign trade?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u18	Dear colleague, as announced on 1 January, I confirm my wish to travel abroad to promote our country, more specifically to highlight the economic and fiscal reforms undertaken by the government over the past few months. Many of them have already been voted on by Parliament. I would like to take this opportunity to highlight the image of Belgium, which has been somewhat dismayed in some countries as a result of the attacks in Paris. In this way, we want to support efforts to promote image abroad. Belgium is first and foremost a country of openness, a country of ambition. For the first time in a long time, he has been busy returning to the path of competitiveness to support the creation of activities, the creation of jobs and the long-term guarantee of the financing of our social protections. We have managed to find a way back that allows us to catch up with the wage handicap that has put us at a disadvantage for many years and could discourage investments, sometimes even destroy jobs at home. The decisions taken in recent days, for example by Audi or ABInbev, are signals of a gradually regained confidence in our economic and social model. In this new framework, I would like to continue to try to mobilize efforts to convince current and future investors to look with interest at our country. I intend, to be more practical, to form a group of wise men or a task force around the National Bank. The aim is to put in place a strategy to maximize these new assets abroad, in close consultation with the Regions. This is obviously an important point that you have mentioned and that I share. The first missions will start very quickly since I should, as early as March, go to the Boao Forum, which is the equivalent of the Asian Davos. This mission will be accompanied by a bilateral visit to China. I will also travel for shorter trips to Europe during the first half of this year. I mention that most of our foreign investment comes from European countries. Other missions are expected to take place later this year, probably also in North America. I am convinced that Belgium is increasingly an attractive investment destination. It is up to us to bring a clear and convincing message to the outside world.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u19	Thank you for your answers, Prime Minister. I share your opinion on the need to sell Belgium outside. However, I stress the need to involve the federated entities. Since most of the foreign trade competence lies within the federated entities, it is necessary to involve them. I do not know if that is the case, but in the expert group it would be interesting to have representatives of the federated entities from the start.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u20	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is now over a year since Fabiola de Mora y Aragón died, but according to the social security services, the late Queen Fabiola would still have a number of staff. It would be nine staff members who would have to settle the inheritance, which has still not been settled. Also the castle Stuyvenberg in Laeken, where Fabiola always lived, still employs staff. This raises some questions more than a year after Fabiola's death. Are these records accurate? When will that division be settled? After all, the staff stays in the castle as long as it doesn't get a new destination, but as long as the inheritance isn't settled, the castle can't get a new destination either. Do you have any idea how long the settlement of the inheritance will last? Can you tell me who's paying the staff? Together with the death of Fabiola, her dotation was stopped. Those staff must of course be paid. Do you not think it is desirable to draw up an inventory in life? Thus, a list can be drawn up of all movable and immovable property which are actually part of the actual Gift, so that all of this does not have to be sorted out after the death. Unfortunately, I know from experience that the regulation of inheritance taxes requires a lot of paperwork, but experience has also shown me that this is strictly regulated for ordinary citizens, and above all that the time in which everything has to be handled is limited. Do you not think it would be desirable for the members of the royal family to have a similar arrangement and not to have an exception for them?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u21	Mr President, Mrs Pas, the law of 27 November 2013 on the donations and allowances granted to members of the royal family, as well as the transparency of the financial monarchy, provides for double control by the federal chambers, on the one hand, and by the Court of Auditors, on the other. In accordance with the procedures laid down in Article 14 of the Act, the Chairman and the First Chairman of the Court of Auditors shall examine the legality and regularity of the expenditure charged for the operation and staff. For the financial year 2014, Queen Fabiola received a donation through the 2014 budget approved by Parliament. As the law provides, the expenditure charged on the operation and personnel part was audited by the Court of Auditors, which had no comments. The report was delivered to the Chamber on 29 October 2015. You have all been able to take note of it. After her death on 5 February 2014, Queen Fabiola did not receive a donation for the financial year 2015. The 2015 budget, which initially provided for a sum of EUR 466 000, was amended. So no money in 2015. As a result of the foregoing, the social liabilities, any wages after her death, which are reported in the press and to which you refer in your questions, were settled in the context of Queen Fabiola's estate under private law rules applicable in this area. Finally, the castle Stuyvenberg will return to the Royal Gift. Negotiations will be held between the various persons involved to find an ad hoc destination for this building, as was the case in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u22	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your detailed reply. I am pleased that the operation of the staff does not entail any additional costs and that everything is contained in the estate. However, I did not get an answer to my question as to why the handling of that legacy is not limited in time, as is the case for ordinary citizens. You did not give any explanation as to why nine more staff were needed, nor did you mention the time limit within which this would be dealt with in your opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u23	These staff shall not be paid by the State.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u24	They are not paid by the State. You just said that, and I'm glad you did. However, I have not received any explanation as to why nine staff are needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u25	That's a socially passive one.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u26	It's the principle that matters to me. If an ordinary citizen has to arrange a legacy after a death, it is subject to strict deadlines. Why isn't that necessary for members of the royal family? Then why can it take more than a year? Why can't you stick to it for a period within which this has been fully handled?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u27	There are social rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u28	Mr.President, Prime Minister, in January 2015, following the attacks on Charlie Hebdo, you announced 12 measures to combat terrorism more effectively and you adjusted the budget to $40 million. In November 2015, following other terrorist attacks close to our home, you announced another 18 measures and a new budget adjustment of 400 million. This shows enough that you perceive not only the proximity of the danger but also the growth of it. A special temporary committee on terrorism was also set up last December. It's the end of January 2016. In terms of advertising, one almost achieves perfection but, in reality, not much changes. You have adapted a few laws, without tackling the real problems, and certainly not with the same speed as the ones with which terrorists operate. It does not happen a week without an important, serious, regrettable fact, claimed or not, but with a terrorist connotation, all over the world. Europe is not spared, even if in Belgium it is possible to avoid attacks, according to the communication of the Minister of the Interior. Notwithstanding various findings, you and the European leaders refuse to admit the amplification of an imminent danger by taking almost no action, such as closure or drastic border control, while this is one of several channels of introduction of jihadists. You know that hotspots are still not working and Frontex is still so permeable. Returnees are still not arrested and even less expelled. Our responsibility does not stop at our border! The acts committed in France were committed by Belgian nationals or dual nationals. We are being pointed out everywhere in Europe but also in the world. And what do we do? We count our victims and sometimes our dead. Mr Prime Minister, simply, what measures have been announced in your 30 points, which are actually in place to combat terrorism in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you have said, we have not waited for the terrible attacks in November in Paris to put in place strengthened measures which must be imposed - I share your view - in order to fight quickly and effectively against the rise of terrorism and radicalism, one feeding on the other. The November attacks in Paris or the foiled attack in the Thalys between Amsterdam and Paris accelerated decision-making to strengthen the government's action in this area. I will be concrete with you since you asked me to be. 1. We announced it and did it: the National Security Council is fully operational. It didn't exist when I became Prime Minister. It has met on numerous occasions to try to make the necessary decisions. 2. The military can now strengthen police efforts when the level of threat so requires. It did not exist before either. You can see that operational measures have been taken in this regard. 3. The removal of ID cards and passports from jihad candidates is now possible. That was not the case in the past. This measure has entered into force. 4. A new offence, specifically aimed at travelling abroad or to Belgium with a view to committing a terrorist offence, has been included in the Criminal Code. It has been in force since the summer. 5. The revocation of Belgian nationality may be decided by a judge in the event of a conviction for terrorism. 6. The Foreign Fighters Circular on Information Management and Follow-up Measures for Foreign Fighters has been adapted and reformed. It was presented by the Ministers of Security, Interior and Justice to the government in August 2015. 7. OCAM has begun to set up a dynamic register to make foreign fighters more suitable for terrorists. 8. The ability to listen and record communications has been expanded in the event of terrorism. 9. The legal mechanism for identifying persons involved in the financing of terrorism has been activated. Their assets may be frozen in the future, which was not the case in the past. 10. In budgetary terms, €200 million was released in 2015 to strengthen investment and security equipment. I'm thinking mainly of our special units. Additional recruitment has been decided. Dozens of agents have already been hired by the State Security Service, while others are being recruited. Joint patrols, in particular with France, have been strengthened on international trains. 11. As for the 2005 revision of the plan against radicalisation, work began in collaboration with the various departments and levels of government concerned. 12. The plan to combat radicalism in prisons was presented by the Minister of Justice and was included in the Justice Plan. Work continues to make it even more operational on the ground in prisons. I now turn to the 18 measures decided at the end of November. The formal adoption process has begun for all of them. Three preliminary draft laws have already been approved by the Council of Ministers; they are subject to consideration by the Council of State and should be returned to Parliament as soon as the Council of State has delivered an opinion. The first is a preliminary project on the processing of passenger data and will implement a first Belgian PNR. The second amendment amends the law to remove the anonymity of prepaid gsm cards, which will have a significant impact. The third concerns three other measures: 24-hour searches for terrorism-related investigations, the extension of specific research methods to combat arms trafficking and the establishment of a dynamic data bank on foreign fighters. A sixth measure is currently being discussed in Parliament in the Special Committee on Terrorism. This is the proposal to revise the Constitution to extend police custody to 72 hours for terrorism-related offences. Finally, a provision of €400 million was created in the 2016 budget. These resources are additional to the structural measures implemented last year by the government. The aim is to release as soon as possible the necessary resources for priority projects related to the fight against terrorism and radicalism. I am thinking of the intelligence services and the federal prosecutor's office, for example. They will receive more operational resources. Finally, it was decided to work in phases and start from the beginning of this year with priority issues. I turn now to the question of the other measures provided for in this 18-point plan. They are in the process of finalizing technical and legal texts so that they can be submitted to Parliament as soon as possible. In conclusion, I want to say that we worked fast. As soon as the government agreement was reached, we considered security issues to be a priority. We took 12 actions after the foiled attacks in Verviers and the Charlie Hebdo bombing. They were all implemented in a few months, absolutely all of them. A few months, given the traditional parliamentary processes, it is extremely quick to implement. The 18 measures decided at the end of last year, for many of them, are already in the parliamentary pipeline or are expected to do so. I am determined to be very vigilant to have these measures taken and to make them operational as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u30	Mr President, I thank the Prime Minister for his well-substantiated answer. However, I have not heard such measures as, for example, the exclusion of hate preachers and the closure of websites where hatred is preached and the closure of suspicious mosques. These are easy and inexpensive measures to avoid radicalism.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u31	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Winckel's 8109 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u32	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is important that this discussion continues. It is known that there is too much sensitive information circulating on the Internet. The FPS Chancery also publishes a lot of useful information for those involved in public procurement, but anyone who wants to can be involved in a very simple way because the identification procedure is not good. Even without going through that identification procedure and without registering, you can still find a lot of information via Google's cache servers. That is a rather absurd and dangerous situation, Prime Minister, especially in the light of your statement that a cyber attack should be feared and that this could happen in the near future. The sensitive data that is now circulating, including classified information, is a dream for people with bad intentions. Hence my question: how is it that there is still so much to be found online about public procurement? Let me give you some examples. NATO pipelines and NATO's ground plans in Evere can be found on the Internet, including all electricity facilities, escape routes, data centres and electrical circuits. I've verified some of this. You can download documents in a dropbox. That is very dangerous, with a view to spreading. Out-of-date platforms are used. It says which antivirus program the government is working with and what the dangers are. This weekend, a lot of ground plans were still circulating freely on the Internet. I also found a list of where the DoD ammo was stored. Those aren't innocent data. All standards for radio networks and bulletproof vests can be found on the internet. Someone with evil intentions who wants to plan something, in our embassies for example, will find on the internet the complete layout of the offices, internal networks, telecom networks and telephone exchanges of our facilities abroad. I know, and several people have already pointed that out, that all sorts of things are now being removed quickly, but yesterday there was still a lot to be found online. That's how I found all the army's gas stations. Anyone who wants to organise an explosion can just download a PDF file with all the tank installations of the Belgian Defence Department. I therefore call on you, Prime Minister, to make sure that the screws are turned on better. We are in an exceptional situation. We cannot afford to deal with such information as laxly as in the past. I know that this is also your concern. I wanted to show with these few examples today, without going into detail, that the work is not yet finished. There's an urgent need to act.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u33	Mr President, although the principle is that contracting authorities should treat undertakings in a transparent manner, there are certain provisions in the public procurement legislation which demonstrate the need to deal sensitively with certain confidential information. For example, Article 11 (2) of the Law of 15 June 2006 provides that the contracting authority may impose requirements to protect the confidentiality of information which it communicates to candidates and tenderers. Certain exceptions are already provided for in the so-called Professional Law of 17 June 2013 on the grounds of motivation, information and remedies for public procurement. More specific rules apply to works, supplies and services in the field of defence and security. These are contained in the Act of 13 August 2011 on public procurement and certain works, supply and service contracts in the field of defence and security and in the implementing acts of this Act. The above-mentioned law applies not only to the supply of military material but also to the supply of sensitive material, works, supplies and services directly related to the military or sensitive material, works and services for specific military purposes or sensitive works and services. Sensitive material, sensitive works and sensitive services are defined as materials, works and services for security purposes which relate to classified information or which require and/or contain classified information. For public contracts relating to classified information, the contract documents shall specify the measures and requirements necessary to ensure the security of such data. In this respect, the contracting authority may require that the tender includes a number of elements. Thus, the contracting authority may ask the tenderer to enter into a number of commitments to ensure confidentiality before access to sensitive information is provided. Public procurement legislation does not in itself oblige the contracting authority to actively disclose sensitive information, for example in the context of the publication obligation. It goes without saying that the contract documents and technical specifications must be sufficiently clear to allow competition to be organised. This will depend on the practical application of the procedure. In this respect, each contracting authority must show the necessary vigilance. The clarifying guide drawn up by the FPS P&O on the publication obligation and accessible via P&O's website already points out that the buyer would be well advised to ensure that sensitive information is not disclosed. This guide also explains what practical measures can be taken if sensitive information has been published by mistake.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u34	Prime Minister, your last words on the new recommendations on the need to introduce a large threshold of caution more than ever before are more important than ever. The problem is not in the hands of the contractors, but the procedures are in place for them. However, in the pre-contract phase, audiences are released on the internet things that are supposedly secure, but that are not at all in practice. In addition, they leave a lot of traces and all kinds of archiving servers do not take into account a login procedure at all. Maybe it's the wrong programming by the federal government. So, in that first line, things are going wrong. The question is, as you rightly point out, whether there is sufficient caution. Will it be decided soon enough that a file is classified? It is not normal that very concrete construction plans and management circuits are already public. A contractor may be permitted to look into this matter by means of a confidentiality clause. In the past it was possible to afford this more in the context of transparency, but in the meantime the context has changed. The information that is still circulating until today, January 2016, cannot be even more sensitive. The viewing on all escape routes, servers, circuits and used standards is available, also at foreign posts. I believe, Prime Minister, that you can give a stronger signal to the various administrations, as well as to the cyber centre. You are very committed to this dossier, but unfortunately a lot of monitoring is escaping. I really call for increased vigilance, now that I see what information is still available to date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u35	Mr President, Prime Minister, the question of Britain's retention in the European Union has arisen since Conservative David Cameron's victory in the general elections on 7 May. In his Eurosceptic line, he promised during the campaign a referendum, probably to be held this summer, on the question of "Brexit". David Cameron has since formalized his demands that he wants to impose on the whole European Union. In a letter sent to the President of the European Council, he formulated in writing the reforms he intends to achieve. It is during the European Council of 18 and 19 February that the European leaders will try to reach an agreement with the British Prime Minister on the reforms he calls for. If he gets what he wants, he will call on the British to vote for the United Kingdom to remain within the Union in the referendum scheduled for 2017. These requests are worrisome. They include protecting finance and the City, hindering the development of a euro area of which it is not a member, removing rights for Europeans who settle in his country, preventing the Banking Union, and limiting access to European social benefits. Bart De Wever, president of the main party of your government, ally of the British European Conservatives with notably the Polish populist right, claimed to support David Cameron's retrograde and anachronistic vision of the EU. This support is simply worrying for every convinced European like you, at least I hope. But the fact that you can see the slightest opportunity in this process is also worrying. Because Cameron is proposing a Europe that would work less and no longer have a future. Yes, Cameron's approach is going to be an opportunity for those who want to deregulate. No, his approach is not good for those who want a more social and just Europe. How can we be so hard on a Greek government that rejects austerity but wants to stay in the Union and be so complacent with Cameron? Therefore, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. What position did Belgium defend last December and what position will be clearly defended at the February Council when we know the position of your partner in the N-VA, who is also Mr Cameron's loyal ally? What is your position with regard to the Eurosceptic positions and the "particularism" requirements put forward by the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom? In your opinion, what should be the margin of "negotiation" for the EU at both Council and Commission level? What would be the diplomatic and socio-economic consequences of such a referendum on the EU and the United Kingdom if yes or no prevailed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u36	Mr President, dear colleague, the British Prime Minister committed himself, in his election campaign, to holding a referendum before the end of 2017 on the United Kingdom's continued presence in the European Union. He confirmed that he intended to make that commitment a reality. On November 10, 2015, Prime Minister Cameron formalized, in a letter addressed to the President of the European Council Donald Tusk, the topics on which London expected or wanted negotiations. It concerns economic governance, competitiveness, sovereignty and immigration or movement within the European Union. This letter, in my view, does in fact provide little detail on British positions. I did not learn anything new about the meeting I had with David Cameron in Brussels in June. This letter nevertheless has the merit of clarifying the scope of the negotiations desired by the United Kingdom. As regards the follow-up to this letter, bilateral meetings were held between the Member States of the European Union and the European institutions, at the level of sherpas and permanent representatives. At the European Council on 17 and 18 December, David Cameron was able to present his requests orally, give his arguments, react to questions and questions from his counterparts in order to clarify the proposals without any concrete and operational proposals being sent. The method provides for the President of the Council to send a written proposal before 1 February. This written proposal would then serve as a basis for an in-depth discussion of the exact scope of UK applications related to the European project and preparatory meetings should take place before the Council on 18 and 19 February. David Cameron announced that he hoped to reach a compromise in order to trigger the referendum. It is too early to tell you whether it will be possible or not to meet the deadline expected by David Cameron. Given the still very imprecise nature of the operational proposals at this stage, it is not possible to tell you what position Belgium will stand for. However, I can tell you a number of important parameters in my view. We prefer the United Kingdom to maintain its membership of the European Union. We will therefore approach the negotiation constructively. The proposals put forward by London will form a starting point from which we can work. It's not necessarily a point of arrival. I maintain that these proposals can, in any case, be an opportunity for certain topics to make Europe better and more efficient, particularly in terms of competitiveness. Indeed, the question of a stronger Europe in terms of the capacity to generate activity must mobilise all of us. The possible measures to combat social dumping, which are suffering a great deal in our country in particular, could also be put on the agenda of our discussions. The involvement of national parliaments could also be discussed. Without going as far as a right of veto of a national parliament, the path of better citizen involvement at the departure of national parliaments also seems interesting to me. We are witnessing this because we are systematically organising advisory committees in relation to European issues. To adopt constructive behaviour during the negotiations will therefore be the lead of the government, ensuring that the proposed reforms do not lead in any way to the dismantling of the European project. In such negotiations, the will is to make Europe more effective and stronger.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u37	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. According to our group, the blackmail carried out by Conservative David Cameron is simply unacceptable. The principle of establishing the foundations of an ever closer Union between the peoples of Europe is not negotiable and deregulation in the UK cannot become the European norm, particularly in socio-economic terms. Europe cannot be limited to a single market, as the President of my party reminded us. There would be so much to do to move Europe forward: fiscal harmonisation, debt management, promoting public investment, setting up the tax on financial transactions, which we will come back to in a few moments. But all these advances scare David Cameron and his allies, who are ultimately against Europe. If the Union is to maintain continuous dialogue with its Member States, it is imperative that the objectives remain European. Contrary to what you have said in conclusion to your answer, this is not an opportunity for us, but a danger. Indeed, one can unite only for the best and not for the worst. Behind the demands that have been made are, of course, Euroscepticism, but also and above all, a barely veiled will to further deregulate social achievements and regulations, particularly the European Union's banks. The objective seems to be an increase in tax dumping while benefiting from European benefits. By accepting such requirements, you will open Pandora's box, which would be extremely dangerous and burdensome. This will only give wings to all the critics of the European project. Our position is therefore clear and unambiguous: Mr Cameron's requests must be rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u38	First of all, congratulations, Prime Minister, on the birth of your daughter. Almost at the same time, at the award ceremony of the Brussels Stock Exchange, your Finance Minister, Mr. Van Overtveldt, said he wanted to "analyse in the coming weeks or months how to put an end to this tax". He was talking about the Financial Transaction Tax (FTT). This statement has generated many reactions, not only in Belgium, but also abroad (in the newspaper Le Monde, on the part of the European Commission), since the strategic path that has been chosen is to bring together several countries on the same project within the framework of a strengthened cooperation mechanism. Although the Finance Minister made a slight return curve later - although it is not always obvious to understand what he wants - this is a very bad blow for a necessary project both in the fight against speculation and in the search for new sources of financing for development. Your government is guided more by the interests of certain financial lobbies than by the search for some form of tax justice or European tax harmonisation. It is also a bad blow for the European project itself, which is in search of mobilising initiatives, if only within the framework of this type of enhanced cooperation mechanisms, capable of offering the means to get out of the crisis as it was even recognised by the President of the Commission, Mr Juncker. Do the Minister of Finance's comments on the Brussels Stock Exchange reflect the government's position on the financial transaction tax? If not, have you sent a call to order to the Minister of Finance? What is the official position of the federal government today with respect to the TTF? What will you, as Prime Minister, do to contribute to the success of this important project if your Minister of Finance is unable to carry it out?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u39	Prime Minister, first and foremost, I would like to congratulate the new Michel family. Perhaps one day she will become the youngest female prime minister of our country, if the political tradition is pursued. You don't have to, but at least congratulations. On the same weekend there was also less joyful news, namely a statement by your Minister of Finance on the tobin tax. I believe that there is broad support, both in our country and in Europe, for tax harmonisation and tax justice. It was actually less pleasant to wake up last Saturday, because it seems that Minister Van Overtveldt buried the tobin tax. It was even suggested that our country would like to leave the group of leaders with the negotiators. We tried to adjust this during the weekend, but the evil was of course done. The picture is emerging that our country is questioning the plans in this respect. You will also understand that we in the opposition and our citizens once again have the impression that the government is having a rather difficult time with everything that smells or tastes like a bit of just taxation. It is difficult to call the Minister of Finance enthusiastic on this point. In fact, he seems to show himself increasingly in the file and in other files as a minister of large banks, speculators and multinationals. I would remind you of the EUR 700 million, the poor outcome of the tax shift's justice and the poor EUR 28 million of speculation tax, Mr Deseyn, a speculative tax which is therefore raging on all sides. So we are not getting very happy from the Minister of Finance, who seems to bury the tobin tax. Hence my questions. What exactly is the government's position? What mandate does Mr Van Overtveldt have, who will continue the negotiations with his staff? What specific comments does the government currently have on the texts on the table? At least I hope to hear from you today a strong statement about the tobin tax. At that point, our country should be like a pioneer. I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u40	Prime Minister, what a cacophony again in this government! This isn't the first time. However, the Tobin tax is an important issue. We are witnessing an exit from a minister, and as a matter of chance, from a minister of the N-VA. The latter is immediately contradicted by several parties of the majority, as the CD&V reacted, and even your group leader. Of course, we are concerned about that too. My group regularly asks your Finance Minister about the status of the FTT issue in enhanced cooperation. We have been concerned for several months about Belgium's sluggish position in negotiations with the other participants. The answers of the member of your government have never been clear or voluntaristic. As a reminder, ten years ago, this Parliament ruled on the merits and relevance of such a tax. Some members of your government must remember that, as they have also supported this initiative. In 2013, during the previous legislature, the House reiterated its support for the draft by adopting a resolution from our group that explicitly called for continued support for the introduction of a financial transaction tax. As a first step, this support had to be achieved through enhanced cooperation within the European Union, and then it had to extend to the whole of the Union and to the international level. Your government's Minister of Finance said a few days ago that he would analyze, in the coming weeks or months, how to put an end to this tax. We can clearly say that the finance lobby is working at full speed in your government. Prime Minister, in response to this statement, my group is concerned about this reversal. It is unacceptable for a member of your government to come back to a commitment made by Belgium years ago. Could you explain to us this position, which hardly surprises us in the head of the N-VA and of Mr Van Overtveldt? Is this indeed your government's position? What do you intend to do? Will you call Mr. Van Overtveldt to order on this occasion? Could you take stock of the ongoing negotiations within enhanced cooperation? I can only reiterate the importance of this implementation to my group, both in terms of financial ethics and tax fairness.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u41	Mr President, my answer will be extremely clear. The position of the Belgian Government on the introduction of a tax on financial transactions at European level is defined by the government agreement and this position has not changed. I recall what the government agreement says on the subject: "Belgium will continue to make a constructive contribution to the progressive introduction of a tax on financial transactions under the enhanced cooperation regime. The government will argue that this tax should focus on equities and derivatives of a speculative nature, and that the real economic activity and operations of pension funds and companies and insurance, with regard to the coverage of their assets, and relating to public effects should remain preserved." Belgium remains at the negotiating table and will continue to negotiate constructively. Belgium therefore, of course, remains at the negotiating table and will continue to negotiate constructively on the subject. I would also like to point out that the work in enhanced cooperation has now lasted two years after several unsuccessful trials, in particular in the context of the G20 but also in attempts to broaden discussions to 27. Mr Crusnière is asking me about the procedure. The question is important to see what steps are planned in the coming weeks. On 8 December 2015, a document setting out the main principles of an FTT, on which ten countries had agreed, was submitted to Ecofin. The European Commission was instructed to translate these general principles into legal texts within six months. This shows that the ten Member States around the table, including Belgium, have a firm will to make progress. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the nature of these principles validated in December is still relatively general, which does not yet make it possible to assess the position which can be adopted on the basis of a text to be drawn up six months later by the European Commission. We will have a political rendezvous in the government, in Parliament and in the European bodies in the next few months, as soon as we are aware of the practical and legal arrangements advocated by the European Commission. I conclude by telling you that this government has chosen to support the real economy, job development as a better guarantee for the financing of our social protections. I continue to distinguish between investment and speculation. Is there too much investment in Belgium? Certainly not! We must fight to try to encourage investment in Europe, in general, but also in Belgium, because it is accompanied by business creation and job creation. Should speculation that is harmful to the real economy be discouraged? Of course! This is why initiatives have been taken at Belgian level in relation to this, alongside the efforts made in the framework of enhanced cooperation at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u42	Prime Minister, you have not answered the fundamental question on this issue. Was there, yes or no, a reminder to the order of the Minister of Finance in view of his unacceptable statements and in contradiction with the government agreement that you have just mentioned? The MR says he's for the voice of his group leader. The government agreement says we're going to move towards this tax on financial transactions, with the few nuances you just mentioned. But the minister in charge of the case is not doing anything to get things moving. He sabotages, without you reacting, since you did not explain that you had called Mr. Van Overtveldt to inform him of your disagreement with his statements on the Brussels Stock Exchange. It is either hypocrisy or organized inefficiency, since nothing is actually done. It is as if there had been no financial crisis, as if it were not necessary to give a signal to the markets, to try to obtain new resources, to try to build a new and harmonised European tax system. Both Europe and Belgium need actors to act in this area. So we cannot accept this sabotage, which makes us say that your government has no interest in the fight against speculation and that it protects certain actors. Prove the opposite!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u43	Mr Prime Minister, it is a pity that you consider someone like Mr Gilkinet, who is well-known for his thorough work, to be intellectually unfair. Let us join forces on this. Above all, you should remember from our committee that, unlike your government, there is an explicit demand in Parliament for these plans to be pushed forward and for them to remain at the forefront of the debate. You outline the state of play and say that the principles have been adopted. The question remains why Johan Van Overtveldt thinks it is necessary to cast doubt on the Belgian position and to say at a meeting at the fair that he is not a fan of what is on the table today. You should not be angry because the opposition is asking questions about this, you should rather thank us. That means political support, which you can cash in. You should say very explicitly to your Minister of Finance that you do not like such statements. You are not doing this extremely formally here, and I would ask you to do so extremely formally where possible, particularly at the Council of Ministers and at the nuclear cabinet. As Mr Gilkinet rightly says, Minister Van Overtveldt seems to sabotage the tobin tax in this way. Apparently, it's Johan Van Overtveldt's dream to proceed to the euthanasia of those righteous plans. That is certainly not our plan and I would like to invite you to keep your coalition partner short in that regard. It is not because justice is not part of the N-VA's party programme, which cannot be included in our country's policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u44	Prime Minister, like my two colleagues, I must admit that your answer leaves me with a little bit of hunger. I will have the opportunity to question the Minister of Finance on the same subject this afternoon. I'm really looking forward to hearing his answer. You fall behind the government agreement, but since the government agreement, the Minister of Finance has made several statements. We can really worry about it. You say that we are making a constructive contribution to this implementation. Your will may be that, but obviously it is not at all the will of the Minister of Finance. We can also worry about it. We are increasingly feeling that the Euro-destructive vision of the N-VA is once again destroying your government. We can regret it. I think it is high time we put your government in order and put ourselves back together, put ourselves behind the European project.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u45	Prime Minister, I would also like to congratulate you on the birth of your daughter Jeanne. The previous federal government gave the green light to a new NATO building in Casteau near Bergen one day after the dissolution of Parliament. This decision was taken with full authority. I understand that the Secretary of Defense Steven Vandeput would not want to cough up the budget of EUR 83.2 million associated with this project. The new office will house part of the NATO Communications and Information Agency. This is an ICT organisation that deals with cyber security. Prime Minister, do you think that the new headquarters could be an added value for our country? Will you stand behind this headquarters?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u46	For the construction of an engine room for the NATO Communications and Information Agency, the government has agreed to finance a total amount of €87.2 million: €2.9 million in 2016 and €84.3 million in 2017. The Council of Ministers of 18 December 2015 instructed the Minister of Defence and the Chancellory of the Prime Minister to draw up a specific protocol agreement whereby Defence became the power station for the realisation of the NCIA project. That's happening now. The registration of the specific budget allocation will be decided under the 2016 budgetary control within the broader framework of the policy actions on seat policy. Belgium is in a privileged position in terms of the presence of international organisations, which is a very beneficial factor for both our role in international politics and our economy. About 2.5 % of GDP, more than nine billion euros annually, originates from the presence of international organisations in Belgium. However, this presence has implications, including in budgetary terms, for the status of host country, which requires a voluntaristic approach from all the actors involved, both at federal and regional and Community level. The file on the construction of an engine room for the NCIA avoids the need for 550 NCIA staff in Casteau and 200 staff in Glons to move to The Hague and that this would result in a loss of tax revenue for Belgium. This tax revenue was estimated in 2013 by the FPS Finance at 1.4 million euros per year, for the 640 staff working at the NCIA in Casteau. As the workforce should be increased to 820 people, this revenue should be EUR 1.8 million per year. In addition, revenue from the consumption of these 820 international staff and their families is added. This estimate does not take into account indirect income, the property tax on rent or the property tax as owner. Moreover, the construction of the engine room will generate VAT revenue, but will also provide dozens of jobs. Finally, for the sake of completeness, I would like to add that between 2006 and 2012, NCIA concluded the latest known data contracts for the Belgian economy for an annual value of EUR 25 million. The Belgian Government has therefore made a choice, it has chosen to safeguard employment, to preserve tax revenues and the various contracts with Belgian companies, but also to pursue an ambitious seat policy, which at the same time demonstrates the responsibility of our country and our solidarity with our allies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u47	Mr President, Prime Minister, I am pleased with your reply that the government continues to support the decision to invest in that organisation in Casteau. The government has indeed taken this decision in the context of the increase in income and employment. The statement by Minister of Defence Vandeput dates from before the decision of the government to which you refer in December. It would be a good thing for everyone in the government to support that position and for everyone in the government to remain in the same position. I assume that Mr Vandeput's statements have been made because of a lack of knowledge on this dossier, which I regret and which makes the government crooked with regard to international organizations and the international community. I hope that this will be corrected and that there will be clarity and consensus within the government on these points so that this can remain a one-off fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u48	Prime Minister, according to information from the Apache news site, it is currently impossible for a security researcher who holds hundreds of documents on our Belgian infrastructure to talk to security officials about this without risking himself. However, according to the article, these are documents containing sensitive information. A few weeks ago, the head of cybersecurity in Belgium announced a responsive disclosure in an article in De Standaard. That's actually a kind of contract where a government, a company or an IT manager promises not to file a legal complaint with a security activist who comes on his own initiative with information about errors or omissions in the IT system. Today, Belgian law does not protect such whistleblowers in any way. According to Apache, the responsive disclosure can be seen as an outstretched hand to the security researchers who today are trying to warn us of huge amounts of detailed information that our public institutions and companies are not suspiciously putting on the Internet. It would not be a luxury to pay attention to this in view of the terrorist threat that has been going on for months. When do you think the Responsible Disclosure Scheme will be able to enter into force? Is there any possibility of establishing an interim arrangement with the Minister of Justice, so that cyber security officials in Belgium will be able to receive such information from now on and remove the documents from the Internet in time?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u49	In accordance with the security plan, the CCB has received nine assignments as a national authority, especially in a coordinating role. As part of its mandate to formulate proposals to adapt the cybersecurity regulatory framework, the CCB will analyse, together with the competent departments, the policies to be pursued in relation to the activities of the security analysts and whether a regulatory framework can be defined. The aim is to examine whether the activities of the security analysts can be structured by establishing a clear legal framework. Taking into account the experience of our neighbouring countries, including the Netherlands, the general objective which such a legal framework should pursue is to improve the safety of computer networks and systems for the benefit of users, businesses, workers and citizens. It is by no means intended to allow access to computer systems of someone else, without their knowledge and authorization. The regulatory framework will also have to provide for a standard procedure and a service in which the security analysts can legally disseminate the information obtained. At the end of 2015, the director of the CCB had contact with the Dutch counterpart for the first time to discuss the Dutch system and the scope of the provisions adopted by the Netherlands. Finally, all information about weaknesses or threats to cyber security can already be provided to the CCB via the website, as well as to the privacy committee when it comes to leaking personal data.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u50	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your explanation. For the most part, I already knew that explanation. We know that orders have been given to the CCB. Today I find it very disturbing that very little is still being done about the publication of sensitive information on the Internet after several months. One doesn't even have to hack into it, one finds that information simply by consulting the Internet. If, for the safety of the country and for the safety of public authorities, people try to make that known to the services in a safe manner, can we assume that they are legally protected? They will not be protected to this day. You are now announcing that orders have been given to prepare and investigate matters together with other governments, but that is too slow. The data in question is still on the Internet today. If you do not give people with good intentions the chance to make such matters known to the public authorities in a legal and safe manner, then we remain in a very unsafe situation with our country and with our public services.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u51	Prime Minister, let me begin by congratulating you on this good news as well. You'll give my congratulations to the happy mother. I'm going back to the Christmas deal and his communication. In particular, I would like to speak again about the purchase of 34 military fighter aircraft. This budgetary debate seems important to me. The Christmas Agreement provides for an investment of €9.2 billion in war equipment, including the purchase of 34 fighter jets. This investment reflects the choice of a counter-productive and very costly war strategy, at a time when the federal government says it does not have a lot of resources, where we saber in the railway, in social budgets, and when we make painful budget choices. I take note of the fact that when we talk about 9.2 billion investments, it is about 1 953 euros per household in Belgium, which is a considerable investment. According to a study by the University of Antwerp and the comments made around me, 25% of the population is opposed to these military investments in fighter planes. I take note of the fact that there are many debates in your Government. It is a great tradition, but these debates often come to the public square. I hear Mr. From Croo talk about Patriot missile investments, which are very expensive, and which indicates, in the show De Afspraak, that he finds this idea of investment stupid. Are you really going to implement this $9.4 billion decision? My questions are very specific and are as follows. How do you justify this investment choice? What have prompted you to do so? Can you be more precise about the equipment you plan to hire and buy? I'm talking in particular about the F-35 bomber fighters. Has a criterion such as being able to carry nuclear warheads been adopted? Do you not find, Prime Minister, that given the current social and environmental needs, these funds should be redirected to other needs, for example, social security?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u52	Mr President, I respect your views on the matter. It will not surprise you if, from the outset, I mark my divergence of view with you on a theme such as this one. You know that the government agreement has the ambition to remain united internationally, both within NATO and the European Union and within the United Nations. I want to see with you – you can't dispute this – that in recent decades, generally, in Belgium as in other European countries, Defence budgets have been used a lot to clean up public spending. We come from a situation where the Defence budget accounted for 3.1% of GDP to be less than 1% today. Since 1989 and the fall of the Eastern Bloc, we have seen that European countries – and this is happy – have reaped the dividends of peace, but this has led to a decline in military spending. You have certainly observed the development of the security situation at the borders of Europe. I had other questions earlier about our relations with Turkey, the question of refugees, the sources of migration, the many conflicts we face. Yes, the Belgian Government intends to show its solidarity and credibility in the alliances to which we belong. We will therefore, through the strategic plan validated in its guidelines at the end of last year, implement an investment programme for the coming years. Of course, there will still be political steps. There are guidelines presented in the Defence Committee by the Minister and he will still have the opportunity, with regular steps, to present to Parliament the additional decisions aimed at implementing the plan we are talking about here. I want to conclude by telling you my conviction: unfortunately, peace is not decreed; if that had been the case we could have observed it in the world for a long time. If we want to play a useful role at the international level, we must mobilize both means in terms of defence, for our own security, in solidarity with our partners, mobilize political and diplomatic means and certainly also means for development in order to support efforts in the areas of development and humanitarian strategies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u53	Through this budgetary issue, we are dealing fairly quickly with a question of a peace strategy in the world. I am surprised to see how much we are talking about the attack in the Defence Committee. The bomber fighters we want to acquire are not territorial defence weapons. They are weapons of intervention in foreign territories. I think we should be able to take a negative look at the last 10 or 15 years. You have talked about the change in the German situation since 1989. The various interventions of our bomber fighters in Afghanistan, Libya or Iraq have created chaos, areas of lawlessness and jihadist proliferation. We should go back to what I think the philosophy of a Ministry of Defence should be: the defence of national territory. I see that the investments are really offensive. If peace is to be restored to the world, we must be able to restore a principle of non-intervention in the internal affairs of all other countries and not invest in offensive equipment. There is also the debate on the budgetary level. You say yourself we don't have a lot of money in the state coffers. It would be better for peace in the world to be invested in the social rather than in weapons of war.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u54	Mr Prime Minister, on Thursday 21 January, the newspaper, Mr Echo, reported that the federal government is investigating the possibility of a level 5 terrorist attack. That was already put forward by De Tijd at the end of December 2015. This level of threat could also be called "emergency condition'. A source would have forwarded several elements to a journalist from L.Echo. There would be eight or ten level 5 measures, including the possibility of a curfew within a specific perimeter and time frame; the possibility of prohibiting rallies of more than 15 people within a specific perimeter; and the possibility of using telephone wiretapping in a much wider and proactive manner than the law currently provides, even if the law is already in the process of being amended in the context of the terrorist offence. Similarities with lövétat d'urgence in France are insisting. The fact that the government seems to want to follow that slope is curious, since both the Ligue des droits de l'homme and the United Nations human rights experts have been very critical of the measures taken in France last week, such as the ban on cooperation and the extensive violations of the private life of citizens. United Nations human rights experts and the League for Human Rights have already expressed serious criticism of the state of emergency in France. Prime Minister, can you confirm that the government is developing a threat level 5? If so, can you confirm that the content of that threat level corresponds to what was written in L'Echo's article? Does the government observe the recommendations of human rights experts on respect for fundamental freedoms, even in times of terror threat?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the honour of the Democrats in a rule of law is to fight those who threaten our security, while respecting the rules of the rule of law. It is therefore up to us to define the balance between the right to security of our citizens, when we are confronted with a rise in the power of terrorism and fanaticism that strikes tragically and blindly, and respect for the fundamental values emanating from the Enlightenment and human rights, to which we are deeply attached. Among the eighteen measures that were announced in my speech in Parliament's plenary after the November attacks in Paris, I have indeed indicated the government's intention "to evaluate and adapt legislation, if necessary, in relation to the notions of a state of emergency". Level 5 and the concept of a state of emergency are in the same field of discussion and reflection. This is a lesson we want to learn after the attacks in Paris but also the events in Verviers or in the Thalys between Brussels and Paris. We believe that it may be necessary, in some cases and in a manner consistent with fundamental principles, for the government, for a limited period of time and under the control of Parliament, to take a number of measures to ensure the strengthening of public security. To tell you everything, I am not very inspired by the French model because I think it goes far too far. The notion of administrative search is, for example, a model that does not satisfy me very much. I hope that the government will be able to continue the work undertaken since the end of last year, that is, to try to see how we can adjust our legislative and regulatory framework, if it appears necessary, in order to succeed in combining this need to guarantee the right to security at a time when we are faced with new types of threat, while at the same time guaranteeing these fundamental rights and personal freedoms that we care about.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u56	Prime Minister, I regret that I have no more information on the content of this level 5. You're talking about the 18 measures, but I don't see how they fit into level 5. A ban on rallies of more than 15 people is a very intrusive measure regarding the democratic right to move. It is up to you to deny this information if it is not correct. As far as the possibility of using very wide telephone taps is concerned, I believe that the fact that an investigating judge must intervene is a positive thing. Does Level 5 mean that you can make phone calls without going through an investigating judge? I share your partial assessment of the question of the measures applied in France. The French example shows that a state of emergency can become the norm for months and years. At that time, these exceptional measures become the political reality in which we live today. It seems to me that you would be right for these terrorists by trying to achieve these democratic rights. Taking much more targeted measures – which is therefore not generalizable to the general population – seems to me to be an essential area of reflection in the fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u57	Mr President, I do not want to leave two questions pending. First of all, I am pleased that we are living in a state where no telephone access is possible without prior checking by magistrates. I'm attached to this procedure. Then, Mr. Hedebouw, you seem to have doubts about the possible ban on the assembly of more than X people in a specific location. If, as was the case in Paris, we are confronted with scenes of urban guerrillas, it seems to me necessary to take quickly measures applicable for a very short period, under the control of the parliament. I therefore diverge from your point of view in this respect. However, on the first point, I repeat that it is essential that, in all circumstances, judges give their approval a priori before a measure as intrusive as telephone taps is taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u58	Dear Prime Minister, it goes without saying that all necessary measures must be taken in the fight against terrorism. We have just talked about this; I am not going to dwell on that. But it is also important not to put the confidence of the people and Parliament in the security services at risk in these challenging times, otherwise fear and mistrust reign. Transparency and clear communication are therefore essential. In this respect, according to our group, the government has made more than one mistake. The government's communication on the terrorist threat has been unsatisfactory on several occasions. During the so-called lockdown in Brussels, a decision was made to maintain threat level 4 without further explanation; the schools would not be targeted, but should not open. That conflicting information itself raises fear. One must clearly explain to the population why threat level 4 was set for the capital. What is still unclear is why, at the same level of threat, such different decisions are made at different levels of policy. That is clearly a problem in Belgium. Was the information stop really needed by the authorities? Did it make sense for our ministers to come to the antenna every other hour and still give little or no information? All these questions remain unanswered, even for the representatives of the people. The decision to close the commercial centers during the lockdown is still not known at what level and at whose command or recommendation that happened. Firstly, is there no need for a minimum of democratic control of the actions of the government, the National Security Council and the OCAD? Secondly, can you state definitively on the basis of what criteria were decided on 21 November to set the level of terrorism to 4 for the city of Brussels and on what basis was it decided to go back to level 3? Thirdly, can you explain on the basis of what elements were the measures taken by the so-called lockdown of the capital, such as closing down schools and commercial centres?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u59	Thank you, Mr Hedebouw, for your questions. I will first give clear information and a few repeats. Firstly, the OCAD, an independent body, determines the level of threat. There is therefore no political interference! A few months ago, the debate in the political world in Belgium raged on who was to determine the level of threat. Was that politics, government or an independent body? We have opted for an independent body and have confirmed the situation of the past in this respect. The OCAD thus determines the level. Secondly, the OCAD provides the information and motivates its decision to the members of the National Security Council. This means that we will not only get a figure of 1 to 4, but also the reasons why it has decided to do so. It is clear that the information is largely confidential, for security reasons. The Crisis Centre should make clear operational proposals to the National Security Council. On the basis of the concrete proposals of the Crisis Centre, the National Security Council and the relevant ministers can take the best and necessary measures. On the famous weekend, on the night of Friday on Saturday, with a threat level 4 in Brussels, we received information from the OCAD, which gets its information from the support services such as the State Security, the military intelligence services, the Federal Security Office. On the basis of that information, the OCAD decided to go to level 3 in the Brussels-Capital Region. We also took immediate action. On that weekend we followed the situation from hour to hour. Communication is an important point. We must learn lessons from the past. We were faced with an unprecedented situation. No one can dispute that. What have we tried to do? Firstly, the government communicated at a press conference following the National Security Council meeting. I've tried every time to give the information to the public, considering what I was allowed to say not to create any new danger. Secondly, there were and are still investigations in progress. I've always tried not to give any information about this. That is the role and responsibility of the parquet in our current model. The parquet has to organize the communication about that. In view of the future, we need to look at how we can communicate better with our experts and security staff, including in consultation with the Länder. You have given the example of the schools. The federal government is not directly competent for the schools, but we were given information that might have an impact on the schools. That was also the case for the subway, a regional competence. One final point concerns political control. Over the last few months and weeks, I have been questioned very often by Members on this point, which is also very logical. I have the impression that democratic principles were fully respected, which is normal. Through the Committee I and the P Committee, Parliament also has the possibility of exercising control over police and intelligence services.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u60	Prime Minister, I do not share your view on democratic control. I think we need to broaden it a lot more. You describe very well how a body composed solely of experts, such as the OCAM, today has a terrible power over our everyday lives. I believe that involving legislation or monitoring at the level of civil society, from the League of Human Rights and other associations, would be useful. Here we have a body composed of technicians who make important decisions for our democracy. Secondly – even if I know that you are not alone responsible – we can only draw the conclusion that this is a very alarming situation when we see how institutional lasagna in Belgium comes to a cacophony of measures taken in times of crisis. It's still disturbing. You determine the level of alert and then there are all those other levels of power that go in every direction depending on the political and technical interpretation that we make of it. This is an important problem to mention. Thirdly, with regard to the control of intelligence services – we have introduced a resolution to that effect – we should extend the control of intelligence services, particularly to civil society and all parties – as you know, this is a closed committee that is not allowed to parties that do not form a group. We could then go further in this control.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u61	Prime Minister, we have quite alarming information coming from Calais. Thousands of migrants live or rather survive in the jungle of Calais. They are people without paper, in transit, who want to go to the United Kingdom. These thousands of people are installed in improvised huts, without water, electricity and even less heating. The sanitary conditions there are more than deplorable. This is a disturbing illustration of the rejection of Schengen. The closure of borders will lead to such situations each time. The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees has appointed the British and French authorities in this regard. They refuse to bring food, clothing and logistics to these people. We are transforming Britain into an unattainable fortress and we are allowing these people to croup under conditions which, in my view, are totally unacceptable. So my question is quite clear, Prime Minister. Several facts have made the situation even worse for these migrants. We have heard that the French police are guilty of intimidating and extorting poor migrants. Human Rights Watch states in a communiqué that the police have played a role in this. Among the testimonies that Human Rights Watch has recorded, it also appears that the police have committed misdeeds, with physical violence. Recently, we have learned that far-right Calaisians have carried out violent actions against refugees. My questions will be very simple, Prime Minister. What judgment do you have on the current events? How do you view the attitude of the French government? Do you intend to intervene at the Council of European Ministers to put an end to this intolerable situation and finally to make the reception conditions for people fleeing poverty worthy?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, the situation on the ground in Calais and Dunkirk is not new, but increasingly worrying. Calais is currently catching 4 000 to 6 000 migrants, from a dozen different nationalities. The camp of Grande-Synthe, in the suburbs of Dunkirk, is growing. There are 2 500 to 3 000 migrants, mainly Kurds. One of the explanations for the large influx of migrants in this place is, of course, the promise of a crossing to the United Kingdom, a promise which the traffickers are eagerly abusing. We know that they have no scruples at all, especially since the crossing has become almost impossible. In Calais and Dunkirk, the lack of a reception structure and the formation of camps that are not framed by the government not only raises humanitarian problems, but also causes health and safety problems. In addition to the activities of smugglers and traffickers, I am also thinking of the possible presence of...................................................................................................................................................................................... The situation in these refugee camps has repercussions in Belgium. I am thinking in particular of border municipalities. As a result of the strengthening of security measures around the port of Calais and the Eurotunnel site, the Belgian coast is an alternative to the refugees seeking to reach the United Kingdom. The number of illegal immigrants in the region has increased considerably in recent weeks. By the way, the mayors of the Belgian coastal municipalities and the governor of West Flanders have asked for additional resources to deal with the influx of illegal residents. Local authorities have asked for police reinforcement, as well as additional officials to register the intercepted persons. The French police are trying to respond to the security and humanitarian problems in Calais. The French Government has proposed a plan for this. I will have the opportunity next week to discuss this issue with my French colleague Manuel Valls, in the framework of a Belgian-French summit. I'm worried. I sent an official letter to Manuel Valls last week. I understand the concerns of the local authorities in the region very well, as do the negative consequences for the Belgian border region of what is happening in Calais. According to the latest information from the Home Office, 841 illegal migrants were arrested in that area in December 2015. This shows that the situation is serious. I intend to discuss this point next week at my meeting with Manuel Valls, with the intention of getting concrete commitments from France, of course in the humanitarian field but also in the field of security and the negative consequences in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u63	Prime Minister, you spoke of 841 cases, what period is it about?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u64	December 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-26-54-commissie-ic317x.u65	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I hope we have an answer from the French authorities. I believe that the situation at the level of the communes as you describe it well, especially at La Panne, where we really have hundreds of migrants hidden in the groves of aubépine hoping to try the crossing, shows that the idea of being able to stop the flow of refugees by discouraging them, driving them out and giving them no means to live with dignity – Mr Franken also helps to stigmatize it – is not at all the way to go. We must invest in their reception because, anyway, that's what I've learned from my experience when I go to work in Africa for two years, these people will want to come. We can't stop someone who wants the happiness of his family. I think we should be able to be pragmatic about this.
