ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u2	I'm a man, and I'm asking this question with caution. I consciously do this because of the simple fact that she doesn't have so much to do with the relationships between men and women. It deals with the attitudes and values and standards of our culture and the way in which we deal with women here, unlike any other culture, especially Islam. What we are experiencing today in some German cities, where men attack, grope and worse women in groups, is a problem of multicultural society. Multiculturally, over the last few weeks, months and years, multi-conflict, multi-problem and multi-criminal has become increasingly common. I do know that it is about refugees, immigrants and illegals, young testosterone bombs they are called. However, much more, as I said in my introduction, is about figures and persons who are apparently not adapted to their behaviour and their way of dealing with women in accordance with our way of life, with our values and standards, with the basic respect that we have for a woman and everything that goes with it. No matter how we turn it or turn it around, we must not be politically correct today: Islam is a woman's unfriendly culture in which women are a subject of use and also sexually subordinate to the wishes of men. So, Minister, my question to you is simple: what are you doing about it? I do not think that giving a course in asylum centres, as Secretary of State Francken is planning, will do very much. A few pages of paper do not change the cultural behavior of many generations, a religion, a civilization and a society. Nor do individuals who are guilty of such facts from an open centre to a closed one. What really needs to be done is to make it clear to those people that they do not belong here. This means that they must return to their countries of origin and that you must point out to the culture that is responsible, Islam, that we will never accept that women are utensils, that women can be discriminated against in any way, and certainly in sexual terms, and that we will absolutely never accept such behaviour here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u3	Mr Minister, what happened in Cologne is simply reprehensible. No more and no less. Nothing or no one can justify that. If, in the aftermath of this, victim blaming has also been done, it is also reprehensible. There is only one group to blame in this case, and those are the culprits. I do not want to talk today about lengths of arms and so on, but about the problem of the substance, because in our society too there is still far too much of this problem. I wonder if there is one woman in this hemisphere who has never, to a greater or lesser extent, dealt with this problem in her entire life. At least I don't know someone like that and unfortunately I can write a book about it personally. We must fight against sexual violence and cross-border behaviour without taboos. This means that problems are also mentioned. We have to be honest. If I go to the bar tonight, there's a chance I'm gonna get involved. If I park my car tonight in certain neighbourhoods in Brussels, the chance is 99 % that I get to deal with it on my way to my destination. Then one should not call it stigmatizing, which is about a real problem. Don't do that would be a gross negligence. The fact is that in our society there are cultural groups that look at women in a different way. That would increase the risk of such behaviour. I am therefore very pleased that Secretary of State Francken has taken an initiative to make a course compulsory for newcomers in our country at the asylum centre. I am even more pleased that Secretary of State Sleurs has drawn up an overall action plan with more than 230 actions against gender-based violence. However, I would like to open this up to more target groups where specific work is needed. I think we should dare to say this. Minister, Secretary of State Sleurs' action plan stipulates that there will be sensitising work for certain target groups where the risk is greater. How will you handle this with her? How will you mobilise your police services more in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u4	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on New Year's Eve, you and I all celebrated yourselves, and I hope so. The reports of the events in Cologne reversed every woman's stomach, including in this country. Every woman, including me, can unfortunately imagine too vividly what it must be like to be isolated, robbed and then sexually assaulted. Effectively, there is no woman who has no stories to tell about one's own experiences. Even a lot of men can testify about their partner, their daughter or their mother. Sixty percent of women in our country have experience of sexual harassment. A glowing shame. So there can be no doubt, no doubt whatsoever, about the impact of such events on women today. There can be no condoning of perhaps well-meant or unconscious advice that advises women to keep an arm-length distance from men. From Mr Dewinter, I shall do so now. Today we must finally get to work on the debate that has started in our own country with the hashtag. We are not exaggerating. All these stories, all these women are traumatized for life. The question is how, as politicians today, after the wake-up call due to the events in Cologne, we will answer this question. We have a large arsenal of legal material. The question is how we implement it in practice. How can we prevent a woman who is late at night in a police report from getting the message that she shouldn't be on the street this late? We need to get rid of that kind of messages, of that kind of reflexes. Yes, we must appoint, but above all we must tackle it. My questions are as follows. What's the approach today? What budgets are being released? How do we ensure that the police make this a priority and continue to make it a priority?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u5	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am not only angry about violence against women in recent days, I have been angry for years about violence against women. Any news that appears about the security feelings and dignity of women who are affected, which means they can't move freely, I get angry. Autochtoon or allochtoon, hands off! It's not just about the violence in Cologne. Fifty percent of women in Belgium sometimes feel unsafe on the streets. Thirty percent of women don't come out at night because they're scared. There are 3 000 registered rape complaints, only 10 % is reported. 35 acts of violence must be committed within the family before they are reported. That's very problematic. The reportage Femme de la rue highlighted the problem a few years ago. The previous Minister of the Interior then said that gas fines should be issued, which is a clear signal. Sexism legislation has been passed. It was hoarded at the time, but more than ever it is clear that sexism cannot, that everything must be done to prevent this. Criminal law also states that gender or racial violence is an aggravating circumstance. Something has to happen to the police, too. The police have an important role to play in this matter and to mention it in the minutes so that there can be punitive action. It is a crucial task for the Home Office to draw up clear guidelines for this. My question to you is therefore: what will you do to give the police clear guidelines? What will you do to increase women's sense of security, in consultation with the Minister of Justice and the Secretary of State responsible for Equal Opportunities?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u6	Minister, like the previous speakers, I feel disgusted at what happened in Cologne. In fact, this incident in Cologne is an extreme expression of what is also very common in our society. Ten women are raped every day. At least, ten women report it every day. Ten women a day find the courage to press charges. And then we are not talking about the dark number, the number of women who do not have the courage to report it. That is precisely what the mayor of Cologne, in her statements, may well be playing into the hands of security in her city. Those statements are wrong:victim blaming, saying it's good for girls to stay at arm length, not go to the carnival party in miniskirts, and especially not just with girls on the street. That, I believe, is the most wrong message we can give. I would like to emphasise this, Minister, here today. However, I would also very much like to hear it from you. This is an important and strong signal that we must give society. It has already been said, we must dare to name the facts, we must dare to identify the problems, we must dare to identify them. That means we have to be able to measure them. That's why I'm asking you a few questions. First of all, apparently the phenomenon of the dance gangs in Germany is something new. However, 54 000 complaints have already been lodged. I would like to hear from you whether this phenomenon also occurs in our country, that girls are groped before they are robbed? Secondly, is sexual steaming a phenomenon being investigated? How is it further mapped? In what way, above all, are we dealing with this phenomenon? Thirdly, are you prepared to examine and map the migration background of people and especially of perpetrators in our report and our statistics?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that everyone here in the Chamber and every member of our society agrees that sexual violence and cross-border behaviour are not acceptable and will never be acceptable. [[Applause]] Equality between men and women is one of the fundamental values in our society. No one will ever be able to question these values: no people who were born here, nor people who came here to seek their salvation in this country. We will never, ever accept that. [[Applause]] Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, sexual harassment in public places is a real problem. We must dare to mention that problem by name. So, Mrs Lijnen, I agree with you that these phenomena must be correctly mapped out, and that they must be called man and horse. You also ask me whether the police authorities are currently identifying phenomena such as those in Germany. Reference has already been made here to figures. We don't know the dark number. However, the phenomena as they have occurred in Germany and described by you do not yet know our police services. They haven't been registered yet. It is clear, however, that our police services must be attentive. After all, phenomena that arise in a neighbouring country can very quickly blow over to this country. It is therefore quite clear that our police services must be attentive to this. Attention to these phenomena must be part of their usual practice. I can therefore already announce that one of the priorities will be personal integrity in the draft Integrated Security Framework Paper and in the National Security Plan. Mrs Almaci, this means that the police services will use budgets and men in these areas to deal with and combat this problem with priority. That framework paper will be presented politically in January 2016. However, I can already tell you that personal integrity is one of the priorities. Last December, Mr Elke Sleurs launched the national action plan against all forms of gender-based violence. This is an integrated approach and the phenomenon must also be addressed in its entirety, across all levels of policy. It is the first time sexual violence and sexual harassment have been included in the plan as a priority. It will work with all relevant actors: victims, civil society, all ministers and the Länder. The plan focuses on prevention and repression as well as on the care and support of the victims. I very clearly endorse what a number of speakers have said in their questions: in this phenomenon one can never turn the victim into the culprit. There's a clear distinction between who the victim is and who the killer is. I fully endorse that statement. The priority objectives of the plan are, firstly, to implement an integrated policy to combat gender-based violence; secondly, to prevent violence; thirdly, to protect and support victims; fourthly, to examine, pursue and also adopt protection measures; fifthly, to take account of the gender dimension in asylum and migration policies; and, sixthly, to fight against violence at international level. A total of 235 measures have been included in the Action Plan. The proposal presented by Mr Francken this morning is one of the measures. There will be courses not only for men about how to behave, but also for women about their place in our society, with absolute equality between men and women. Women must also be educated and educated. That is why I appeal to all those who are faced with the impairment of personal integrity to report it, so that we can also get that dark number out of our hands. This is essential, because it is the only way that the police forces and all the other actors in the field involved can take effective action. Mr President, I will conclude. Gender-related and sexual violence, including domestic violence, are priorities of the government and of all actors at federal and regional level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as is to be expected, a lot of bleating but little wool. For the umpteenth time, the muscles are rolled on this theme. Everyone says that we must dare to name the problems, but nobody does. One falls into generalities, without saying what this really is about. What is happening in Cologne is about groups of refugees who have come here from Islam countries with a cultural attitude that is anti-woman, a culture that is Islam to call it by name, which no one seems to dare to call, not even the minister who is a second-class citizen, where women are a sexual use object, where women should be discriminated against, Mrs Almaci. It's in the Qur'an, it's in the Sharia. That is the reality. As long as you don't dare name it, Minister, nothing will change. If you do not intend to do anything about this, because in the case of Cologne, Hamburg, Duisburg and others, at least give women the means to defend themselves. I'll hand you a tear gas syringe. In other countries in Europe, defence weapons of this kind, which do not cause permanent injury, are legal. If the government is unable to protect women from these kinds of men, let women at least have the opportunity to do it themselves. I'd be happy to give you this syringe.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u9	Mr President, what Mr Dewinter is saying is that we should allow an arm length, and so let the women themselves solve it. That's not the answer. The solution, Minister, is the ambitious plan you have presented. You called a cat a cat. We have had to fight for gender equality here for years, and we refuse to take back steps in this respect, including in this debate. That is what you have mentioned, and you have also set out clear guidelines. More importantly, it's limited to that group. That's a big mistake. Only today Secretary of State Sleurs received a tweet from a white man who responded to her tweet with the words: "If there's a hand on your ass, ma'am, that's not so bad. Well, that's how bad it is and we're tired of it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u10	As long as we have to say that, in the Chamber or outside, there is still work to be done. Not a little work, but a lot of work, against all unconscious and conscious mechanisms, not to mention direct violence. Thank you, Minister, for making women's sexual integrity a priority. In the preliminary version of the priority report, intra-family violence was extracted. I am glad that this is instead because it goes wider. That's what we need. You said that we should also raise the issue of violence against women internationally. I would like to ask you to get to the bottom of this, both through development cooperation and through our foreign policy, in the links with regimes that are seriously out of the way in terms of human rights and certainly women's rights, not to mention, for example, a dictatorial regime like that in Saudi Arabia, as well as a number of other countries. Go there to the bone. Finally, here's what I'm gonna say. Whether a woman is wearing a skirt, a short skirt or a bikini or is completely naked, the message is always: hands off! If she is unwittingly touched, then only the perpetrator is responsible. Until the day this becomes reality in all our messages and in our streets, at every hour of the day, there is a lot of work to be done here for all of us, women and men.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u11	Mr President, Minister, you have heard that many women are facing sexual harassment. Colleagues have testified to this. I, too, can testify to sexual harassment. Everyone's been there. And it's not just about immigrants, it's about natives. It is a universal phenomenon and a phenomenon of all times that is problematic in three areas: we cannot move where we want, our dignity is compromised and we feel unsafe. It is clear that efforts need to be stepped up. You have listed a number of efforts. There are plans, plans and plans again, but what we want is action, action, action. That's what we want to see on the street. We want to feel safe seeing police, reporting facts that happen. This is also part of the problem in Cologne. Let us acknowledge that these facts are taking place with regard to women and that it is an aggravating circumstance. It is very important to realise that emancipation will be compromised if we can no longer wear the clothes we want, if we no longer come out of fear of being attacked or if we can no longer do our job because we are indeed being harassed. Therefore, avoid this behavior and ensure that all existing plans are implemented as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u12	Minister, we look forward to your plans and actions. Whether it is about the immigrants in Cologne, the gang rapes in India, the white hand on the hole of our Secretary of State, it remains unacceptable. We will never tolerate the compromised integrity of women in our society. Still, I plead guilty. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going jogging alone in the morning. I don't walk the streets alone after the movies with my friends. I plead guilty, and that is unacceptable. We must be able to walk across streets and squares at all times. We must be able to sit on benches at any time, in any garment, even in miniskirts. You're the Minister of Security. Well, Minister, I ask you to make sure that the streets and the squares are returned to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u13	Minister, the new year offers an opportunity to exchange wishes of opportunity. I sincerely wish you a very good year 2016. It is also an opportunity to address the changes that we need to prepare for and that will be challenges. Among these changes, I would like to highlight the one that will concern an important sector of our economy, namely Horeca. Indeed, we know that the smart cash register system – the famous black box – must be installed at the beginning of the year. I haveten to say that this change is both necessary and desirable, since it is well known that the sector does not escape practices that may be at the limit of legality, or even be frankly fraudulent. This mechanism is therefore commendable, but it was the subject of a decision by the Council of State last October, which forced the government to review the conditions under which this smart bank is to be set up. Clarification was indispensable and welcome. However, the sector is still facing shaded areas and uncertainties. That is why I would like to question you, so as to make all the clarity on this essential reform. The first problem is that the royal decrees have not yet been published. This creates great uncertainty. As a result, the answers on the FPS Finance website to the questions that the sector can ask themselves remain incomplete. Secondly, in practical terms, the FPS Finance itself states that no less than 10,000 cash registers should be ordered and installed. However, the new rules were expected to come into force on 1 January, although a tolerance period of a few months is foreseen. Minister, when will the royal orders be published, so that the new regulations on the application of the system are known? How do you respond to the concerns of traders who may not be in order due to late delivery of the equipment?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u14	Mr Dispa, I also wish you well. As you said, the Council of State delivered a judgment in October on the cash register system, known as "white cash". The Council of State had raised objections both to the legal procedure and to the principle of equality before the law. Just before last Christmas, the government has developed a new regulation on "white cash". The legal basis is, as you know, the 1992 Act, which states that "the operator of an establishment where meals are regularly consumed and the caterer who regularly provides catering services must install a white box". As of January 2014, the figure of 10% had been set to specify more specifically the term "regularly". If that percentage was exceeded, a white box would have to be installed. As you know, the Council of State has overturned this rule. The term "regularly" is now defined as follows: establishments in the horeca sector whose turnover from meals amounts to less than EUR 25 000 will be exempted from the use of the white box. This new definition has three important consequences. 1. For establishments in the horeca sector already subject to this previous 10% rule, nothing changes. 2. Establishments that fall within the scope of the new regulations must register before April 1, 2016 and purchase the caisse blanche before July 1, 2016. The white box principle comes into effect on January 1, 2016, with a one-quarter tolerance period. 3. For those institutions which were affected by the 10% rule, which have already invested in a white bank and which are no longer concerned, a compensation mechanism will be examined. As far as the royal decrees are concerned, I will provide you with information very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u15	Minister, thank you for your answer. I confess that it does not bring full clarity on the measure. Indeed, as far as the third case you mentioned is concerned, you are talking about compensation mechanisms, but without really mentioning them. As far as the publication of the royal decrees is concerned, you are not answering me. It is important that this publication be published as quickly as possible so that the legal rules are clearly known. Beyond the explanation you give us, it must be understood that this change induces a certain form of revolution in the sector. For it to be a success, the actors concerned must be able to join it. To do this, they need transparency. That is why I would like to relay the appeals of the employers' federations concerned, because there are obviously unknowns at this stage that you have not completely resolved. I hope they will be very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u16	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you all the best in 2016. We learned that a preliminary draft of extending the tax shelter to the performing arts had been passed into the Council of Ministers. We are ardent advocates of this tax shelter. I am also the last signatory to the 2003 application. This is an extraordinary thing, which has led to the development of Belgian cinema, whether it is from the North or the South. Each euro that was not collected by the State allowed 6 or 7 euros of investment in cinematographic art. This is how Belgian cinema has reached an international reach of no other kind. Nevertheless, we had seen a perverse effect, namely that even if more and more money was invested in film art, the money that actually came to film production did not increase proportionally, given the commercial intermediaries and the sometimes exaggerated remuneration of the companies that lent the money. The Finance Committee has therefore decided to amend the tax shelter in order to correct these errors. On that occasion, we wanted an evaluation to be carried out to verify whether the amendment had actually borne fruit. Minister, what is the status of this assessment? Have we evaluated the corrections made to the tax shelter system in order to avoid this waste of money? As far as this preliminary draft law is concerned, since culture depends on the Communities, have they been consulted? Otherwise, are they going to be? Are anti-abuse systems provided for in this extension? We are in favour of this extension, but we do not want to go too fast. We ask for all the information in order to be able to judge this change in the system.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u17	Mr President, Mr Mathot, at the Council of Ministers on 23 October 2015, it was decided to extend the tax shelter system, as it currently exists in the audiovisual sector, to the performing arts sector. The performing arts will soon be able to rely on funding through the tax shelter, which will certainly help the development of this sector, as has been seen for the audiovisual sector. In the meantime, my strategic unit has already made initial contact with a view to concretely drafting a draft text in consultation with the sector. In this context, the aim is to draw as much as possible, of course, from the tax shelter system that exists today in the audiovisual sector. On the one hand, this system is well known. On the other hand, it operates in a more transparent way and is better equipped to deal with abuses since the last reform of the system. The evaluation of this reform will be carried out as soon as possible. However, it is necessary to wait a little while to be able to assess this rather fundamental adjustment of the system. The performing arts sector and the audiovisual sector nevertheless operate in a quite different way. Production and the different parties involved may differ significantly in both sectors. That is why we are first checking whether there is a need for more specific provisions adapted to this sector. It will also be a matter of ensuring compatibility with European legislation, which is necessary in this case. We welcome the possible willingness of the Communities to take an active part in the reflection on the development of this new tax shelter. We are fully prepared to listen to the concerns and proposals of the Communities in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u18	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. However, I remain perplexed. If the preliminary draft has passed, how are you going to ask for the opinion tomorrow? Will this be done in committee? Are we going to bring in experts and ask for the views of the Communities? This preliminary draft exists. I'd like to know how we're going to proceed. I will have the opportunity to come back to committee with more specific questions. It seems to me important that we do not make the same mistakes as those made in the tax shelter with this project, and that we avoid the miraculous benefits that some intermediaries and lenders have been able to achieve at the expense of the objective of further developing the audiovisual sector as a whole, in this case the performing arts. I will come back regularly to you to take account of the views of the Communities, which I believe are the direct intermediary of the performing arts. It is also important to ensure that the assessment and changes made to the tax shelter can be applied to them and that they may be re-adjusted if it is realized that other slippages may exist.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u19	Mr President, Minister, we have already discussed this issue on topical issues in December. I really care about the agricultural sector. He is currently experiencing an unprecedented crisis. This crisis affects the cattle sector, the pig sector and the dairy sector. Today I wish to dwell on the pig sector. The consequence of this crisis is the collapse of the price of pork and therefore of the price of pork. On 17 December, I asked you about the blockage and the ongoing negotiations in the chain dialogue. You announced your willingness to bring the various actors together and unlock the situation. On December 21, during our holidays, I read in the press that it was done. There was a new deal. This agreement has yet to be submitted to the competition authorities and a number of complementary practical arrangements have yet to be established. Minister, I wanted you to speak out and enlighten us on this agreement. What are the main lines of action? When will it be realized? What are the different deadlines? I forgot to wish everyone my best wishes at the beginning of my speech. It's now done.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u20	Minister, if I come here twice in one month to ask a question about the pig sector, that is not a good sign. I asked your colleague Kris Peeters a question last month about the agreement within the chain talks. It is a very good thing that you, together with him, have intervened in the chain talks so that the best possible agreement can be reached. That is why the crisis is not over. The crisis is not over and I think it is high time we tackled the problems of our pig farmers thoroughly. We must do this because we must lay a solid foundation for the generation that is to come, for the young pig farmers who have to earn their living to support their families, while preserving their lust for life and enjoyment at work. From the sector there is a growing plea for a warm clean-up. A financial compensation shall be granted to the pig farmer, linked to the cessation of his holding. In this way, managers could be given the opportunity to leave this sector in a humane manner. They are thus given the opportunity to make a fresh start in another sector. We may be able to avoid major drama events and also reduce the pressure on the domestic pork market. In the Netherlands, 51% of pig farmers indicate that they should consider leaving this sector in this way when proper regulation is being developed. Minister, what is your position on the warm clean-up? Do you understand that question from agriculture? Are you prepared to investigate the direct costs and the feasibility? Has there been any consultation with your regional colleague on this matter, or is there still any discussion?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u21	Minister, after months of deep crisis and financial uncertainty, the pig sector finally got some good news on 21 December and probably a glimmer of hope. At the invitation of you and Minister Peeters, all the partners in the chain talks came back to the table. Thanks in part to mediation between you and Minister Peeters, an agreement was finally reached with all the partners in the chain talks. It is very good that an agreement was reached. In this agreement, the partners commit themselves to a sum of EUR 15 million, of which EUR 10 million is guaranteed. There is, however, a breaking condition in the agreement. Half, in particular EUR 7.5 million, should be pre-financed by the partners. This breaking condition is crucial for the agricultural organisations. If that pre-financing doesn't happen, the agreement will not go through. Minister, your website says that this breaking condition has 8 January as its deadline; that is tomorrow. My question is therefore very brief and very clear whether this deadline will be met? Will all partners commit themselves? What steps should be taken to ensure that our pig farmers finally get their long-earned support? I look forward to your answers, which, of course, I hope will be positive.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my best wishes to all of you! Indeed, the crisis in the pig sector is of exceptional gravity. The price reductions at the end of last year show this again; we are talking about a real and serious crisis in the sector. The negotiations started after the agreement of 31 August 2015 in the chain concertation were, unfortunately, blocked at the end of 2015. Together with my colleague Kris Peeters, who is in charge of competition in particular, we took the initiative to reunite the partners. Moreover, as is well known, the opinions provided by the Belgian Competition Authority made this agreement of 31 August 2015 partially inapplicable. This agreement concerned the sum announced at the time of 26 million euros. It was therefore important, in this chapter of chain consultation, to do as much as possible to try to reach an agreement. That's why we tried this last chance meeting. We have done so both to mobilize resources for the sector, to preserve the chain dialogue and to avoid, at the end of the year, disruptions in the trade or distribution sector. At the end of this meeting of more than eight hours, an agreement was finally reached between the partners in the chain talks. It provides for support of EUR 15 million to the pig sector on a voluntary basis, from possible intermediate parties. What are the most important aspects of the agreement? Firstly, the chain agreement of August 2015 on pigs will be replaced in its entirety by the current agreement. Secondly, there is a clear objective of bringing together a fund of EUR 15 million. Thirdly, a minimum amount of EUR 10 million is guaranteed. Fourthly, the target of EUR 15 million is supported and promoted through a positive list which will be monitored by an independent institution. Indeed, a pre-financing of up to €7.5 million is planned with a deadline for tomorrow. This is very important in order to be able to mobilise resources quickly otherwise the means released by the Concertation of the chain will take several months before reaching the producers concretely. From the end of last year and from the first working day of this year, I have made a number of contacts to try to achieve this target of EUR 7.5 million. I am confident that this will be achieved very soon. I would add that we have also submitted the file to the Autorité de la Concurrence, which must agree to this. On the other hand, I would like to point out that this is only a tiny part of the work. Structural measures are essential, as the future of the sector depends on these measures. I'm quoting another passage from the agreement. My colleague, Mr Peeters, and I ask the various parties to start the exchange of views on structural measures immediately. I will, of course in consultation with the Regions, invest in these reforms, but also in order to ensure that additional measures are taken at European level. My message is very simple: wherever we can act to support our agri-food sectors – in this case, our pork sector – that are very important in our country, as well as our businesses and traders, we must do so. But we must also dare a number of reforms. This is the next chapter of my work. Ladies, thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u23	Mr President, Minister, I thank you for the various specific answers you have given us on this agreement. As soon as you took office, you had the will to support the sector, to take various measures in federal matters. I would like here, although I did not say earlier in my speech, to point out that you have spoken about consultation with the Regions. They have almost 90 per cent of the agricultural matter in their remit. They also have substantive work to do; consultation will be essential. I wanted to support her. Having said that, I thank you for investing in these negotiations in order to find a balanced agreement, as you have shown. Other measures have already been taken at the federal level since you took office, such as the initiatives you have taken at European level, or the removal of contributions, acquired for 2014 and 2015. I think we need to continue in this direction. This sector is important for rural areas and for the economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I hear the doubt in your voice, but I hope that these millions of euros will indeed reach the farmers tomorrow, where they are more than necessary. At the beginning of this legislature, we took measures for agriculture, short-term measures. We have granted the farmers a postponement of payment for social contributions, but that now comes as a boomerang in their face. There was the storage of the pork. After three months, however, this is being thrown back into the market and they are once again faced with the problem of a fall in prices. Minister, the pig sector is sick. I have a feeling that we are doing sick anointing while we would heal better. It's time for healing, it's time for rehabilitation, it's time for structural measures. I'm glad you're looking into what we can do. Maybe warm clean-up is a piste to consider. Mrs Cassart-Mailleux is right: agriculture is primarily a regional issue. However, we will have to work together across the board if we are to get agriculture out of this deep pit.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed explanation of the agreement reached. I think we should be proud of this agreement. It is a great achievement that an agreement has been reached on a voluntary basis, through dialogue in difficult circumstances. Together with you, we hope that all partners will commit themselves and that the pre-financing deadline, 8 January, will be met. Our agricultural sector, especially the pig sector, is entitled to this. The agreement is good, but it is only a first step, a short-term measure. We have called for structural measures in the various hearings and committee meetings. Our agriculture, especially the pig sector, needs to be made viable again. This can only be done by taking long-term structural measures, not only at national level but also at regional and European level. We hope that you will make further efforts to this end. 2015 was a very difficult year for our pig sector. We hope that 2016 will improve, and that farmers will soon receive their promised support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u26	Madam Minister, today consumers are paying around 80 million to pay for the strategic reserve. That strategic reserve was introduced when it was thought that there would be a deficit and was intended to avoid a deficit on peak moments, so that there would be no fall-out. Today, if we can believe Elijah and much more the CREG, that strategic reserve is no longer necessary. Will the government abolish the contribution to an unnecessary strategic reserve or not? It was introduced when there was a shortage, so we should be able to abolish it if it is no longer necessary. Last weekend, we read in the newspaper that your cabinet intends, since there is a surplus again, so there is really no need for that contribution, to provide some kind of subsidy for gas plants. By the way, I would like to stress here that what we have said all the time when discussing the extension of the lifetime of Objective 1 and Objective 2, namely that there would be a surplus and that other production methods would therefore no longer be profitable, is apparently now confirmed by your services. Is the news that there will be an additional burden on consumers to maintain the gas plants, right or wrong? If so, is that also the government's position? In the meantime, we have heard the CD&V group explain that it does not like that. I would have liked to have had some clarity about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u27	Mr President, Mr Vande Lanotte, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to express my best wishes. As you know, between 2022 and 2025, our nuclear power plants, all of which are now running, will disappear from the power generation fleet and leave behind an electrical production vacuum of 6,000 megawatts. You also know that neither the import capacity, whatever you say, nor the increase in renewable energy will be able to fill this gap. Indeed, at the level of imports, as you know, as can be seen from the TenneT report of last July, the export capacity of the Netherlands will decline to zero in 2021. We could then perhaps expect imports from Germany, but if France needs them, will there be enough left for us? This demonstrates that a strategic reserve, which you mentioned in your question, may still be necessary. But we must also find a structural way to support the production stock within the framework of a harmonised Europe in terms of interconnection, with a minimum of energy independence for our country. Everyone calls for his wishes, and we are working on it, the exit from nuclear power. Finally, it needs to be managed through the energy pact and the need to preserve the best existing thermal units while promoting a climate of investment. In this context, I asked Elia to carry out a study in collaboration with DG Energy to further examine the needs and means of production and flexibility that our fleet is expected to have between 2017 and 2027. This analysis should be prepared by March 2016 at the latest and take into account not only the expected developments in the production stock (the legal nuclear release schedule, projections of renewable capacity development), but also the closure of units, the composition of the fleet, demand management, energy efficiency. I believe that this approach should also take into account the expressed desire to maintain the energy independence of our country and its know-how in electricity generation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u28	Madam Minister, it may be due to the beginning of the year, but I have not understood exactly what your answer is and what you will or will not do. I understand that you are not abolishing the consumer contribution of EUR 80 million, which is a pity. For the rest, I have the impression that the members of the CD&V Group are in trouble. After the cryptic answer, I have the impression that we are moving towards a kind of compensation, to maintain the gas plants for five to six years, which would be a wrong decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u29	Mr President, Madam Minister, a new year is coming and time is passing quickly! Fifteen months ago, here, you told us that we were going to see what we were going to see! With much less money, everything would be better! You're committed to making the trains safer, getting them on time. You were going to launch a new investment policy. You even said you wanted to give back their pride to the railwaymen. Today, what do we see? In terms of safety, you are proposing the one man car, i.e. the removal of train attendants. Trains on time? To ask the question is unfortunately too many times to answer it. In fact, today, how many trains do they drive? A new investment policy? The only tangible act today is that you have removed the investment plan. You have also removed the Thalys Walloon and you are also making sure that there is no further development in the Walloon RER. The pride of the railwaymen? Frankly, is it worth talking to you about it? Do you think that, from morning to evening, you give back their pride to the railwaymen? A positive human resource dynamic is needed in order to move this business forward. What do we see? A permanent provocation, a stigmatization on your part and that of prominent members of the majority! What is the real social concertation when, from morning to evening, we hear these little phrases, these little spikes, which highlight one or the other article, which throw into pasture the labor of workers who have been on the tracks for decades so that we can circulate in the best way? To the Socialist Group, we refuse to enter into your dynamic of constantly opposing rail users. We make the choice of a high-quality and efficient public service. We also reject this policy of underfunding which leads to a gradual erosion of the public service - SNCB and Infrabel. When SNCB and Infrabel are well managed, it is an economy engine and it is really a well-being for those who use them on a daily basis. Minister, how many jobs will be lost at SNCB by 2019? The figure of 6,000 is advanced. What's your number? The president of the most important party of your majority has asked for the regionalization of the rail. What will be your policy in this area? Are you responsible for transferring the national rail to the Regions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u30	Mr.President, Minister, 2016 is starting very badly for commuters and students, who have more to do than think about adapting to the new mobility. A strike is always a collective failure. But the strike we know today could have been avoided. I therefore call on the government, the directorates, the unions to go beyond the divisions that currently exist, to get back to the table, to relaunch negotiations and to make constructive proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u31	It is the responsibility of the government to restore dialogue, to maintain a social climate of trust by appointing, among other things, a conciliator. It is imperative that the government stop this logic of economy. In fact, last year's announcement of two billion savings was nothing less than provocation. What about punctuality? What about security? What about jobs? What about maintaining the lines, etc.- Is that what you're saying? Rail is an important tool for Belgium and, when it is hit, even a little bit, there is a national paralysis. Minister, what initiatives are you going to take to bring the parties around the table together, to renew dialogue and to restore confidence? Do you intend to appoint a conciliator to finally clear the situation? When do you intend to put in place a policy with real ways to meet your ambitions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u32	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely regret the strike, despite my understanding of the concern of the staff today. Seven thousand redundancies, that's more than Ford Genk. I understand the concern over the extent to which services are to be provided to travellers and the question of what lines will remain. I particularly regret the strike because I have been standing here in front of the celebrations asking Minister Peeters to send a social mediator and sit around the table again. It seems to have failed, and I regret that. Madam Minister, yesterday I was actually very positively surprised by your statement to come back to the negotiating table, as the reform of the post at the time was wrapped around the negotiating table. If it worked out there, why wouldn't it work out here? I must say that I regret the statement made by Mr De Wever, the real Prime Minister of the country and this government. Apparently, he has to play fire and throw a flutide oil on the fire. The idea was immediately wiped off the table by experts, but probably fit into the wet dream of an independent Flanders without unions and without socialists. Let us return to the core of the question. It is: what margin does the government want to give? At this time, everyone is talking about the climate agreement and its implications for sustainable mobility. We were able to read this week that the fileleed has never been this big. Unfortunately, we also have to note that the number of road accidents is increasing again, both in the south and in the north of the country. I do not understand that this government chooses to save on public transport rather than invest. What will be the willingness of this government to recreate credibility with an operational plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u33	Minister, what questions do I have to ask you? We're back from COP21 in Paris, where we've been telling the world that we need to reduce CO2 consumption. Belgium is claimed to be at the forefront. And what do we do when we get back here? It was decided to abolish three billion from the public transport budget. Don't come and tell me with the right that there's no more money and that it's the crisis! During the holiday you found nine billion for planes and fighter boats. Now you come to tell us that there is no more three billion for SNCB. These are budgetary and political decisions. We are facing an important social conflict. There's a bad battle going on. Public opinion has the right to know the truth in order to decide on the future of society. But, Madam Minister, you refuse to disclose key decisions and figures. I'll ask you some specific questions. I believe that the 150 Members present today have the right to receive specific answers. How many railway workers will remain in the national public transport company in 2019? You cannot continue to say that you do not know how to answer this question. It's in four small years. As a minister, you have the answer. Inform public opinion! I come to my second question. Over the last few days, you have said that negotiations and discussions have to be held. Today you say in De Tijd: My modernisation plan is not negotiable. At the most, we can talk about the modalities and timing of the implementation of some of the measures. Madam Secretary, you tell the trade unions to sit around the table. What margin do you have to argue with? Are only the small measures negotiable? I have a feeling you don't want to negotiate, but you just want to keep going. Well, that's how you're looking for trouble, because here in Belgium there's usually room for social dialogue. You don't want social consultation. That brings me to my third question. You announce in the media an average of 160 working days. Your political propaganda is based on that figure. The figure provided by all the internal bodies of the SNCB and the trade unions is 200 days. You're talking about the 160-day figure. How can you demonstrate this? If you come with sick days – it is a moral scandal to approach sick days – can you confirm the figure that absenteeism to the railways amounts to 4.7%, while it is 6.9% in the private sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u34	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, have I heard correctly? Both the French-speaking and the Flemish socialists criticized my chairman's proposal. Do you really want the Flemish train passengers to be held hostage by the Walloon strikers? It is not because the trains in Wallonia stand still that this must be the same for us in Flanders. It would be sad if it were to be. That's plague syndicalism. What is the essence of the matter? I heard the opposition's colleagues talking about the savings logic. The saving logic is not the problem. The trade union logic of SNCB is the problem. How many strikes are there supposed to be? SNCB is becoming more and more like a social Titanic. That's the problem. A few weeks ago I was standing here saying that there was no support for the strikes, but the problem goes beyond that. The support for the trade unions is also completely gone. The people simply no longer accept this broad role of the trade unions. Who understands that they receive EUR 11 million a year and 73 exempts? To do what? They stabbed every once in a while. The Flemish unions have finally understood, they have stopped. Thanks to those willing to work, in Flanders seven more were still on the ten trains. The Walloon unions want to continue to strike. Today I read in the newspapers that they want to stay on strike for weeks if necessary. It is clear that they are blocking social dialogue, not the government. Where do these unions get the right to bring down a government decision? It is the strategic plan, which was approved by a government elected by a democratic majority. The unions have not even been elected by their own staff at SNCB, and certainly not by the man in the street. That's the primacy of politics. Maybe it's time to change that. I also read in the media that the PVDA likes to compare the railroad workers with the mining workers. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that all mineworkers have lost their jobs, don't you? Is that what you want? Is it your job to take advantage of their social decline afterwards? Madam Secretary, can you confirm once again that your strategic plan is not under discussion? What do you think of the current role of rail unions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u35	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will not speak to you about a good resolution, but I will express my regret that the threat of strike has indeed been carried out in total union confusion. Unfortunately, this blur has led to a debate that is not on the agenda, since its purpose is not included in the government agreement. This is regionalisation. I would like to add that this discussion is not the wish of the MR either. Things are clear. Citizens, rail customers, whether they are workers, students, job seekers, those and those who want to work and advance Belgium, give it a positive image, are tired of being systematically taken hostage by certain trade union organisations – I repeat, by some trade union organisations. This strike is regrettable because notice was given when the negotiations had not ended and it was maintained and enforced while the government had proposed to send conciliators. Yes, yes, gentlemen of the Socialists, it is clear that today strike is no longer a last resort, the one used when negotiations have become impossible; it has become a means of blackmail and pressure to prevent the implementation of certain measures. This strike is also irresponsible, because it falls in the middle of a week of economic recovery after a difficult year. It is also undertaken during the examination period. Some didn't realize it! And I wish the students good luck – or good shit, as you wish –! Finally, this strike is unreasonable, as the rail management had carried out a balanced exercise, ensuring that there would be no layoffs at SNCB. [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u36	[[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u37	I repeat: there will be no dismissal! Don't confuse the problems! Nor will there be any change in the status of railway workers or any challenge to the 36-hour regime. In this context, which obviously disturbs the Socialists, I would like to ask three questions. [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u38	[[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u39	Yes, you're uncomfortable! It's visible! Mr President, I have three questions. What is the implementation of the guaranteed service? What are the guarantees that the quality of service and the safety of travellers will not be called into question with these different measures? Finally, what will be the government's position with respect to the conciliator? As far as security is concerned, the minister will respond. She's not in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u40	Mr President, Madam Minister, I must say that my two previous colleagues have put the bar very high. Beste wensen aan de CD&V! Minister, this strike is also your failure. As ecologists, we're for the train. It is a safe, user-friendly means of transport that will free the road for those who really need it. The FEB estimates the cost of traffic jams at EUR 8 billion. This also allows us to meet these essential environmental commitments that were made in Paris just before the holidays. As ecologists, we want trains that are fast, punctual. There's work to be done, Madam Minister. It is your responsibility to obtain sufficient budgets to allow it. It is your responsibility to organize SNCB to allow it. It is your responsibility to obtain a social climate that avoids such movements that no one wants. For two days now, Mrs Galant, you have been the minister of immobility. I listened to you very well yesterday morning. You did not answer the essential questions about staff development. The approximations that are yours, we know them. You have also sometimes played the card of provocation. I don't think that's the best way to restore serenity. Bacquelaine, who is not present, discovered the virtues of carpooling with a colleague, a local CPAS advisor. Bien vu! I have also heard the absurd proposal by the chairman of the N-VA on the division of SNCB. Bravo! There, really, it's a solution! It means ignoring the history and architecture of our rail network. However, he is advised by a former director of the company who left with a fabulous golden parachute elsewhere. Minister, what are you going to do to change that logic? Are you going to get out of this mortifying logic for the rail that is your plan's? What new additional means are you going to ask the government to change the fiscal equation? What are you going to do about the reorganisation of rail and, above all, how are you going to re-establish social dialogue in the company?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u41	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to express my best wishes. Madam Secretary, the train is always a little traveling, they say. Unfortunately, the train in our country is always a bit of a strike. We're seven days away in the new year and we've already had two strike days. At this rate we end the year at 104. The company that runs our trains needs to be reformed if we don't want to see it evolve into a Sabena bis. Those are the words of CEO Jo Cornu. The other public companies such as Bpost prove that it is possible. Proximus' CEO was named manager of the year last week. It's possible. It's possible. The examples are there. What is the need for reform, ladies and gentlemen, of the opposition? I took the chart from the minister from the committee again. There needs to be reform to get the company out of the blood red numbers. By the end of 2014, there was a accumulated debt of 4.3 billion euros. We need to reform to save the company, to keep the chemists working. Secondly, the company must become more competitive. There are other means of transport and there is the international context of liberalisation that is coming towards us. Thirdly, the service provider needs to be reformed in order to improve the service to the traveller and to improve the working conditions for the staff and to make them more modern. Madam Minister, at the beginning of December we also discussed this in plenary. After nine months of consultation, a text was prepared, but it was not accepted. Then came the strike announcement. What is the status of this text for you? For us, it's a minimum minimorum. There's no less if we want to save the company. What's the timeline? This Tuesday will be renegotiated. So how does it go on? You spoke of efforts at management level. Some call it the waterhead. Can you be more specific about that? I won't say much about the strike. Last week's actions have demonstrated in particular the weakness and division of trade unions. For Open Vld it is time to act legally. Today, we are presenting a motion for a resolution to enable, among other things, social elections and to make the representation of employees in the company democratic.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u42	Colleagues, beste collega's, notice for five days of strike was given following the vote on three measures to increase the actual working hours without calling into question either the 36-hour scheme or the other employee benefits relating to working time. It is no more or less a matter of correcting anomalies and inadaptations to existing regulations. Today, what do we see? There is 40 million euros of economic damage per day. This represents an economic loss of EUR 80 million. There are thousands of commuters in traffic. And there's extra stress for the students. This is the record of these two days of strike. My strategic vision, presented in July 2015 and supported by the government as a whole, is to ensure quality public service over time, meet the government's climate commitments and promote intermodality. It is true that the objectives are ambitious, but they are ambitious for the customer. It is also a taxpayer who contributes to the financing of SNCB. It is therefore legitimate for the Commission to expect the Commission to provide it with a quality service and to ensure continuity of the service provided. Let me be clear: the government will not change its strategic plan. That would be a mistake. [[Applause on the benches of the majority]] My vision plan includes several things. The waste is getting rid of it. There's been a halt to the rising debt. Stop under-utilization of the network! Stop the customer's dissatisfaction! The SNCB Group must save money, particularly for three elements. Firstly, a modern organization of work and an awareness of the urgency of this change at all levels of the enterprise. Secondly, customer-oriented investment choices. Thirdly, an increase in productivity. The citizens' response to these strike movements is a call for the establishment of the guaranteed service. We were informed by SNCB and Infrabel of the failure of nine months of internal negotiations. I would remind you that the guaranteed service is included in the government agreement. But given the current context, with my government colleagues, we will appreciate the modalities and timing of its implementation. At the request of the National Joint Commission, the Government agreed to the appointment of a social conciliator with the condition of abolishing the notice of strike. That was not the case, by union will alone, and I regret it. However, the conciliation proposal remains valid for the coming weeks. I therefore appeal today to the awareness of the urgency to take measures which, contrary to what some have said, do not weaken the safety of the network but aim to perpetuate the public service of the Belgian railways. Companies, together with all workers, have to meet this challenge. It is now time to start a real dialogue again, out of respect for the commuters, out of respect for the students and out of respect for all Belgians. Out of respect for all citizens of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u43	Mr President, Madam Minister, I would first like to thank Mrs Inez De Coninck for her speech and for the future line she has drawn for rail policy, the one that will be followed by you and the government. Today, we have heard, and we will not be able to say that we have not been warned: "Yes, the rail must be regionalized! Yes, there is no room for social consultation. It is time for all this to stop, for these left-wing extremists and socialists to stop talking. Long live regionalization! The national rail policy is over." Mrs De Coninck, thank you very much for enlightening those who, today, were still in doubt about the destiny that some promise to SNCB. I have a thought for colleagues on the CD&V. I've seen your heads and your mines! We can guess your boredom, Mr Verherstraeten, and your embarrassment at this very clear public statement by Mrs De Coninck. When we talk about the loss of 6,000 jobs, we have to stay cool. We need to be able to speak true. We must be able to transform the social partners into partners. Today, once again, we have no answer about job losses. We have no answer on your part about social consultation, Madam Minister, but we have one from Mrs De Coninck! Honestly, that doesn't reassure me!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u44	Minister, you told us about quality service. You talked about continuity of service, about "stopping to customer dissatisfaction", about increasing productivity. But with what means? It's still the bottom line. With such contradictory answers, also irresponsible, also disrespectful of railwaymen and travellers, we are really in the absurd! I really wish you a happy New Year, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u45	I hear Mrs De Coninck screaming at the unions whose actions would not have been carried out. I only note that the trade unions have 2.5 million members. When I look at the four government parties, I see 200 000 members. I do not understand and I would like to address the colleagues from CD&V. How far does your collection power go? You are involved in a frontal attack on the unions; you look and nod and dare not say anything. I'm sorry about that. Mr Foret is talking about blackmails and political action. It is, of course, a political action, because it is a political choice to save EUR 2.1 billion from SNCB and invest EUR 9 billion in fighter aircraft. It is a political choice to drain 7 000 people, to remove regional lines, to make tickets more expensive for employees and students. That's a political choice. It is therefore logical that, if one does not agree with that, there will be political action. Madam Minister, the key issue remains how you want to save EUR 2.1 billion. You're talking about a strategic plan. All I've seen is a strategic communication. Even the CEOs say your idea is unrealistic. If one does not go into more detail about the way in which savings are being made, I fear that there will be more strike days and that travellers will be left in the cold even more often. It will not be the trade unions' fault, but the government, which wants to cut drastically in public transport at a time when, on the contrary, every expert has to invest in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u46	Mr President, Madam Minister, a figure is requested. Er is één cijfer gevraagd. Several colleagues have asked for a small figure, which is normally easy to give for the purpose of a plan. By 2019, productivity will be increased. How many more men and women are going to work at SNCB? Madam Secretary, one figure has been requested. However, we have not received this figure, which is a democratic disgrace. I will also explain why we did not get that figure. You know, minister, if all users of the public rail service knew that figure... I saw it yesterday when I met the users. They have a lot of questions about the strike, but they don't know anything about the plan that's going to be imposed. When public transport users are informed of the figure of 6,000, they immediately understand social actions. That is why you do not want to give that figure here in Parliament. You don't want to give it because you don't want to make things concrete. You want to keep them very vague and then it's about a soi-disant classe privilégiée. Minister, I will ask you the question clearly. You also did not answer the question of the negotiating margin. In a hurry, you said there's none. There are none – you go. We, civil society, have a difficult problem to solve, both in Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia. You want to continue, you want to push; you want to solve it in a thatcherian way as in the eighties. That is what this is about. You want to get your battle home by pushing. Well, we will continue to mobilise, because people are beginning to understand that if we let you do it, we will lose everything from our public services. Ladies and gentlemen, that is why we are continuing. That's why we're going to put you back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u47	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. Allow me to address Mr Devin, who has addressed me. Mr Devin, I welcome your statement that I am so clear. We are always trying to express our views clearly. That is why I would like to have your clarity. Are you still defending the strikes? Are you still defending Mr Abdissi's statement in the newspaper today that they will stop for weeks if necessary? Are you behind that? Can you also be clear on this, Mr Devin, with the Socialists and sp.a.? (Protests from Mr Devin)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u48	Carry on, Mrs. De Coninck.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u49	Mr President, we are also clear in another area. There must be social elections at SNCB. After all, the current rail trade unions have not been democratically elected in any way. Why should SNCB staff not be allowed to choose their trade union representatives themselves? I get many e-mails from staff who feel absolutely no longer represented by their trade union representatives in view of their attitude. I think that some people in the hemisphere would be surprised how little support the trade unions still have from the SNCB staff. We want democratic and social syndicalism and not bullying syndicalism.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u50	Madam Minister, I thank you for your answers and your clarifications of the untruths that the opposition constantly distils. I note that there will be no dismissal, that there is no question of the status of railway workers and of the working regime, that the safety and quality of service are not called into question. That's the opposite! I note that the government is determined to sustain the rail in the constructive dialogue, but also to ensure that respect for travellers and commuters is a reality in Belgium. Thank you, Minister! Go on!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u51	Minister, the responsibility for this waste is yours! You're trying to oppose the railwaymen and the commuters. It's a mistake. Those who take the train know the dedication of these workers who are trying to defend their company and defend the train. Will you finally, in your capacity as Minister of Mobility, defend the train, the means for the train, ensure that there are more trains, faster trains, on time with wider coverage at the hourly level? No! You are telling us that the plan you have tabled will not be adjusted. We cannot with the savings you are planning for SNCB to drive trains, fulfill your and our climate ambitions! As ecologists, we think it's not enough to criticize. My colleagues Marcel Cheron, Stefaan Van Hecke and I tabled, before the holidays, an alternative management plan to the one you're filing. It is possible and necessary to make the train trend. The train, Madam Minister, is the future!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u52	Mr President, Minister, your answer shows determination and responsibility. You have made it clear that the government's plan is not being changed. Colleagues, the plan is needed, I repeat, not to crash the train company. Finally, Madam Minister, I would like to say a few words about guaranteed services. On 11 December, you said in plenary that you would draw the sheet to you, that you would take the initiative. The Open Vld calls on you to come forward with a draft law in the short term so that we will be present in the Committee on Infrastructure and the Chair to begin the debate on that guaranteed service, including on the basis of good practices abroad, where this does work, I am thinking of Spain, for example.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u53	Mr President, Mr Devin has addressed me personally. I would like to take the floor for a personal statement. I would like to respond very briefly to what he said. Mr Devin, my group and I also regret this strike and we do not understand it either. However, we respect all those who have not stopped and have insured the service, for which we thank them. We call on everyone to end strike mode and talk. Talking happens at the table; talking is not shouting, not sending blame to each other, but looking for solutions. That means talking about the Minister's plan. All those who have stopped and all those who have given heavy gas today, including from the majority, I call on them to stop throwing oil on the fire. We need oil on the waves because otherwise we will not get out and there will be no solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to respect the last questioner of the day as well?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u55	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to apologize in advance for my hoarse voice. I have a bit of a cold. Over the last few weeks, we've been confronted with a remarkable phenomenon. Before Christmas we saw that there were many trucks parked in several places in our country, including in Opglabbeek but also in many coastal towns, sometimes in parkings but also in meadows. Apparently, these were lorries from Eastern European firms. The transport unions have been calling the bells and saying that this is really about social dumping. It is about drivers who apparently return to their country of origin before Christmas holidays. It is people who receive a dumping wage, EUR 250 per month and a limited daily allowance, while our legislation lays down in the collective agreement that there should be equal pay for equal work. In the case of lorries that are effective here, the same wage and working conditions must be granted. Mr Secretary of State, you announced at that time that you would take action. In the meantime, the social inspection has also effectively recorded the number plates and taken photos. I'll come to my questions. First of all, what else did this investigation get? In the meantime, have pvvs been drawn up? Have any responsible persons been identified? Secondly, on a proposal from Mr Clarinval, I tabled a resolution together with Mr Raskin and Mr Lachaert to tackle social dumping, a resolution adopted in the summer. One of our proposals was that bilateral agreements should also be concluded with countries which are found to be highly exposed to social dumping. This is the case, among other things, for Romania, Bulgaria and in this case Hungary. Have you also made contacts with Hungary and Romania in the meantime? Apparently, most drivers come from those two countries. Do you have any idea of possible agreements to tackle social dumping? Will you conclude a bilateral agreement with these countries? Finally, what action will you take to tackle social dumping? Has there been any consultation with the transport associations that have effectively raised the problem? That is also what we have included in the resolution. I would like to know what your specific plans are in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u56	Mrs Lanjri, ladies and gentlemen, before Christmas I contacted the Social Inspectorate to launch an investigation. As you say, we scanned all the plates on the spot: not only in Opglabbeek, but also in other municipalities and also in Bredene, Zeebrugge and Ostend on the coast. There are investigations going on at the courthouse today. You know that I was once chairman of a committee on the separation of powers. As long as the investigation is ongoing, I will not interfere with it or make any statements about it. I have learned my lesson in this respect from a number of past events. The Social Inspectorate has found that it is mainly about a Hungarian company with no head office in Belgium. That's important. We are talking about foreign drivers who hardly return home. Then, as you say, the Belgian wage and working conditions apply. The investigation is ongoing. We also stop drivers from carrying out road checks. Scanning the plates isn't enough: if we run into the drivers, they'll be stopped and questioned. That requires interpretation, because it is not that simple. This means that we will have to wait a little longer for the results of the investigation. The problem in the transport sector is a major problem. As you know, therefore, I am going to Bulgaria and Romania with the Social Affairs Committee led by Mr Van Quickenborne. We do not have bilateral contacts with Hungary at the moment, but we will work on that. I said that I would present a plan for fair competition in the transport sector before the Krokus holiday. Since March 2015, discussions have been ongoing with the social partners, with the employers and with my colleague Mr Galant, Mr Van Overtveldt and Mr Borsus. This plan will contain 30 concrete measures at national, Benelux and European level. I am doing everything I can to ensure fair competition in this sector, but this dossier also proves the usefulness of a Social Fraud hotline, as one was set up in October. I said a few months ago that within a few weeks we will also have a hotline for organisations, for trade unions, for employers as well as for consumer organisations and the League of Human Rights. Mr Jambon has just called for all sexual crimes to be reported. Well, I'm asking all the organisations and individuals involved to keep reporting such cases, because these are also crimes. It is only together that we can win the fight against social dumping. We will do everything we can, Mrs Lanjri, to do this together with the trade unions, together with the employers and with Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u57	Mr Tommelein, it is clear that in our country the separation of powers applies. I'm certainly not asking you to intervene in court. I note, however, that reports have indeed been drawn up. It was one of my questions if the court investigates this further. You say you'll be sitting at the table with the transport sector. That is also what we asked for in our resolution. I would urge you, in the meantime, to work on the concrete proposals made in the resolution which have been approved by the various parties. One of these proposals was to conclude bilateral agreements with the countries concerned in order to improve the exchange of information. I hope that it is not just planning and that you are taking effective action. I fully understand that the court must do its job, but in this respect the transport unions are very clear: we must tackle this form of social dumping. This is actually a modern form of slavery. People are being exploited because a monthly wage of 250 euros is not the wage that applies here. Moreover, it creates unfair competition from transport companies which do respect the correct wage and working conditions. In their interests and in the interests of employment with us, I therefore ask you to take firm and firm action.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u58	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 January 2016, I also propose that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mrs Laurette Onkelinx and Mr Ahmed Laaouej and Mr Stéphane Crusnière) to improve the follow-up and handling of the information transmitted by the Financial Data Processing Cell in order to combat effectively the financing of terrorism and money laundering, No. 1542/1; - the legislative proposal (Mrs Laurette Onkelinx and Mr Ahmed Laaouej and Mr Stéphane Crusnière) to improve cooperation between the Financial Data Processing Cell and the anti-terrorist institutions, No. 1544/1; - the bill (Mrs Laurette Onkelinx and Mr Stéphane Crusnière and Mr Ahmed Laaouej) amending the law of 11 January 1993 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing in order to give the CFI access to the register of bank accounts kept by the NBB, No. 1545/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u59	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 January 2016, I also propose that you take into account: - the bill (Ms. Laurette Onkelinx and MM. Ahmed Laaouej and Stéphane Crusnière) to improve the monitoring and processing by prosecutors of information transmitted by the Financial Information Processing Unit with a view to effectively combating the financing of terrorism and money laundering, No. 1542/1; - the bill (Ms. Laurette Onkelinx and MM. Ahmed Laaouej and Stéphane Crusnière) to improve cooperation between CTIF and counter-terrorism agencies, No. 1544/1; - the bill (Ms. Laurette Onkelinx and MM. Stéphane Crusnière and Ahmed Laaouej) amending the Act of 11 January 1993 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and the financing of terrorism, allowing CTIF to have access to the register of bank accounts hosted by the BNB, No. 1545/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u60	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I also propose the motion for a resolution (Mr Benoit Hellings and Mr Wouter De Vriendt, Mrs Meyrem Almaci, Mrs Anne Dedry and Mr Muriel Gerkens and Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, Mr Kristof Calvo and Mr Georges Gilkinet) on environmental migration and displacement, No. 1538/1 to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u61	I also propose that you take into account the motion for a resolution (MM). Benoit Hellings and Wouter De Vriendt, Mrs Meyrem Almaci, Anne Dedry en Muriel Gerkens en de heren Jean-Marc Nollet, Kristof Calvo en Georges Gilkinet) on the migration and displacement of populations linked to environmental factors, No. 1538/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u62	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-07-54-plenair-ip093x.u63	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the week of 11 January 2016. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sittings of the week of January 11, 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 14 January 2016 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday 14 January 2016 at 2.15 p.m.
