ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u1	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this question was introduced a long time ago. So we're a little in a certain anachronism. I tabled it at the end of August or early September - I don't know exactly - about the announcement of the partial closure of 207 post offices. The closing hours have been greatly reduced in these offices. It is now the end of November. This decision was made by bpost during the summer. I think it was announced in early July and implemented in early September. This is a time when, at the end of the previous session, there was no opportunity to ask questions in Parliament and any wave of protests was difficult to express. I see that this is not the first time this has worked. As a rural elected official, I want to stress the importance of public service also in rural areas. All citizens should be equal in access to public services. Unfortunately, in rural areas – other colleagues here can confirm this – many citizens see themselves as second-class citizens in relation to this type of decision. There is no reason why public service should be less developed in sparsely populated or decentralised areas. The effect of this decision is that, with reduced hours, the population, since statistics are being made, will desert these post offices even further. This will probably already be the prelude to future restrictions. There won't be enough customers. We are in a vicious circle that leads us to the destruction of this public service. I plead for a virtuous circle that makes it possible to be imaginative, including in rural areas, to maintain and develop public services, a post office in this case. Reducing the opening hours of rural post offices does not mean showing a lack of interest for these rural communes and their citizens, while they live in specific realities and have the same needs as other citizens in this country? Has there been a social dialogue with workers' representatives in the post on this decision, and what have been its purposes? Is this bpost management based on criteria of economic profitability not counterproductive with regard to the services provided to users? We are witnessing a steady and gradual weakening of the public service and its missions, particularly in rural or semi-urban areas. Shouldn't we go the other way around this heavy trend? What is the long-term vision of bpost management regarding accessibility, post office missions in small rural communes? Is there still a will to defend them or are they going to close down gradually and services are shrinking? Postal service is an important service for all. It should therefore be strengthened in order to ensure continuity and accessibility of the public service at equal rates for all. This is the opposite of what we are seeing today in rural areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u2	Madam President, my colleague Jean-Marc Delizée has just outlined the situation. My reflection was part of the closure of Jemelle's post, with the loss of 48 jobs. This is the closure of one post among many other planned closures in the provinces of Liège and Hainaut. Various municipalities are worried about the services provided by bpost, Jean-Marc, you said. In Liège, between December 2010 and June 2016, the number of offices and post points decreased by 10%. In Hainaut, the loss was 6 per cent. In addition, the opening hours of 179 postal points have been reduced throughout Belgium. Minister, are further closures being considered? If so, which ones? I quote a number of communes that surround mine. From Anderlues, Binche to Soignies and Thuin, should we expect a close next? Can you explain to us, beyond the demographic element, why the provinces of Liège and Hainaut are the most affected in terms of the closure of posts?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u3	Mr President, Minister, since September 5, bpost has made the decision to adjust the opening hours of certain post offices. For example, in my commune, Bièvre, but one could mention communes such as Gedinne, Vresse or Viroinval, the post office is open every afternoon and only one morning a week, i.e. Thursday. In your recent letter to me on this subject, you explain this change by telling me that, in addition to post offices, there is now a range of choices for customers, namely stamp stores, contact centres, internet applications such as e-shop or e-banking. However, my municipality and several neighbouring villages are located in a white area, where internet connections and gsm networks are difficult or even non-existent. These new timetables also force us to take certain administrative steps. For example, in order to send an all-box, we have no choice but to make it appear on Fridays, since the post office in Bièvre is open only on Thursday mornings and we have to drop the shipments the day before in the morning. We tried the experiment by asking for the deposit another day, it was denied to us. It's really amazing! For a release another day than Friday, we have to go to Vresse-sur-Semois, 20 minutes' drive, in order to get the deposit of an all-boxes outside of Friday. Once again, I regret to note that our rural areas are heavily penalized. The desertification of services is becoming increasingly prevalent there. Minister, the decision to reduce the opening hours of rural post offices (those that are kept in the least populated communes) seriously penalizes the inhabitants. Those who, as in Bièvre, combine the handicap of being in a white zone, cannot benefit from the alternatives mentioned. What do you think of this situation? Are you going to take steps to get bpost back on these opening hours reductions? Will you allow the services offered in these locations to be the same as elsewhere, for example, to be able to deposit and distribute all boxes every day of the week? So, a little flexibility to compensate for the loss of this service.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u4	Mr President, with regard to the fact that the answer to this question is only given in November, I would point out that a question on the same subject was already asked a few weeks ago. I think some of you weren't here. This theme has already been addressed on several occasions. But not everyone can always be there. I don't want anyone to think I'm not answering the questions. Answers to this question have already been provided earlier. I can confirm that bpost has made the decision to adapt the opening hours of some post offices from September 5th. First of all, I would like to refer to the general context. First, post offices are no longer the only access channel to bpost services. Indeed, in recent years bpost has considerably expanded access channels to its services. While customers had to rely only on post offices before, they now have a range of choices: post offices, post offices, stamp shops, contact centers, package distributors and internet applications such as e-shop, e-banking and apps. We see, and I can give you these figures, that between 2010 and 2015, the total number of contacts remained the same. In 2010, the total number of contacts was just over 61 million. In 2015, with 100,000 contacts, the situation was the same. It is noted that contact via post points has increased by 27%, while contact via post offices has decreased by 25%. In 2010, the number of contacts via post offices was 42,700,000, while in 2015 the number had fallen to 32,429,000. Simply put, post offices are much less used as points of contact. This is prior to this decision, since it concerns 2015. On the other hand, customer behaviour is a second determining factor in this decision. The operations carried out by clients at the bpost counters are monitored on an ongoing basis: the number of contacts, the nature of the operations and the time they take, the waiting time of the customers before they are served, periods of strong and less influence. In particular, it is these parameters that allow bpost to adapt the opening hours of the post office according to the behaviour of its clients. The result of this exercise, which was the subject of a social dialogue, was finally approved by the Management Committee on 28 June. For 402 of the 662 post offices, nothing changes. In 48 post offices, the opening hours were extended slightly, while in 33 offices, the average reduction was at least 2 hours per week. In 179 offices, adaptation is of greater scope. These are small offices where it was found that, on average, 46% of the current opening time was not used. This means that for 46% of the opening time, the person at the counter had no one to serve. The 179 offices account for 25 per cent of the network but only 13 per cent of the activities. A few more interesting things. In 75% of the post office network or 87% of customer contacts, the impact is positive, neutral or very slightly negative. Accessibility on Saturdays or outside of office hours increased by 6%. The level of quality of service, i.e. 80% of customers must be served within 5 minutes, is maintained. It is mainly the inactive time and off-peak hours that have been targeted. In addition, bpost sought an appropriate balance between the need for a presence of public service in rural areas and the reality on the ground, taking into account the high rate of inactivity. In the post offices concerned, the inactivity rate has an average of 46%. Some concrete examples of rural post offices in the province of Namur: Doische, that was 5%, Bièvre, 51%, Viroinval, 50%, Havelange, 48%, Gedinne, 48%, La Bruyère, 45%, Hastière, 39%, Floreffe, 38%.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u5	Minister, what is this percentage?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u6	This is the time of inactivity. This is the time during which people at the counter do not have an activity. After this reorganization, the management contract is still fully respected by bpost, in particular with regard to the presence of a post office in each municipality or the installation of an ATM in the communes where this service is not or more offered by the private sector. As mentioned above, these decisions have been submitted to the company's relevant Joint Sub-Committee. It has been confirmed that this reorganization will be carried out without dismissal. The loss of jobs will be absorbed by natural attrition and conversion. Mr Devin, in order to avoid any ambiguity, I would like to make a clarification with regard to Jemelle. bpost intends to reorganize its activities on the Jemelle site. These activities are of an internal logistical nature. It is therefore not a matter of closing a post office but of restructuring of activities. For the rest, I affirm that the sixth management contract provides that bpost would maintain a presence of at least 650 post offices while guaranteeing at least one post office in each of the 589 communes. In the communes mentioned by you, there are 24 post offices and 27 post points. bpost is therefore fully compliant with the management contract and does not yet intend to close one or more post offices in these municipalities. bpost confirms that the contract is applied uniformly throughout the country and without any discrimination. With regard to Mr Clarinval's question, I note that the distribution of unaddressed consignments is a commercial product of bpost, which is not part of the universal service or public service obligations that have been assigned to bpost. Therefore, this product is not subject to the legal or regulatory provisions governing the postal service. It is therefore not a matter of ministerial responsibility. Nevertheless, the point you raise deserves our attention. I will ask bpost to consider more flexibility. A solution can certainly be found to this deposit problem that can only be done on Thursday morning. Ms. Poncelet did not ask her question. Nevertheless, I will read out the answer addressed to him. In Saint-Hubert, in the province of Luxembourg, bpost found a time of inactivity of 39%. As a result, opening hours have been adjusted. The staff have experienced the same evolution, as elsewhere in the company, i.e. the integration of an e-mail team into the Libramont e-mail centre and the adaptation of the number of counters in post offices.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I will allow myself to read carefully all the figures that are delivered to us because, live and in bulk, it is not obvious to remember and analyze everything. I would like to react on several points. First of all, you're talking about a range of services. It is clear that a post office with a complete assortment or even a basic assortment of services and a post office is not exactly the same. I do not worry about the fact that post points may have some appeal in terms of opening hours or proximity. They can do some services, but what I believe is essential for citizens is the financial services of the post which, of course, are not of the same nature in a postal office and in a post office. I also aim at the quality of service that is rendered from one entity to another. Secondly, of course, I will see all the figures again. You're giving me a statistical answer. However, such an answer does not always correspond to a reality on the ground. I take the example of my commune, which was cited in Namur province. The post office moved a few years ago for various local reasons. The chosen location is, on the one hand, less well located - it is decentralized - and on the other hand, there is a huge parking problem. Sometimes the answer to the question of attendance is not to be found in the statistics that are changing downwards, but in the existence of other reasons why we can find answers through dialogue with local entities, municipalities. I therefore believe that, behind the statistical response, it is important to examine the reality of the field in a number of cases. You confirm that 179 of the 207 offices, that is to say, a very large majority, have a greater reduction in attendance. Basically, they are open half-time instead of full-time. I also wanted to ask you for confirmation of this ten-kilometre rule that Bpost derogated from a few months ago, with your support, namely that within a municipality, when two offices were more than ten kilometres apart, a rule in the management contract allowed for their protection. Bpost chose to remove, if not all, in any case, several of the small offices that were "protected" by this ten-kilometre rule but within a municipality. I have two fears. Indeed, from the moment we do part-time schedules, why don't we make quarter-time schedules, one day a week, or half-day a week? This reduction in opening hours can be continued on the basis of reduced attendance at post offices. The less open they are, the fewer customers are statistically received! Can you guarantee here that this rule of office mesh and this ten-kilometre rule within a municipality will not be affected? If you remove the concept of a communal border, you can very well have a post office in a municipality located less than ten kilometres from the post office of another municipality. And if this rule were removed, some offices would still be abolished and the principle of a post office per commune would no longer be respected, even if the hours had been reduced. I wanted to ask you to confirm that this mesh rule will not be affected and that the concept of communal territory will not be removed. To my colleague Mr Clarinval, who regretted the situation, I would like to say that the government he supports is taking successive restrictive measures for public services in rural areas. Will he support the Minister's policy note if it is not amended to defend public services in small rural communes?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u8	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your answer. First of all, I take note of the fact that in my region there will no longer be any abolition of post points or post offices. Thank you for the clarifications regarding Jemelle. The figures you give give give rise to two reflections. It is certain that between 2010 and 2016, due to the closure of post offices, there is proportionally greater attendance at post points. But what attracts my attention is that, despite the closure of post offices, despite the reduction in attendance hours, there are still as many contacts. So there's an effect of communicating vases, but people still need that. The closer the point is, the wider the accessibility and the better it is for a public service and its users.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u9	Minister, I would like to react in three steps. The management contract provides for one post office per commune and a priori, it is expected that this post office will be opened. I'm assuming there's an interpretation a little...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u10	I have addressed this question to the minister, not to you!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u11	Yes, but I find that the position interprets the management contract in a somewhat dishonest way by saying that the office is present when it is closed. For me, from the moment it is closed, it is not present. To say that it is open half the time is not a fair interpretation of the management contract. As Jean-Marc Delizée said, there is a vicious circle. It is certain that from the moment a post office is closed for half the time, fewer and fewer people will go to the post office, and in doing so, we will find a pretext to close it a little later. SMEs in my municipality feel that, since they can no longer post their mail in the morning, they need to do otherwise. For organisational reasons, they need to post their mail in the morning. I am not throwing the stone at you, minister, as it is an autonomous company and it is it that has interpreted the management contract to its sauce. But I regret this interpretation, which I find unfortunate. In addition, we must be aware of the fact that the most rural municipalities, as in the case of Viroinval and Bièvre, combine the problems. The fact of decreasing its public service offer and having bad internet networks makes these municipalities less attractive. A vicious circle is thus taking place, which is not positive for these regions. In doing so, this process should be stopped at least at the level of Internet networks. Finally, I would like to thank you for letting bpost know the need for minimum flexibility for unaddressed shipments. Even if this is not included in the management contract, it is a matter of common sense. In my view, a modern company like bpost that has great international ambitions must also not neglect its loyal and loyal customer, namely the Belgian customer. In addition, a rural customer has the same rights as an urban customer. I know that you are attentive to the question, and I thank you for that. On the other hand, I would like to reassure my colleague Jean-Marc Delizée, with whom we have a lot of debate, by informing him that, despite this small blunder, I will continue to support the government in the months to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u12	This is a great disappointment! I thought we would amend the general policy note together!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u13	Mr President, my colleague, when the management contract was renewed, nothing was changed with regard to the requirement for post offices. The management contract is virtually the same as the previous one and therefore the rules are maintained. According to the rule, there must be at least one post office in each municipality. This management contract is valid until 2020. How will it be negotiated after 2020? I have no idea... I don't know if I'll still be there and if I still have the ambition to be there. Compared to the white areas, Mr.Clarinval, we are involved in the implementation of many projects. The contact numbers are in a small table that I will send you. It gives the number of contact points between 2010 and 2015 for contact centres, websites, post points, post offices, and the number of contact points between 2010 and 2015. You will see that all this has changed well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u14	Jemelle's bpost site is important. In late August, the press announced the programming of the closure of the bpost depot located in Jemelle, Rochefort entity. This closure is expected to happen within two years, according to the press. Mr Clarinval has left us for another commission, but I was thinking, minister, if we can build a prison in Sugny, in the entity of Vresse-sur-Semois, in the fief of a Member of Parliament of the majority, as now there is a Jemelle minister, in the entity of Rochefort, I think we could maintain the bpost office located in Jemelle. It's obviously a joke. But this closure would result in the loss of 48 local jobs in Jemelle. It would be another blow to this historic site. According to my information, this closure was announced by the Strategic Commission meeting on 23 August. Once again, this decision was made during the summer holidays, a good time to limit any disputes. In short, I come to my questions, Minister. Do you confirm this decision to close Jemelle's bpost deposit and confirm that it is a final decision? Or independently of the arrival of a Rochefort minister in the government, in the circumstances we know, could this decision be reviewed? What are bpost's reasons for this decision? As far as the workers in Jemelle are concerned, what would be their future? Has there been a dialogue with bpost staff representatives about this decision? Finally, with regard to the relationship with the city of Rochefort, whose reigning mayor is now a member of the government: the town of Rochefort owns the building of Jemelle; has it been informed beforehand of this closure project? The city had made major investments in the building. Are there any prospects with the city of Rochefort for the future of this 11 000-square-metre building, if the closure of the depot is confirmed? You might as well say that about 50 jobs in a rural area like Rochefort is not nothing. And I think it is normal for the elected representatives of this region to be interested in this issue of employment and its maintenance in the rural environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u15	Mr Delizée, we understand that there is a minister coming from Rochefort, you have repeated it three times, I think. As far as the comparison with a prison is concerned, from the point of view of accessibility, it is not the same needs. A postal office or distribution centre must be as accessible as possible, while a prison, in the sense of "export", must be as accessible as possible. So, comparing a prison with a postal office seems inappropriate to me. bpost informed me that she intended to reorganize her activities on the Jemelle site. This is not a closure of the bpost deposit but a restructuring of activities. This reorganization is part of the development of e-commerce in Belgium. For bpost, it is essential that the architecture of the fulfilling activities be well adapted to this evolution of the market. This reorganisation will be the subject of a dialogue with the social partners in the coming months. Until this dialogue is completed, no details can be given and the commune of Rochefort has been informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u16	Minister, thank you and I take note of the answers given to me. The comparison of prison and postal activity, I mentioned it as a boutade, rather to indicate the political weight that can be that of either. Sometimes decisions may seem a little out of date. The post office must be accessible. I have quoted the case of my commune, where it is not well located. But a prison must be accessible too! This is not our committee's debate, but it must be accessible to families, to the reintegration of prisoners, to lawyers, to travel, which is almost impossible in winter. I may have taken the example of a bad decision in prison, but it is not that postal activities should not be accessible, of course. I take note of your answer and point out that for the Rochefort region, maintaining these fifty jobs locally is absolutely essential. If, within two years, the closure of this depot in Jemelle-Rochefort is confirmed, I shall regret it, even if a minister of your government comes from this commune.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u17	Mr President, Minister, my question is a few months ago. I am not saying that to criticize, but to make it clear that it may need to be updated. I'm counting on you. In July 2016, 17 major European telecommunications companies, including Proximus, submitted to the European Commission a manifesto for 5G: a super fast mobile internet that seems essential for autonomous cars, the best electricity networks, but also to allow other new services. These telecommunications companies are only willing to invest in the deployment of a 5G network if Europe adopts less stringent rules for network neutrality as part of a major reform of telecom regulation. At the time, the Commission had said that it would issue a proposal in the autumn. Maybe there's something new about it. However, the neutrality of the network is essential for consumer protection. This principle prohibits, for example, telecom operators from artificially reducing the speed of certain services or requesting additional money for the provision of a better service. Minister, what is your position on this situation? What will be the consequences for our economy as well as for consumer protection if Europe limits the power of the telecoms sector, and thus reduces, in a way, regulation? On the contrary, what risks will be incurred if Europe does not adopt less stringent rules for network neutrality? While the 4G has not yet deployed 100%, the 5G race is already underway. What will this new technology bring to consumers? What will be the characteristics of this fifth generation of mobile telephony standards?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u18	Madam, this message was above all a reflection of the concerns of telecom operators regarding the proposal of the Body of European Regulators for Electronic Communications (BEREC). This had no influence on the development of the definitive guidelines on network neutrality. The final guidelines allow Internet users to freely benefit from the content, applications and services of their choice. Network neutrality helps create a level playing field and stimulates innovation in the digital economy. The main purpose of network neutrality control is to define, detect and address abuses rather than hinder the operation of telecom operators. The current guidelines on network neutrality do not in any way prevent telecom operators from developing innovative products or improving the quality of their networks or from managing them in order to ensure their proper functioning with a view to achieving the objective of network neutrality. 5G is above all a new way of thinking about electronic communications. This is not the 4G technology that is supposed to take over. 5G should host the Internet of Things as much as it should operate critical applications or offer greater performance than 4G. 5G is not yet standardized. The first 5G commercial networks are scheduled for launch in 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u19	Minister, I'm afraid I didn't understand everything because you spoke very quickly. As I understand it, there is no influence over the "threats" that telecoms have made. It is true that this could simply be found scandalous, that such a lobby could be made, especially since the telecoms sector is doing well and it is also a sector where large dividends and significant remuneration are given to top managers. So, we can imagine that these companies can invest in everything that needs to be installed to have 5G. My question was about the importance of consumer protection. I invite you to be careful, to ensure this balance between having profitability for the company – I have no concern with that – but also to have particular attention to consumer protection. I find that, at the level of government, the area of consumer protection is a little poor. I really draw your attention to this problem, while knowing that 5G is very interesting for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u20	Mr President, Minister, as part of the implementation of the "Digital Act" plan for Belgium, electronic transmission of public sector documents to its private interlocutors will now be legally possible. With the aim of implementing these new digital communication opportunities as soon as possible, you have recently announced your intention to work on setting up an official mailbox, which will allow citizens and entrepreneurs to receive a range of personal information or letters from the public administration. A step forward that could lead to substantial savings when it is known that last year the federal government spent no less than €66.8 million on postage only. Minister, my questions about this are as follows. What documents can be actually sent from this official mailbox? Will it also enable the citizen to communicate and transmit, where appropriate, certain information to the FPS? Has your department been able to estimate the potential economy generated by the use of these new digital communication channels? If so, what are the amounts advanced? When do you expect to see this new official mailbox operational?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u21	Ms Jadin, the service of an official e-mail box, the Federal e-Box, will be able to transport any document that is associated with interaction between citizens or the company and public services. We immediately think of sending documents of proof, certificates of a right to status, documents that contain more than digital data such as a property plan, photos or other. The computer system that supports the official electronic mailbox will be designed in such a way that, from a technical point of view, in principle, any document can be transmitted. There will of course be some constraints such as, for example, a limitation on the size or standards of compatibility, format and metadata associated with the document. That said, the deployment of the e-Box will be done by procedure. The interactions that will be supported first will be those where the e-Box delivers an attractive profit. The reduction potential will often be observed in terms of the cost of mailing, but also indirectly in terms of the quality of information, and the speed of processing and response. We cannot separate the function of the e-Box from that of the computer processing of the information that passes with the communication. Computer processing systems must also be ready to accommodate electronic communications alongside conventional postal reception. Each public service will therefore define its own deployment plan. The e-Box solution will first be for document communication but does not exclude a messaging function, more traditional electronic emails. Above all, notifications of availability, new documents or acknowledgements of receipt will be available from the beginning. The operation of conventional electronic mails is probably less priority, but certainly not excluded. Finally, the question of the two-way nature of communications still arises. Priority will be given to communicating public service to citizens, businesses, but reverse communication is certainly possible as well. Compared to your second question, encrypting the potential assets of an e-Box service is not obvious. Direct costs are still relatively simple to estimate for each interaction procedure. Encrypting indirect earnings is not so obvious. Indirect gains may exceed direct gains. They can be considerable in the procedure or in the quality of the information, but also, for example, in terms of the costs of digitisation, of similar information by means of scanning devices. Again, a good estimate cannot be made service-by-service, or even procedure-by-procedure interaction. This estimate was not made for all services. Cumulative information is not yet available. The working group following the implementation of the production of the e-Box service is set up. An analysis of costs and needs at the federal level, but also in our neighbouring countries, has been carried out. It is a matter of finding a unique solution. All of this is under way. From this exercise, we intend to select, in the short term, a partner who will take over the production of the first version of the e-Box service. We have to wait for proposals from the candidate partners but the start-up will most certainly take place towards the end of 2017 or the beginning of 2018. It all depends on the priority needs that we want to cover in this first analysis. Specific e-mail boxes are already deployed in social security administrations and health care.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for all these clarifications. There is no need to tell you all the good that I think of your project, especially as to how easy it could be for our fellow citizens, if the tool is effective. The setting-up is being carried out. You mentioned a bilingual, trilingual mailbox, that would be even better.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u23	Mr Minister, my first question concerns the modernisation of the tariff simulator. That simulator has been in operation for a number of years and we think it would be good to renew it so that it better meets the questions and requirements that are being asked today regarding products, services and the availability of mobile apps. In concrete terms, I have the following questions. Will the simulator be renewed? What's the timing? We read about it in your policy paper. Will a user-friendly application for mobile devices be developed? Will there be a link with the invoices, for example? My second question concerns the rise in telecom prices. Occasionally there is a debate in the media about our country's comparison with other countries. We see new players on the market trying to market lower price tariff formulas, with or without more services in terms of data, call minutes and the like. The telecoms legislation was a good thing at the time, because it moved the market. Elements such as the easy switch were brought forward in order to achieve a certain mobility in that market. My questions on this are as follows. When will there be an effect to establish the recently launched easy-switch campaign? How do you explain the price increases on the fixed telephony and bundles market? The reason for this is not so easy to indicate. Will you take initiatives to reduce price increases and ensure that access to the market is guaranteed? My final question is about the campaign "Dare to compare." In the written record of my question, I gave the figures on the number of consultations of the simulator. From 150 000 in 2012 it went to 800 000 in 2013. However, this increase appears to have stopped, with only 300 000 consultations on the date of 30 September 2016. Do you intend to launch another campaign "Comparative with courage" so that the general public can be alerted to this? What is the state of implementation of the new provisions in telecoms legislation in relation to the determination of the usage pattern for Internet products and bundles? Has the BIPT issued the detailed rules for the new obligations as laid down in the law? Have any checks been carried out on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u24	In a free market economy, prices are generally determined by the market. The market reality is that more and more consumers decrease bundles from one operator and that these bundles improve quality year after year at a higher cost. There is therefore not enough competition on the market. The market regulation of BIPT and media regulators should ensure that there are sufficient alternative operators to boost competition. I encourage BIPT and the CRC to continue to pay attention to this, to carry out a thorough market analysis and, where possible, to increase competitiveness on the market. The decisions of BIPT and media regulators have opened the cable in recent years and Orange Belgium has recently entered the market with lower prices. For the time being, this has not had an impact on the main prices of the other providers. However, price pressure will increase as more Belgians switch to a cheaper subscription. That is why a high-performance tariff simulator is needed, on which consumers can discover and compare. Further improvements to the tariff simulator are under way, including improved accessibility via the smartphone. A new specifications were issued for this purpose. The introduction of the new tool is planned for early 2019. Instead of a complex and privacy sensitive automatic link between each operator's invoice and the comparison program, an alternative approach has been chosen, whereby BIPT by decision of 16 August 2016 makes it easier for consumers to use the tariff simulator. From 1 June 2017, operators are obliged to provide consumers with all useful information about their consumption on a secure customer page that they can easily copy to the tariff simulator form. Downloading this useful info in the customer area and loading into the tariff simulator will be investigated under the new tariff simulator. The Royal Decree of 6 September 2016 reduces the technical and administrative burden of changing operator by introducing an easy-switch procedure from 1 July 2017. The Royal Decree provides that BIPT will evaluate the functioning of this new procedure two years after the entry into force of the Decision and make recommendations for improvements. In the near future, a broad information campaign will be developed to inform consumers about the benefits of this new easys-witch procedure and will also refer to bestrate.be, to compare rates, which should increase the awareness of bestrate.be. Finally, with regard to your question about a low-cost tariff plan, the current legislation appears to be very complex in the case of bundles, since consumer preference in terms of quality and channel offer is not known and varies greatly from customer to customer, leading to a long and unclear list of possible subscriptions. It is currently looking at how legislation can be adapted to something that can be implemented and usable for the customer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Of course, operators are free to offer products. I believe that a large number of compatriots have far too heavy products with too much capacity. The extra push to go to the right format, I think should be looked at.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u26	Mr President, Minister, I have had the opportunity to go through a book written by our distinguished Prime Minister Guy Verhofstadt on European evil. On page 193, he highlights the digital desert in which Europe is plunged. In the area of broadband, he noted that Japan, South Korea and the United States had, together, the same number of inhabitants as the European Union, but they had eight times more fixed broadband Internet and fifteen times more than 4G. He pointed out that, in recent years, even Russia had deployed more fibre optic connections than all European countries. I imagine you're going to try to remedy this situation with your Digital Belgium plan. It's an ambitious plan. I fully agree with you that the very high-speed Internet is crucial for the growth of our economy, particularly that of Wallonia, which is lagging technologically behind Brussels and Flanders. Guy Verhofstadt also notes in his book that digital companies are moving to countries that benefit from high technology. The top ten state-of-the-art technology companies are either American or Asian. It is likely that there is a conclusion to be drawn with regard to the provision of broadband. In Belgium, 435 000 homes do not have an internet connection and mainly in Wallonia. This technological gap deprives the populations concerned of the tools necessary for their education, information and development. The rates announced by the operators, which correspond to a rate established by them, are not always respected. Some unfortunate customers sometimes pay a fee to not even get 50% of the advertised debit. With regard to compliance with the flow rate, your measure 16 of the Digital Belgium plan mentions a "new online measuring instrument". This new instrument could serve as a basis for a claim for the amount of the invoice in the event of non-compliance with the announced debits. This legal recourse of customers would thus have the effect of encouraging service providers to make the necessary investments in areas less profitable for them, so that the quality of connections is everywhere the same for the same pricing. Are you considering putting a particular emphasis on the connection of these houses, mainly in Wallonia? Would it be conceivable to take legal measures to lighten the bill of customers who do not benefit from 50% of the announced speed, and to consider an invoice in proportion to the speed measured by your online measuring instrument? What exactly is the status of this online measuring instrument? Is it already operational? Is he going to be so soon?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u27	Minister, today the Internet is an indispensable tool for carrying out certain tasks of daily life. I'm talking about searching for information, sending e-mails, doing banking, and much more. In view of this, it is essential that the entire Belgian population be able to benefit from correct connections enabling it to benefit from a fast internet connection. Unfortunately, as my colleague has said, for some people, this is not the case, especially in Wallonia. In some villages, especially those in my municipality, Tournai, whole streets do not have adequate internet access. This is due to a clear lack of efficient infrastructure in some remote areas, called "white areas". Minister, the Digital Belgium initiative giving the digital vision of the kingdom focuses in particular on the infrastructure aspect. On the website presenting the approach, it is noted: "By reducing costs and red tape, we encourage operators to continue the development of advanced broadband infrastructure. Thanks to a mix of technologies, we make sure we give everyone access to the Internet." In addition, on Wednesday, 19 October, you announced the launch of the White Zone Action Plan, which aims to provide solutions to those living in areas with little broadband connectivity. Mr Minister, citizens now expect concrete results as soon as possible. Which cities do broadband coverage not exceed 60%? Could you tell me where you are going with Internet providers, in order to improve broadband access for all citizens, especially those living in these white areas? Thank you already for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u28	Colleagues, housing that cannot be connected to broadband is mainly located in rural communities where the population density is very low. Fixed costs in these areas are disproportionate to revenue. It is therefore not cost-effective for operators to deploy networks there. Since Wallonia is a region less densely populated than the others, it is logical that the coverage of the network is, for the moment, less good. Measures have already been taken and a number of initiatives are currently under way to address broadband connectivity problems, particularly with regard to reducing infrastructure costs. On July 7, the government approved a draft royal decree for cheaper microwave links. It was agreed with the Communities and the Regions that a cooperation agreement would be drawn up to integrate inter-federal aspects when transposing the European Directive on measures to reduce the cost of deploying broadband electronic communications networks. The 4G licence granted to Orange imposes on the operator a minimum rate of 3 megabits per second in the technology of its choice for at least 98% of the population of the sixty communes with insufficient coverage levels. The IBPT intends to monitor compliance with this licensing obligation. In addition, in the coming months, I will pay particular attention to the issue of white areas. With the help of the IBPT, I launched a pilot project involving thirty-nine Walloon municipalities. These are, broadly speaking, municipalities whose majority of inhabitants – at least 60% – do not have access to the Internet at a speed of at least 3 megabits per second and are not fully covered by 4G. I'll send you the list. For this to be manageable, however, the number of municipalities concerned must remain limited. In order to objectify this point, the above-mentioned parameters were used. On an exceptional basis, four municipalities – Braives, Bertrix, Rochefort and Philippeville – have been added due to the problematic situation of some of their subcommunal communities. On 19 October, I organised a meeting with the municipalities concerned. In general, we have addressed different possible approaches to finding a solution. I believe that a bottom-up approach, directly involving stakeholders, taking into account the specificities of each individual situation, would be better able to achieve a comprehensive solution. With this in mind, questionnaires were sent to the municipalities and their inhabitants in order to draw up a precise diagnosis of the problems observed in the various areas. Operators were invited to present their investment plans to the municipalities concerned. In the coming months, the situation in these territories will be examined in detail in order to develop solutions. I stress that the municipalities selected initially constitute a test project which can be extended later, or whose results can be applied to other municipalities. Let's add the following: to have a blanket, you have to place pylons, which is not obvious if you charge them. The Regions can take this decision themselves, but, of course, when the Walloon Region introduces a tower tax, it should not be surprised that putting a tower becomes less profitable for the operator, which diminishes his enthusiasm. I think there's a second problem. When we compare Flanders and Wallonia, we see that in Flanders there are almost two complete fixed networks, a copper network and a cable network which is completely bidirectional. In Wallonia, this is not at all the case; cable is still for an analog third party, and therefore not usable to provide internet. There is no alternative to a copper network. Where there is no alternative to a copper network, the incentive to invest is naturally lower. These networks are managed by private companies or by publicly traded companies. It is not my intention to intervene in their operations. However, I can see that in some places in Belgium there is not enough competition, for the time being, from an investment point of view. As far as Flanders is concerned, there is good coverage of broadband on landlines everywhere, so that there are no white areas. Mobile coverage leaves room for improvement in some places. Solutions developed in the pilot communities can then be used in Flanders to improve mobile coverage. In the border areas, there is currently a project between the Belgian and Luxembourg regulators aimed at better aligning the rules so that the border area can be better covered by mobile networks. This can then also be discussed with France, the Netherlands and Germany, in order to better cover the other border areas. With regard to consumer transparency, the IBPT has taken a series of initiatives on Internet speed. Internet providers are obliged to inform users about the volume and rate of downloads of a broadband connection before the conclusion of the contract. The IBPT extends its obligations to mobile Internet access products. In addition, the IBPT decision of 15 July 2015 obliges operators with at least 40,000 customers to publish, in the future, on their website, a tool to determine Internet access speeds for any address in Belgium. With regard to the online measurement instrument referred to, the IBPT closely monitors the work of the Body of European Regulators for Electronic Communications. BEREC is currently examining the feasibility of implementing a pan-European measurement system. Regardless of whether or not a priority regulation would be in line with the European legal framework, an invoice in proportion to the speed provided seems not to be appropriate. It should be stressed that speed is only a characteristic of an Internet access product. For example, the subscription also includes, for example, the provision of a certain volume of download.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u29	Mr President, Minister, I hear your answer very well. I had slid a third question along the lines of the second. It deals with the question of whether this broadband measurement tool would soon be set up, whether it would be operational in the coming months. You did not answer that question, I believe. Can you give me a date?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u30	No. I know that it is being developed, but I cannot give you a specific date for its implementation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u31	Mr President, Minister, I am both happy and unhappy. I am pleased that your very detailed answer proves that you are aware of the problem. I am somewhat unhappy because Tournai is not among the 39 communes, while Tournai is geographically speaking, in terms of area, the largest municipality in Belgium. It would therefore be interesting, in the future, in the event of a second round of pilot experiments, for Tournai to be recognised. Having said that, I do not think that the problem of the towers is specific to the territory of Tournaise.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u32	Minister, I would like to know, following your reply, which I have heard in its entirety, what is the next step. One can understand Tournai: it is still a very important city in Wallonia. On the other hand, there are small communes. You say pilot experiments are being conducted for small municipalities. But what do we do for the big ones too? What is the next step? Is there a plan for future initiatives, or is this plan closed until such a year and will it have to wait afterwards? Or is it the sole responsibility of the private sector? I understand you can't control the data I'm talking about now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u33	Sir, the project in the communes we have spoken about is a first initiative to examine what is feasible in areas where access is at times non-existent or very low. Indeed, we have focused on rural areas. We will try to see ourselves at a steady pace and examine how other sub-communals can be added. I think most of Tournai has good coverage, but there are some places, some villages, where this is not the case. The project is certainly not closed. I don't have a precise answer with dates, but we're ready to expand the experience.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u34	Mr President, the press has echoed the shortage of postal workers and the bpost initiative to hire refugees to address them. Some 60 posts are to be filled. As a result, bpost launched a recruitment procedure and a communication campaign with refugees. Along with this recruitment campaign, bpost is working on a plan to integrate these refugees. Minister, can you give me more details on this recruitment procedure? How many refugees did they respond? What are the positions to be filled? Can you also give us specific information on the plan for the integration of refugees set up by bpost? What are the partners and means used? Finally, can you give us details of the training as well as other measures that bpost intends to implement, in the short and medium term, to remedy the shortage of factors?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall first refer to my answer to Question No 13560 by Mr Calomne on the same subject. The engagement of refugees is indeed the subject of reflection with bposts. The project is in line with the company's philosophy, which gives everyone a chance: young people, long-term job seekers, under-qualified people. It therefore also turns to refugees who are currently entering the labour market. In addition, the recruitment of refugees may be an additional tool, complementary to other bpost initiatives, such as collaboration with the VDAB or local authorities, to better reach specific groups in the labour market, such as the long-term unemployed or people with low qualifications, to facilitate the engagement of employees. It should be noted that bpost has no intention of changing its recruitment process according to the type of recruit. The requirements in the proposed profiles remain unchanged at the skill level, such as the requirement to have a driver's licence or the knowledge of computer programs. On the other hand, it is true that bpost is considering adequate support to facilitate the integration of these workers into a new working environment far removed from what they have known so far. Rather, it is a good preparation, in collaboration with different actors in the field, for the profession of factor, relating to the operation and the corporate values. Candidates for the position follow the traditional selection process and, if recruited, they then complete the job placement route for any person who starts a factor career. In addition to the operational supervision provided for any factor starting at bpost, the company also plans to provide personalized support for six months. This enables refugees who work for the first time in Belgium to have a reference person in the company, who pays particular attention to their well-being and good interactions in their new professional sphere. The first refugees will be on duty soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u36	Minister, you did not answer the question as to how many people responded to this appeal and followed the procedure. I will ask you about this later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u37	Minister, recently, the League of Families and its Flemish counterpart Gezinsbond issued a report on digital illiteracy. The report shows that 40% of Belgian households are unable to complete their tax returns online, that one in five people cannot send or receive emails and that one in three Belgians cannot use word processing. In this regard, Minister, what measures do you intend to implement in the short and medium term to improve the control of the Belgian Internet?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u38	Several sources - for example, the Information Society Barometer, published annually by the SPF Economy - confirm that some of the citizens living in Belgium do not yet have access to the Internet due to a lack of digital skills. I am aware of this problem. My administration is working with the Digital Champion to develop these new skills. It is in this context that Digital Champion has set up a national alliance for digital skills and jobs in Belgium. This national alliance brings together the various actors involved from the different public authorities as well as the private sector. It includes a series of initiatives aimed at all citizens, regardless of their age and background, with the aim of improving their digital skills. This alliance has defined several specific actions dedicated to different moments of life. Among them, I pin an action on the digital inclusion of adults, in collaboration with Forem, VDAB and Agoria. The aim is for 70% of Belgians in the labour market to have the opportunity to receive training in the digital field. Not everyone has the means, the chance, the skills or the confidence to learn about the many possibilities offered by new digital technologies or to make full use of them. Through targeted measures, the initiators of this action want to bridge the digital divide by ensuring that no one is excluded. Particular attention is paid to certain target groups, such as seniors, the least well-off, or people with a foreign language. In this context, it is also important to ensure that the digital revolution benefits all and does not leave certain categories of the population at the margins. That is why I fully support the federal multi-year IDEALIC research project, which I launched on March 13, 2015. Its objective will be to analyse structural factors beyond the socio-economic characteristics that explain that individuals face a risk of digital exclusion. Indeed, the most recent studies on this issue show that the socio-economic characteristics of individuals are no longer sufficient to fully explain the digital divide. Other underlying factors contribute to the digital exclusion mechanics. At the end of their analysis, project experts will have to make recommendations to policy makers in order to establish a coherent policy framework for digital inclusion. Finally, I refer to the Third Federal Plan to Combat Poverty, which was approved on 20 July this year by the Council of Ministers, on the proposal of the Secretary of State for the Fight against Poverty, Elke Sleurs. This plan covers the period 2016-2019 and devotes a section to facilitate digital integration. As mentioned in the nineteenth action of the said Plan, in 2017 and 2018 I will consider new initiatives for public authorities with the help of the Communities and civil society, in order to facilitate and intensify e-inclusion, both in terms of accessibility and in terms of the use of information and communication technologies on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u39	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u40	Mr Minister, you have spoken on many occasions about the offer of bpost to buy back its Dutch PostNL counterpart, particularly at last Thursday's plenary session, which I unfortunately was unable to attend. But I have been informed by the press or on other occasions. I would like to go back to some of the elements on which you have not answered with sufficient precision in our eyes. What interests me today is to go into the details of the offer, which is still on the table, unless I am mistaken. In relation to the offer of bpost on PostNL, I would really like to have details on three elements, which are, for us, the most important in this dossier. Firstly, employment, of course. The first time the offer was announced, you welcomed the government, not only the offer you support, but also the creation of 3,000 jobs. As much as this seems to be an encouraging prospect, there has been no real detail as to how these jobs could potentially be created, generated. Could you give me some details? This is obviously important, especially since in the event of a merger, the opposite is the case: it is jobs that are at risk because we can imagine that there may be duplication between bpost and PostNL, that some services may disappear as a result of the merger. A Dutch study showed that there would be potential job losses. So I wanted to know not only what the impact of the offer would be on bpost employment today, and how you explain the creation of these 3,000 jobs. Finally, still in the field of employment, if the offer of bpost is accepted by PostNL, the shareholding of the Belgian State in the new set will fall to 40%, which obviously has consequences in terms of the status of bpost and the status of a large part or even of all workers. What measures would be taken directly by the government to ensure that the rights and guarantees associated with this status persist for those who now have a status within bpost? Would the procedure be the same as for BIAC, who became Brussels Airport? I would like details on this. Could we organise the same operation with the new set, without, for example, interfering with the rest of the shareholding, since, at that time, the Belgian State, in the new set, will have only 40%? The second point concerns public service tasks. These tasks that bpost is carrying out today are fundamental. They are defined in a management contract that we discussed last year in the House. What will be the future if the offer is accepted and there is a merger between PostNL and bpost? What will become of this management contract? Will it be necessary to renegotiate it, since it is a new set, with new shareholders? Or is it still as it is? I would like to hear from you on this issue and to obtain guarantees regarding the maintenance of the quality of the public service missions carried out today by bpost. Every day, we see in the press, the evolution of this issue. Since last Thursday, you have commented on it in plenary, there have been some changes, some statements on the Dutch side. Could you take stock of the situation today? What is the status of the file as we speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u41	Mr President, Mr Minister, there is a series of failed attempts to buy back the Dutch post, each time with the will, your obvious will and also that of the private shareholders of the Dutch post office, to force things to get this merger. These attempts have given rise to a lot of debate, and for the time being Dutch society and the government continue to refuse. Minister, on the very principle of privatization, what scenario have you put forward? In several scenarios, the Belgian State would retain the majority of the shares. Are you committed to privatizing bpost? In other words, do you give up, yes or no, keeping the majority of the shares? What is the Dutch post's response to this, since it is important to her? Is it true that the Dutch post office has not paid dividends since 2011 with regard to the requirements of the Dutch post office? How do you stand in front of this? If this merger scenario were to come to fruition, can you give assurances that the situation is not going to get worse as far as working conditions, the status, the remuneration of the staff of the post and public service missions are concerned? Finally, you also made somewhat contradictory statements. Once, you say that, even with 40%, the state retains a lever in relation to society. At other times, you say that anyway, the government has nothing to say in bpost. I would therefore like you to clarify a little what your real power is as a representative of the government in a company as a bpost.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u42	Mr Minister, on 17 November PostNL sent a letter calling for a merger to be considered. In the letter PostNL was invited to discuss the proposal for a combination. The Dutch Government expressed a public opinion on the acquisition, or rather against the acquisition. You had a meeting with your Dutch colleague on 16 November. You said: "[...] with a interest of 40% will not pass any decision on the board of directors which the Belgian State does not agree with." The Dutch minister Kamp states that this statement "(...) in the eyes of the board of directors and the supervisory board, the considerations they made supported" and that this led the government "(...) to the conclusion that it is in our view a step backwards from the process initiated in the Netherlands, whereby the Dutch State is replaced by the Belgian State." The Dutch House of Representatives adopted a motion from the Dutch Social Democratic PvdA asking the government, still in 2016, to amend the Postal Act by means of an emergency law in such a way that a transfer of important stock packages requires the consent of the Minister of Economic Affairs. The motion states that a foreign postal service provider cannot be forced to perform the universal postal service, because the Dutch postal law does not apply outside the Netherlands." Mr Minister, I would like to put the following questions to you. Was the vision of the largest shareholder of bpost regarding bpost? What is the industrial vision of that? What mandate were the members of the board of directors of the federal government? In what way should they check decisions with the Belgian State? How do you evaluate the motion on this matter in the Dutch House of Representatives? Did such an emergency law already come up for discussion with your Dutch colleague? How do you see the anchoring of bpost in the short and medium term ais minority shareholder?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u43	Mr President, let me first make it clear, as I said in plenary on Thursday, that management and the board are autonomous in the development of a future strategy. The development of bpost into a strong, forward-looking and international post operator is not a matter for politics or the government, it is a matter for the company itself. As you know, since the reform of the 1991 law, the government no longer has a government commissioner on the board of directors. As a shareholder, the government can only make its voice heard through the regular channels, as is the case for all shareholders. With regard to what was said about the 40%, which is exercised in the general meeting of shareholders, as is the case for each shareholder, and does not apply to the board of directors. That's what I'm putting together a number of facts. The bpost company announced on 6 November that it had submitted to PostNL an improved and friendly proposal for the combination of the two companies. The strategic added value and the industrial vision are the following. As a result of the friendly proposal, management and the Management Board have emphasised that it is part of the active growth strategy they set out first. They argue that it is not only good for the company but also good for employment and customer services. In his communication following that friendly proposal, Bpost stressed that it is convinced of the strategic added value of combining the two companies. A possible combination will become one of Europe's leading players in postal packages and logistics services with more than 28 million potential customers in the Netherlands and Belgium, making it the fourth largest player in Europe. Management and the Management Board argue that a possible combination will provide a stronger platform to respond to future challenges and opportunities in the sector, in particular in the area of parcel delivery and logistics services, while allowing companies to use their combined competences to take a leading role in the development of innovative services. The combination would enable Bpost and PostNL, firstly, to focus on long-term mail delivery in their home countries and to cope with declining postal volumes and maintain universal service for customers by promoting the importance and potential of postal services and increasing the efficiency and quality of service by sharing best practices and know-how; secondly, to stimulate growth in package delivery and logistics services in the Benelux countries and to reap the benefits of bundled forces by becoming one of the leading European players in package delivery and logistics services; thirdly, to exploit the benefits of technological scaling by innovation and introducing new innovative solutions to both senders and recipients by sharing technological knowledge and by sharing R&D investment. The driving force behind the combination is the common growth strategy. The activities of PostNL and bpost can greatly complement each other with a very limited overlap. The management and the board of directors of bpost indicate that the successful implementation of the common strategy could lead, in the medium term, to the creation of about 3,200 full-time jobs in the combined parcel and logistics sectors in the Netherlands and Belgium, these jobs being distributed more or less equally between the two countries. The combination would not only create new employment opportunities, but would also help to preserve existing jobs, including in the mail sector, by sharing best practices in messaging solutions. Together, PostNL and bpost would be better equipped to combat the decline in mail volumes and the threat it poses to jobs in the mail industry. B It stressed that, in the event of a merger between the two companies, the rights of the Bpost staff would be respected. Moreover, the law provides that the existing rights of statutory staff in the field of employment, allowances and pensions will be preserved. A possible combination would remain fully committed to the provision of affordable, accessible, reliable and innovative postal services and would be better placed to manage the maintenance of universal postal service and public service in Belgium and the Netherlands. The Belgian State has also taken the necessary steps in this regard, in particular through the sixth management contract entitled "Press Distribution Contract". bpost considers the combination as a fusion between equals. As a result of the transaction, the Belgian State's share in bpost would be reduced from 51 to about 40 % and bpost would become fully subject to private company law. What is our intention with shareholdership? I have said this on several occasions in this committee. Leaving majority shareholdership is not a dogma for me, but it is not a fetish either. We have discussed this on several occasions. I am not jumping to go below 50% per se, but it is also not absolutely unspeakable to me. In the case of a merger of two companies such as this, it is certainly possible in my view. The Belgian State, as shareholder of bpost, complies with the rules of corporate governance and therefore does not intervene in matters to be decided by the management and board of directors of the company. For PostNL's dividend policy, I can only refer you to the information that is public. PostNL has indeed not paid dividends since the summer of 2011. The company announced in spring 2016 to resume the payout of dividends as soon as possible. I therefore believe that the motion, adopted in the House of Representatives, is partly based on misunderstandings and Indian stories that are going around. As I said, this should not be a matter of politics. In the past few weeks and months they have tried several times from the Dutch side to make this a political matter. Several times there has been a demand to intervene in the company and to return to the management and board of directors. You understand that the Belgian government cannot just intervene with a listed company which also has a private shareholdership. The rules of corporate governance do not allow that. This dossier should be assessed as an industrial project and the strategic added value it offers. In this sense, the universal postal service may be better served by a larger player with a larger domestic market of 28 million inhabitants and better armed against falling mail volumes. On November 11, bpost received a first negative reaction from PostNL. On 17 November, bpost sent a letter to PostNL's Board of Directors and Supervisory Board in response to concerns and questions about the combination as expressed by PostNL in its letter of 11 November. bpost also forwarded to PostNL a draft merger agreement based on the project exchanged by the parties at the end of May 2016 and incorporating the proposal made by bpost on 6 November. bpost invited the Board of Directors, the Supervisory Board of PostNL to discuss its proposal for a combination of PostNL and bpost. In their response, PostNL's management and supervisory board refused the bpost's proposal to get around the table to discuss a combination of the two companies. bpost took note of this position and awaits the opinion of all of PostNL's stakeholders before reacting. I am not going to qualify the course of things from the Belgian Government, because I am going to conclude with this as I have also started what is also the scenario that is going on, it is and remains a matter for the companies concerned. It is important for the Belgian government that the company should fulfil its obligations, for example in the field of universal service, as we have established it, and that a company such as bpost, like all other companies, can continue to play a positive role in terms of employment and services to citizens and businesses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for this detailed answer. As much as I agree with you that this issue, this merger, this industrial project, as you call it, must not be influenced by political games, I think, however, that this is a fundamental public issue. It concerns the future of bpost, which remains, as you have pointed out, a company that is 51 % public and has a state shareholding. In view of its public service missions, it is normal that not only the representatives of the nation we are, but also the citizens, should be particularly concerned about its future. It is therefore important to discuss this matter, taking all the time necessary here in committee, in plenary and on other occasions, since the matter, I imagine, is not closed. You're talking about dogma. In our view, the dogmas are clear: they are about the quality of employment and public service tasks. That is what matters here, and that is why we are constantly returning to committee on these elements. I do not believe that we can sweep them away and say that this is an issue only between two companies. No, it's not. It is normal for the Belgian Parliament and the Dutch Parliament, which are apparently concerned, to have their say. I am well aware that PostNL is 100% private, but it is only natural that the political concerns and concerns raised by our citizens and the 25 000 people who are now working at bpost should not be ruled out. I will conclude by reiterating my request for a bpost management hearing in relation to this project. The latter deserves a long, detailed, precise discussion, with figures and tables. You don't have to have a priori. I don't have one, but I still have a lot of questions, and I think that's normal. We have to be able to answer that. I reiterate my request, Minister. You will decide, or the committee will decide, the timetable. At some point, it will be necessary to discuss with the bpost management this offer and how things will evolve. I think that this is fundamental and that we cannot sweep this discussion with a back of our hands.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u45	Minister, I must point out some contradictions in your answer. First contradiction: you tell us that the government's action is virtually null and void. To hear you, apart from the general meeting, we have no leverage. But when you defend the merger file, you say that even with 40%, we will keep an important lever. You'd have to know. Either it's one, or it's the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u46	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u47	I don't have the sources in front of me. We'll check it out, minister. The second contradiction is that you tell us on the one hand that this merger would be beneficial for employment. And on the other hand, you tell us that it will allow economies of scale.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u48	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u49	You just said it in your answer. Read your answer. I think it's a little contradictory. You also tell us that the rights of statutory staff will be maintained. The problem is that the share of statutory staff is decreasing and that there are more and more non-statutory staff, i.e. with precarious status. Finally, your commitment is rather incomplete. Finally, we know that we do not have the same views on public enterprises and privatisation. I think it's clear. But I'm still going to remind you of the difference between a public service company, a public service company, and a private company, which you want bpost to become entirely. That's the goal. The objective of a public service undertaking is to provide a proper public service to the public. The primary objective of a private company is to make profits. We can see that PostNL's private shareholders are already salivating. That's the difference, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. I agree with your position when you say that bpost is an autonomous listed company and that management can make decisions autonomously and in the interests of the company. What is at stake here is the anchoring of the company in a changing environment in a European context. It must be our ambition to anchor bpost in that climate in a good way and to generate a larger market for bpost. I simply do not understand your observation that this issue is being politicised in the Netherlands. I refer to your statement and hope that the talks can still produce something and bpost and PostNL can announce their engagement. If you say that a market of 28 million is important for the two companies, then of course conditions must be created so that this can be properly channeled and facilitated.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u51	Minister, the network of red bpost mailboxes consists of 13,000 boxes and bpost is currently working to modernize the security of this network. To do this, it was planned that 2,400 existing boxes would be equipped with a new electronic lock by the end of August 2016. Minister, can you confirm that the installation of the electronic locks is complete? Otherwise, when is this planned? Can you confirm to me that the existing mailboxes equipped with an electronic lock will not be replaced in favour of new type mailboxes? Is it planned to equip other mailboxes with an electronic lock in 2017? If so, how many?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u52	bpost informs us that the placement of electronic locks on red mailboxes has been slightly delayed. At the end of August, 2,150 boxes were equipped with an electronic lock. The number of 2,400 was reached by mid-October. In order to continue this programme in the coming months, a thousand electronic locks have been ordered recently. The two projects, on the one hand, the installation of electronic locks on existing boxes and, on the other hand, the introduction of a new type of mailbox equipped with an electronic lock as standard, are carried out in parallel. It is not excluded that recently equipped mailboxes with an electronic lock should be replaced in the near future by mailboxes of a new type.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u53	I thank the minister for the state of affairs that he has been able to do to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u54	Deputy Prime Minister, the cost of deploying new generation telecom networks is estimated at EUR 10 billion in Belgium. This cost is, of course, exorbitant and could slow down its installation. In order to reduce the overall cost of this deployment and to support the launch of ultra-high-speed telecom networks, the European Commission has set up the "High Flow" Directive, which is intended to allow the coordination of the construction sites of the various operators with those of gas, water and other suppliers. Unfortunately, Belgium has just been reminded of the lack of transposition of the text, which has already been adopted by the government. Can you explain why we are late in transposing this directive? The implementation of the text will involve the operators and suppliers mentioned above, but also the Regions. Can you tell us where the device is? What obligations are ours today? Can you finally tell us what will be put in place to solve this problem as quickly as possible (if not already done, of course)?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u55	Mr Foret, the transposition measures into Belgian law should have been adopted on 1 January 2016. Our country has therefore fallen behind. Moreover, to explain this, it must respond to a reasoned opinion from the European Commission received on 29 September. To this end, Belgium will request an extension of the deadline for replying to this opinion by March 2017, when all stakeholders should have been able to take the transposition measures. In the summer of 2014, the federal government took the initiative to consult with the federated entities and to propose a cooperation agreement to settle part of the transposition - i.e. to set up the National Institute for Dispute Resolution, provided for by the High Debit Directive. At the beginning of the summer, the Concertation Committee approved a draft cooperation agreement to this effect between the Federal State and the Regions and Communities. However, in so far as it is concerned with the coordination of construction sites and urban planning, the transposition of the directive in question is primarily concerned with the three regions. According to the information in our possession, their work is progressing. The federal government is also affected by some aspects of gas and electricity. The Council of Ministers will shortly approve two draft transposition laws for the energy sector, which remains partially federal, which will soon have to be tabled in the Federal Parliament. This is a new example of the fact that the complexity of our country sometimes puts us in a "met rode kaken" situation, which makes us blush at European level. The need for a cooperation agreement often makes matters very complex. I have already spoken about this in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u56	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. Coordination between the different levels of power is important and this example still shows the difficulty. We will have to overcome the difficulties and I am confident that the federal government will meet its obligations and that the Regions will be involved. Everyone must be able to look in the same direction because, as you have repeated repeatedly, it is important for our country's attractiveness to be able to meet these quality standards, especially at the level of broadband. All actors must therefore be made aware.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u57	Mr President, Minister, the digital transition is not saving bpost. This is an inevitable trend. As a result, mail mail is decreasing, resulting in job losses. For example, in five years, the number of mails distributed daily has decreased by almost 20 per cent, reaching 9.1 million letters. bpost has had no choice but to diversify its activities and, the good news, it is the development of e-commerce that compensates for the number of letters sent by an increase in the number of packages. Indeed, in 2015, bpost registered a 12.6% increase in distributed packages. What about the bpost fleet? The increase in the distribution of packages necessarily results in the systematic use of a car or van, while the distribution of mail can be done by bicycle and/or by moped. Will this decrease in the distribution of letters continue? Do you have any forecasts for the next few years? Diversification of bpost activities and different partnerships with other companies (Proximus, Planet Perfume, etc.) Will it intensify? Will it suffice to save bpost in the long term? It is true that e-commerce is really a very important issue. We need to adapt and bpost has a challenge to face.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u58	Dear colleague, the increase in the number of packages implies that bpost will have to carry more volumes, which does not mean that bpost will automatically inject more cars or vans into the distribution circuit. In addition to the company's constant concern to improve the efficiency of its organisation, developments have been taking place within bpost since 2014 in order to be able to transport higher volumes. This is mainly due to considerable efforts in relation to bicycles and mopeds. bpost focuses mainly on electric propulsion vehicles. In view of all these ambitions and challenges, bpost will introduce electric scooters with a higher load capacity in 2017. As far as small vans are concerned, we are currently testing some electric vehicles. bpost prepares for the technical transition at this level, but the process will take time. For large trucks and trucks, bpost analyses the possibility of using natural gas as fuel. bpost does not provide a long-term perspective for 2016. It expects the decline to continue at the same rate as last year, in the order of 5%. bpost continues to seek new opportunities, both as part of its existential activities and as part of its diversification strategy. In this way, it is able to compensate for the decline in the volume of traditional mail.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u59	Minister, thank you for these points of answer. It is clear that conversion and modernization are a key element for bpost. We have to tackle it and deal with this e-commerce which is also an opportunity for bpost. We must not undergo the changes. We must provoke them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u60	Mr President, I am expected in another committee, so I would like to turn my last question (No 14193) into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u61	All right.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u62	Mr President, Minister, since November 1st of this year, the "PHONEbanking" service of bpost bank no longer exists. This service allowed customers to operate via their landline telephone, 7 days a week, 24 hours a day, even from abroad. In short, a phone was enough. Officially, the shutdown of the PHONEbanking service is the result of a decision by the bank, a too low percentage of customers using the service. On its website, bpost bank offers two very different alternatives: "PC banking", usable via an internet connection and "Mobile banking", via smartphone or tablet. The call center is only open during office hours and on Saturdays. It is true that the management of financial operations by our citizens is changing, especially since the arrival of the smartphone. As a result, the mobile bank recorded more than a million registrations in 2015, which is an exceptional boom. However, this evolution towards "everything mobile" leaves on the side of the road many citizens who have not taken the step of digitisation. Thus, it is agreed that one in three Belgians still do not have a smartphone. Less than half of the 60-65-year-olds own one. Moreover, many Belgians do not have a tablet and almost 20% of the population does not have a computer. In addition, half of those over 55 do not use the Internet to manage their finances. Among those aged 55 and over, 25% do not know how to do it. For those over the age of 55, this proportion reaches almost half. Moreover, as we have seen in recent news, the trend in the banking sector is to remove more and more physical windows. Digitisation is therefore accompanied by the slow death of the counter and direct relations with the customer. In short, it turns out that the digitization of banks is faster than the digitization of people. The situation described thus mainly disadvantages elderly or disadvantaged persons who are not "connected", and or who are "connected", but not with regard to the management of their bank accounts. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. Why has the PHONEbanking service been removed? How many customers were still using it? What has been the evolution of the number of clients in recent years? What was the profile of the users of the "PHONEbanking", be it their age, their region, the socio-professional category? Does bpost bank provide another telephone service 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, free of charge? What services are put in place by bpost bank for people who prefer, by choice or obligation, the use of the telephone in the management of their finances? Finally, what guarantees are in place to ensure that customers who used the "PHONEbanking" maintain the same quality of service? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u63	Mr President, my colleague, the subject of your question concerns bpost bank, a 50/50 joint venture between bpost and BNP Paribas Fortis, and does not fall within my competence. However, for your information and subject to further comments from bpost bank, I asked bpost who owns 50% of bpost bank shares for information in order to answer your question. bpost bank has decided to stop its phone banking service, starting on November 1st. The technical platform supporting this service was already several years old and needed to be replaced. This would have required a substantial investment from the bank. Given the small number of active users, bpost bank has therefore taken the decision not to replace this platform and to invest instead in the channels of the future, namely PC and Mobile banking. Detailed information on the number of users and their profiles is covered by the company's confidential information. However, it can be said that at the time of the interruption, the service had only a limited number of active users, the vast majority of whom also used other channels in addition to the telephone banking. In addition, the number of users has declined significantly in recent years. In addition to PC and Mobile banking, the customer can also use the post office network where he/she can report to both the counter and the self banking terminal to perform his/her day-to-day banking operations. PC and Mobile banking make it possible to carry out banking transactions both in Belgium and abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u64	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. I take note of some of the information you have given me. Beyond the evolution – everyone is aware of the digital evolution of the banking sector – what mainly challenges us is the fact that systematically, a part of our fellow citizens – always the same – are excluded when we stop this kind of service a little more traditional, whether it be the telephone or the physical counters. It is always the older people, the people who live in more remote areas or the more disadvantaged people who are penalized. I understand that the number of users was limited, but, in our view, it is essential to support and provide for transition systems for this audience. And it seems to us that it is the role of bpost, even if it has only 50% of the shares, not to allow, overnight, a whole part of our fellow citizens to be excluded from a system, even if we are aware of the evolution of the banking system. We believe that bpost and bpost bank have a duty to provide something else and to put in place a system of transition to this fringe of the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u65	Mr Minister, on 10 October last the Belgian Institute for Postal Services and Telecommunications (IBPT) published a report where we learned that bpost was not distributing mail in time last year. bpost is required to respect a minimum rate of 95% of mail distributed on time, on average. The rate observed in 2015 was only 92.4%. We have not seen such a decline in efficiency in ten years. As a result, the IBPT asked bpost to invest €600,000 in a corrective action plan. bpost had until October 24 to realize it. What was the bpost response to this report and the decline in mail delivery? It is not really the decline, as such, that raises the question, but rather the fact that it has not taken place for so long. What steps has bpost taken to address this problem? Does bpost intend to hire additional staff to address this decline in its distribution rate? Is there a system within bpost to objectify working conditions and the satisfaction rate of factors and other bpost employees? If so, what are the most recent results? Indeed, at the union level, following this survey, it was stated that this situation reflects a serious crisis, caused by a lack of staff, inadequate working conditions and inadequate wage policy. More and more tasks are being requested from fewer and fewer staff. That's why I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u66	Dear colleague, bpost became aware of the IBPT's decision on quality control of mail and package distribution in 2015. As quality does not reach the expected level, the IBPT asks the company to invest €600,000 to improve the quality of distribution. bpost confirms that this investment will be made with the acquisition of machines to improve the processing of letters. bpost confirms that different actions have been undertaken, aimed at reducing stress among employees and increasing their motivation. In addition to the recruitment of additional staff to strengthen teams in e-mail centres, these actions include better support for local management and more efficient and transparent communication.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u67	That was really fast, Minister! All right, I'll take note. Soon, we will no longer have a minister, but a robot, who will send us the answers. Beware of scanning! This may concern you, too. I will come back to the most important factor – that is to say – in this question: the objectivation of quality and working conditions within bpost. I imagine that, like any big company, bpost has figures, coming from the internal investigation of its staff. I'll go back to that. That is one of the essential parameters in this question. I will come back for more objectivation on the quality of working conditions at bpost.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u68	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dedecker's 14869 was converted into a written question. Questions Nos 14873 and 14874 by Mr Friart have been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u69	Minister, we have heard that there are plans to outsource the ICT service of bpost. In the past, we have already discussed the Alpha Plan here, in the context of which it was admitted that a number of jobs would be examined in the context of a reorganisation, but would then opt for stability. 320 functions would be abolished and restructuring would be completed by the end of 2016. A number of people in the central services have now pointed out to me that I am concerned about the new plan for the ICT department. Its activities would be outsourced to India or other low-wage countries. Apparently, presentations have already been given about the implementation of these jobs. What's the progress on the implementation of the Alpha Plan? How many functions have been removed and how many layoffs has that led to? Has a path been set up for the employees involved to guide them to a new job? Are the claims correct that bpost wants to outsource almost the entire ICT service to India or other low-wage countries? What is the government's position on the company's plans? After all, I think that high-quality employment is being outsourced without seeing any immediate added value. How far have the plans progressed? Already work is being done on offshoring to accommodate peak moments. Are the activities being evaluated? Is bpost satisfied with this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u70	Mr Minister, the question I am asking is linked to that of my colleague Mr David Geerts. It concerns rumours about the relocation of the bpost computer service, which has been echoed recently in the press. There would be a relocation of the service to India, which would cover 80 per cent of the bpost computer service, or 200 jobs in Belgium. The company responded by mentioning that no decision had been taken, which I interpret as the communication that this project is clearly under consideration. Minister, can you confirm the bpost project to relocate its IT service to India and specify the number of jobs involved? What will become of the 200 employees potentially affected by this relocation? Will they be reoriented within bpost? What are the reasons for this project? Is it only the cost factor that has been taken into account? Since the average wage in India is 128 euros per month, one can imagine that the cost factor can potentially have a considerable impact. Are there any other outsourcing or outsourcing projects from bpost departments to very low-cost countries and social and environmental standards? More generally, from an ethical and political point of view, do you find it normal for a public company, which guarantees important public service tasks, to resort to such relocations to countries where social and environmental standards are very low or even non-existent?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u71	Mr President, today there are 202 internal staff in the ICT department of bpost. In addition, there are 221 external staff who offer their ICT services to bpost through more than 100 different suppliers. As part of a long-term ICT strategy, Bpost has decided to outsource the more operational ICT domains to a limited number of experienced market players. Those suppliers will therefore replace the external employees who carry out assignments for bpost today. Only the activities of the control room disappear completely. (...): (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u72	I thought you guys were so good at translating, it really wasn't a problem. [[Laughter.]] (...): (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u73	I'll start over. Today, Bpost 202's ICT department employs internal staff. In addition, there are 221 external staff who offer their ICT services to bpost through more than 100 different suppliers. As part of a long-term ICT strategy, Bpost has decided to outsource the more operational ICT domains to a limited number of experienced market players. Those suppliers will therefore replace the external employees who carry out assignments for bpost today. Only the activities of the control room disappear completely, resulting in seven internal employees losing their position. Two management positions are also deleted. There is no outsourcing of activities to low-wage countries. The Alpha project has been fully implemented. After screening and reorganisation of the central services of bpost, 321 posts were removed, resulting in 239 redundant staff. A comprehensive guidance process was developed, including a training on change processes, an analysis of the choices of the stakeholders, a competence analysis, a self-evaluation, a workshop on job application and an individual preparation for selection interviews.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u74	Thank you for your answer, Minister. What led me to ask this question was my fear that in our society there will be some kind of displeasure because there is a danger of relocation for jobs with a high employment rate. We have seen where that leads in recent election results in other countries. Hence my fear that when public undertakings or other companies continue such activities, people will feel even more detached than ever.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u75	Thank you, Minister. I confess that the answer is not entirely clear. Have I heard you confirm that the IT service will be discontinued and that there will be a loss of 200 jobs? [[No]] I understood that 200 jobs would be lost, but not outsourced to low-wage countries. But apparently, that's not what you said. So I will read your answer and come back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u76	That's not what I said.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u77	Your answer was very quick and since I do not always listen to the translation, I must have misunderstood. So I'll come back to this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u78	Mr. Minister, in April 2015, the Belgacom General Assembly agreed to change its name to Proximus. The Optima Group failed Belgacom in 2014 because the new logo of the Proximus brand would be too similar to that of the asset manager. Colleagues, I have it here. This is the logo of Optima and this is the new logo of Proximus. [[Mr Yüksel shows Optima's logo on his tablet]] The Optima Group went to court with that. Mr. Secretary, how much did the name change to Proximus cost? What is the status of the dispute over the logo with the Optima Group?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u79	I have taken note of your question, but I would like to stress at the same time that Proximus, as an autonomous public body, is free to decide its commercial and operational strategy itself, as well as the means and instruments to be used to implement this strategy. In view of the information that is commercially sensitive and given the competitive environment in which Proximus develops and offers its services, it is not possible to provide the information requested. What's the status? On 20 January 2015, the commercial court of Antwerp rejected Optima's appeal and decided that Proximus may continue to use its know-how. That judgment prompted both parties to put an end to their dispute.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u80	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. With regard to the cost of the change in the brand and its name, I assume that you do not agree with that answer either: it is business sensitive information and so on. I don't think it covers the cargo in this case. This isn't sensitive information. One can perfectly answer the question of how much that cost. In the end, we are also a public shareholder. I believe that Parliament is entitled to do so in this case. Not that it's such an important issue, but I still think you should let Proximus know. For business-sensitive information, I agree, but this kind of information must be shared with Parliament and with the general public.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-22-54-commissie-ic539x.u81	As far as the report is concerned, I would like to mention that the following questions are without object: Question No 149, by Mrs Poncelet, Question No 14930, by Mrs Poncelet Question No 144, by Mr Devin: Question No 15, by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu 15113 by Mr Hedebouw. In written questions, Questions Nos 13947 and 14869 by Mr Dedecker, Questions Nos 14737 and 14741 by Mrs Lalieux, Questions Nos 14193 and 14301 by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux and Question No 13, by Mrs Cassanmagnago Cerretti, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Questions Nos 14873 and 14874 by Mr Friart are postponed.
