ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic526x.u1	Colleagues, we will begin our work. The Secretary of State will present a third plan. The members of the committee will then be given the floor, first of all those who have tabled an oral question. A full report would be prepared, so there was no need to make a special document or appoint a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic526x.u2	Today I present to you the Third Federal Action Plan on Combating Poverty 2016-2019. As Secretary of State responsible for the fight against poverty, I am, of course, responsible for the delivery of that document, but I would nevertheless like to take the opportunity, in the first instance, to thank sincerely all those involved in the development of this plan, civil society, administration and the political world. We have done good work together and the result can be seen. With the action plan, I want and will take a substantial step forward in the fight against poverty. Colleagues, I, and the government with me, support the new federal plan to combat poverty, particularly because of the philosophy behind it, a philosophy which I can briefly summarise as: credible social. In other words, this is a policy of poverty based on concrete, structural and realistic actions, followed by tangible and sustainable results for those facing this distressing problem. Since October 2014, credible social policies have always been one of the government's absolute priorities, especially when it comes to combating poverty. Let us be honest, there was a need for a credible social policy. If we look at the EU-SILC, we find that between 2010 and 2014, the Belgian poverty figures were largely red. Allow me to give some examples. The poverty rate among 16-24 year olds increased by 5.6 % between 2010 and 2014. In 25- to 49-year-olds, it rose by 3 %. The risk of poverty rate among single men under 65 increased by 5.9 % between 2010 and 2014. The proportion of single women under the age of 65 increased by 10.5 %. For tenants, it increased by 5.2% between 2010 and 2014 and for the unemployed, for example, by 12.5 %. The poverty figures were red in 27 out of 40 EU-SILC defined categories. More and more people have fallen into poverty and those already below the poverty line have less and less prospects of ever getting out of it. In other words, it is time for a different approach. The government has decided to base its anti-poverty policy on three pillars: activation, raising social minima and combating abuse. Since October 2014, 64,700 jobs have been created in the private sector, in particular. All salaries were increased between 2014 and 2016. With regard to the lowest wages, this increase exceeded 80 net euros per month. The purchasing power of 2.6 million people has increased through the reassessment of allowances and the Well-being envelope. By the end of 2015, Belgium had more than 500,000 unemployed, the lowest figure in 24 years. The choice of the government's policy allowed for an increase in integration income of 6%, representing an annual gain of 400 euros for cohabitants, 600 euros for isolated persons and 800 euros for heads of household. The Wellness envelope was allocated at 100% during the 2015-16 period, an increase of 44% over the previous Parliament. The impact of this socially credible policy has been felt. The most recent figures indicate that the government is on the right track after barely a full year of Parliament. In the first year, poverty fell in 28 of the 40 identified categories. In 16 of them, poverty even fell to the level reached in 2010. The overall poverty rate has been reduced by 0.6 per cent, child poverty by 0.8 per cent and seniors by 0.9 per cent. Understand me well: I do not consider these first positive figures to be a reason to rejoice. We still have work to do, especially with regard to child poverty and poverty among single parents. On the other hand, these figures confirm that the government is on the right track. The latest speech by Professor Ive Marx of the Herman Deleeck Centre for Social Policy at the University of Antwerp, an undoubted specialist in social policy, reinforces this idea. It makes a clear case for managing the volume of social benefits by limiting where it is possible the flow to the status of beneficiary of social benefits and by stimulating where it is possible the flow out of that status. Indeed, we must continue to invest in reforms of the pension system or the labour market if we are to continue to see sustained positive developments in poverty. It is possible from what is being done in other countries. With the implementation of a 3rd Federal Plan of Action to Combat Poverty, the Government now wishes to confirm its intention to continue and strengthen its poverty policy. In the summer of 2016, the government took note of this new plan. The implementation of the Action Plan was identified as one of the 25 priorities of this federal government for the coming years. In this plan, which is more important than it might seem, the concept of poverty is, in the first instance, clearly defined. People are supposed to live in poverty when their income and resources are not sufficient to maintain a standard of living that the society in which they live is considered acceptable. Because of their poverty, they experience numerous disadvantages due to unemployment, low income, poor housing, inadequate health care and obstacles to lifelong learning, culture, sport and recreation. They are often excluded from taking part in activities such as economic, social, cultural or other activities which are part of the norm. Their access to fundamental rights may be limited. The action plan was drawn up in consultation with the various federal ministers and secretaries of state. Together, we have decided to focus on the following strategic objectives: to ensure the social protection of the population, to reduce child poverty, to strengthen access to work through social and professional activation, to combat homelessness and poor housing, to guarantee the right to health, to make public services more accessible to vulnerable people. The objectives are based on the National Reform Programme, the National Social Report and the previous federal anti-poverty plan. Each strategic objective shall consist of operational objectives and a total of 61 operations. As coordinating Secretary of State, I will actively and closely monitor the implementation of the 61 measures in the fight against poverty. I will be supported in this by the network of federal poverty officials that was expanded on my initiative. On the basis of the recommendations of the Court of Auditors, I will prepare a monitoring exercise leading to an interim report by the end of 2017 and a final report by the end of this legislature. As you will understand, the responsibility for the implementation of the various actions lies with the individual ministers involved and with the Secretary of State. I would therefore like to refer you, if you have any questions or comments on specific actions, to the specific ministers responsible. They're better placed than I am to give you a detailed answer today. For my part, I am responsible or involved in 17 actions. Let me explain them to you quickly. The fight against child poverty, as you will understand, is one of my priorities, especially since this area remains a painful element given the numbers. Action on child poverty is therefore a priority for me, starting with the submission of the new National Plan to Combat Child Poverty. It is therefore a national plan which, unlike the federal plan of action, is carried out by the federal government and the various governments of the states. On the basis of the administrative preparatory work carried out by an interim administrative working group on child poverty, the first draft of a second national plan to combat child poverty was launched, which also provides for a margin for intervention by actors on the ground. In the coming weeks and months, the federal and federal governments will consult and agree. I guess we can wait for a new National Plan to fight poverty in early 2017. In addition, I will continue to invest in child poverty for local "child poverty" platforms and for the Miriam project. Local "child poverty" platforms should encourage CPAS and associations to combat child poverty and promote the well-being of children in a proactive manner. By joining existing local dynamics and initiatives, the platforms for dialogue play a real leadership role in the fight against child poverty. These platforms organise consultation and collaboration with a wide range of local actors such as schools, day-care centres, associations of people affected by poverty and sports associations, in order to detect problematic situations, provide practical assistance and organize awareness campaigns where necessary. The aim is to combine offers in order to avoid duplication and to work together. Thus, the resources available will be the most effective. The Miriam project is a collaboration that I support with the Women's Council, the SPF Social Integration, and Karel de Grote Hogesschool, in terms of empowering isolated mothers who benefit from integration income. Through holistic and gender-conscious support, efforts are being made to increase the socio-professional integration of isolated mothers, to break the cycle of poverty and to push back their social isolation. One of the objectives of the project is to develop an approach that will eventually also be used in other CPAS. A method of measuring the impact of these policies is used to determine the results of intensive accompaniment of isolated mothers. The coordination of the project is based on the Women's Council. In five CPAS (Charleroi, Namur, Molenbeek-Saint-Jean, Leuven, Ghent) a management box accompanies about ten to fifteen mothers individually and in groups. It works on orientation, participation, information, strengthening of the network, but also on aspects such as self-confidence and self-image. Also important in the fight against child poverty is my work on improving the functioning of the Alimony Claims Service (DAVO) especially in view of the vulnerable group of single parent families. The single parent families are a particularly vulnerable group. It is often women who take care of their children alone. After a divorce, the caring parent is often granted a maintenance allowance for the children. However, in some cases it is not paid, as you all know. However, both parents owe their children sustenance. In this case, the Maintenance Claims Office may grant an advance or assist the caring parent who has a net income of less than EUR 1 800 in the collection of the maintenance money. The advance is then in principle recovered from the parent who has to pay the maintenance allowance. I was already working on a better profile of the DAVO. Indeed, many creditors but also the maintenance agents do not know how to operate. Under my impulse, the Royal Federation of the Belgian Notariat sent a letter to the notaries asking them to include the reference to the DAVO in writing in all notarial divorce documents. The majority of divorces are divorces with mutual consent. I also made progress on the digital accessibility of DAVO. Until now, an applicant had to move to an office or print the form on the website first and then send it by mail. We have now got rid of that. The application can now easily be made online via a web form. Digital access to DAVO will not only save time for the rightholder and the administration, but will also lower the threshold to ask for help. When the file is sent in digitally, people should not necessarily immediately tell their entire personal story to an outsider. Together with the Minister of Finance, I continue to work for an improvement in the services of the DAVO. The service will seek partnerships with other organisations involved in the issue of maintenance money. Information to the OMCWFs will be encouraged. This should reduce the risk of poverty after a break-up divorce. My second immediate priority is also obvious. We see and feel it all, the days are getting shorter and winter is coming. Traditionally, it is a particularly difficult time for homeless people. Homelessness and homelessness is a complex social problem. These are both people who are evicted from their homes and, for example, people who are no longer allowed into their homes by their partner. A common feature is that they usually do not have the financial means to pay for a new place of residence. To assist these people, the various governments signed the cooperation agreement on homelessness and homelessness in 2014. As part of this cooperation agreement in recent years, I have therefore planned my second responsibility for winter shelter for the homeless in the cities and especially in Brussels. For the five cities, Brussels, Antwerp, Liège, Charleroi and Ghent, the agreed federal grants, EUR 50 000 per city, were provided for. It goes without saying that the policy will continue this winter. The primary objective of the various governments in this area is clear: not to leave people in the freezing cold on the streets. This problem has a particular expression in Brussels: the number of homeless people is literally exploding. Five years ago, in winter, Brussels needed 600 places per 1,000 last winter. Since the severe reception problems experienced during the winter of 2010-11, the federal government has been structurally involved with a subsidy granted to the SAMU Social Service (SAMU) to provide additional accommodation. Of course, the federal government will continue to assume its responsibilities in the coming winter and will provide the necessary resources to implement this additional winter welcome. These resources are directed towards the reception and supervision of the homeless: psychosocial support, medical and paramedical support, lunch and hot meals in the evening, access to sanitary facilities, storage place for clothing. But in this problem, we cannot make the mistake of simply being temporarily welcomed in winter. We need to invest in more structural solutions for the homeless, hence my incentive policy of recent years around what is called the Housing First concept. The aim is, in an innovative way, the social integration of the most vulnerable homeless. Housing First reinforces the logic adopted so far: housing is the first step and access to it is not subject to conditions other than those which also apply to all other tenants. In order to ensure the preservation of his dwelling, the tenant is accompanied in all aspects of his life by a team. The tenants of Housing First are the long-term homeless who are weakened for several reasons. At least 50% of these people are affected by serious or chronic physical health problems or are diagnosed with a psychiatric condition, at least 50% are dependent on drugs or alcohol, at least 30% have been diagnosed with a dual diagnosis of mental health and addiction. The existing experiences of Housing First in the cities of Antwerp, Ghent, Brussels, Charleroi, Liège, Hasselt, Namur and Molenbeek-Saint-Jean have been evaluated and will normally be transferred to the Regions and Communities in 2017. The results are very positive. Thanks to Housing First, homeless people with in-depth needs can move directly from the street to their own housing. They stay in the house: after two years, 90% have not returned to the street. They're building a home in this house. This process takes a year but they feel better at home, in their homes, than people who have not received the help of the Housing First teams. They're paying their rent. Only 20% do not meet their payment obligation, but the team or mediator usually manage to solve this problem. There is no pattern of success or failure for specific profiles. No one can therefore be excluded from the Housing First proceedings from the outset. Everyone has to have a chance. The Federal Government will continue to play a supportive role through Housing First Lab, which will carry out, in collaboration with the Regions and the Communities, the following tasks: the Housing First Centre of Expertise in Belgium, the development of the Housing First methodology, the stimulation of social innovation around Housing First and knowledge management. The network of federal poverty officials plays a crucial role in the new federal action plan on poverty reduction, not only in the area of monitoring implementation under my responsibility, but also in the area of automation of social rights. The mission of the members of the network is to support the federal government institution in which they are employed in implementing the measures set out in the federal poverty reduction plans related to their policy area, to coordinate the poverty reduction policy in the federal government institution in which they are employed, inter alia by participating in the meetings of the network, to inform the network about the elaboration of the federal poverty reduction plans in the federal government institution in which they are employed, to raise awareness of the federal government institution in which they are employed on poverty reduction policies in general and to contribute to the development of a common vision of poverty policy. The network launched six proposals on the automation of social rights, which can be optimised. Firstly, it is proposed to develop a buffer database in order to make the data of certain statutes available to the bodies which base themselves on them to grant derived social rights. Secondly, we want to use acute income data as a basis for deciding on the granting of a right or benefit. Thirdly, consideration should be given to installing a proactive data stream to detect potential rightholders on the increased concession. Fourthly, a procedure is proposed to identify potential holders of the 105 free service cheques for maternity assistance. Fifthly, to optimise the various application procedures in DG People with Disabilities. Sixthly, it is argued for the development of an app by the POD Social Integration, in consultation with the Crossroads Bank of Social Security, and the project is called the PIN code attached to the eIDS, which gives the creditor a clear view of the derived rights granted. I have therefore instructed the network to draw up these proposals and to explore other possibilities for the automation of social rights. Finally, I will continue to ensure that experience experts are involved as widely as possible with federal public services. Experience experts act as intermediaries between citizens living in poverty and social exclusion, and public services. They incorporate the views of people in poverty into public services and indicate obstacles that prevent some of the potential beneficiaries from having access to their basic rights. The missions that the experienced expert is: - to contribute to improving the reception and information of the public, in particular the public who have to cope with poverty; - support users in administrative procedures; - to identify the needs of people living in poverty through interviews, surveys and contacts with social organizations; - to improve the overall quality and access of the service by making proposals to improve the communication of procedures and measures; - to participate in the development of collaborative links between services so that expertise and subject matter also transcend the different services; in this way, the objective of the cross-cutting fight against poverty is also reinforced; - report to the leaders on structural problems, shortcomings in legislation, unseen and untreated needs of people affected by poverty. Experience experts are trained. They are supported by a mentor from their secondment department and by a SPF Social Integration coaching and coordination team. Together with my colleagues, I am fighting to further improve collaboration with poverty experts in federal public services from 2016 onwards. In addition, as part of the current work of the experts, I organize working groups in which they can work in a flexible manner to exchange information, expertise and successful practical cases. Ladies and gentlemen, this policy represents a lot of work; not only for me, but also for my colleagues, the federal administrations, the anti-poverty services, the Belgian anti-poverty network and the Belgian platforms against poverty and social exclusion EU 2020, the CPAS, the National High Council for People with Disabilities, etc. There's a lot of work, but it's important work. I, and the government with me, want to offer perspective to all citizens, including those who face poverty. I refuse to accept that poverty is a terminal, a fate that cannot be escaped. I consciously choose to believe in people with poverty problems and firmly believe that the vast majority of those people have the necessary talents and skills to take their lives into their own hands and build up beyond the poverty line, provided that they have an adapted push. Thank you for your attention and look forward to your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic526x.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. None of the members who have tabled oral questions are present at this time. I will therefore give the word to those among us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic526x.u4	Madam Secretary of State, as you yourself have just said, the poverty barometer is turning red. Unfortunately, we can see that the temperature is rising further. You said it yourself: poverty has increased further in recent years. That is also apparent from the figures. In our country, 1.7 million Belgians live in poverty. In Flanders there are 700 000. In Flanders, the percentage is 11%, in the whole country 15%. What's also terrible is that child poverty is increasing. Meanwhile, one in five children live in poverty. When we look at particular target groups, we find that sometimes half of those people live in poverty. Certain target groups are even more affected. When we talk about 15%, we run the risk that some will put that figure into perspective. But unemployed or single people, and especially single women with a family burden, are even more likely to find themselves in poverty. Yeah, that's a good point. Today was in the newspaper, I believe in De Morgen, an article about people of ethnic origin. It turns out that even in Flanders 41% of those people end up in poverty, while in Flanders the average is 11%. The same applies to single people with child burden. There the percentage also fluctuates around 39 %. Those numbers are incredibly high. So it is high time for action. We know that the EU indicators describing poverty cover three aspects: income, material deprivation, and work or work intensity. Those three domains are also covered in your third federal plan. Of course, there are other things in that too. As far as income is concerned, Europe says, we can talk about poverty when income is lower than the European poverty line. For our country it is 1 085 euros for a single person and 1 682 euros for someone with a family burden. However, it is important to know that a family with two children has to live on a living wage of EUR 1 157 and that an unemployed person in the third stage has to live on a benefit that is not much higher, some tens of euros. The same applies to someone with an income replacement. Then we know that the gap is very large and that some people are still seriously below the European poverty threshold. Besides income, it is also important to see to what extent people can participate in society, because it is not just about money. It is also about whether one can participate in society in the areas of sport, culture and leisure. Also there we see staggering figures: more than a quarter of the Belgians cannot afford to take a week's holiday once a year. More than a quarter cannot absorb unexpected expenditure, either in the area of health care or whatever. The third federal poverty plan highlights a large number of actions in different policy areas. Such a comprehensive approach is also needed effectively, because we all know that there is no single miracle solution. I also mentioned this in my resolution, which was adopted in May last year. We must work in all areas of society, in terms of income, employment, housing, energy, you name it. A broad approach is needed. If I go back to my resolution which was adopted and which you supported, then I now see that a number of things have been included, which I welcome. However, there are also a number of things that have not been included, which I regret, because they are also important. The majority and part of the opposition supported this. Do you really want to include the aspects that are not yet in your plan in your forthcoming policy plans? Soon we expect your policy plan for next year. I hope this doesn't mean you don't want to do anything about it. In the end, it is a commitment that we have requested from the government. The majority were behind it. This has been approved in Parliament and we expect the government to do something about it. It can't be a piece of paper. I'm going over a couple of cases. Firstly, I have a question about the Inter-Ministerial Conference. As has been said, poverty needs to be addressed in different policy areas. This requires, of course, cooperation between the various federal ministers, but also with the ministers of the region. A cooperation agreement was already concluded in 1998 to ensure this coordination and to ensure that ministers cooperate. It's hard enough as it is. If there is no cooperation, there will be no results. However, I note that the Inter-Ministerial Conference, which should normally meet at least once a year, has not met since 2013. That alarms me. I wonder why the Inter-Ministerial Conference has not come together anymore and when do you intend to convene them again? Of course, there must also be cooperation with the sector, with the people in the field in the fight against poverty. In their reports, including the report of the Belgian Anti-Poverty Network, field workers testify that the consultation is not generally ensured. So it is not clear to them who was consulted for the realization of your plan. I wonder which actors in the field are or are not involved in your plan. How will you deal with this in the future, for example for your own policy plan, which you still have to submit? I hope that the sector will have a say in this, which is essential. The people of the sector have had many years of experience. Allow me to say that they have been doing this work for longer than the competent ministers, who often only retain one or two legislative hours, while employees of the organisations concerned have been working on it for up to 20 years. It is important that we do not lose that expertise and that these people are involved. In short, how will you do that? Why has the Inter-Ministerial Conference not come together since 2013? How will you reactivate it and how do you see your coordinating role in it? In addition to coordination, raising benefits above the poverty line is an important issue. That decision has been included in the coalition agreement and we have made it explicit in the resolution. I have just mentioned that some benefits, such as living wages and unemployment benefits, are well below the poverty line. I myself have tabled a number of legislative proposals to raise these benefits and I hope that these legislative proposals will soon be discussed in committee. How will you close the gap in benefits? Do you have a step-by-step plan to raise the benefits? There is of course the wealth envelope, but whether it is used for 60%, as under the Di Rupo government, or 100 % as in previous years, or 75 %, the envelope is not enough to completely close the gap. How much is the budget to bridge the gap and thus increase benefits beyond the poverty line? Where will you set the priorities? What about the resources? What strategy do you see for the coming years to ensure the necessary resources? As far as income is concerned, I would like to make a few more points, which I have included in the resolution. We had asked to investigate whether the living wage was sufficiently adapted to the current forms of society and care. After all, we often see beneficiaries being punished when they move in together, for example, because their benefits are suddenly reduced. However, it can be seen as a form of solidarity if one takes care of someone. There is a problem if you are punished through the benefit. That is why it was included in the resolution that it was necessary to examine whether the living wage was sufficiently adapted to the current forms of society, in which individuals sometimes do not live together as couples but simply as friends to save costs. Why isn't that in your plan? Are you prepared to take further steps in this regard? In the resolution we also advocated fair, simple and transparent taxation. Our demand for fair taxation was also raised in the budget negotiations. I hope that in the coming weeks and months the government will be able to clarify this point. Another concrete point in the resolution is to examine whether bankruptcy insurance can be extended to all forced cessations, including for economic reasons. That measure is not included in your plan either. I also advocated the automatic allocation of rights in the resolution. After all, we see that the most vulnerable often do not take up their social rights. They do not know that they are entitled to some kind of compensation or that the administrative mill is too complicated. I refer to a study carried out by Professor Bouckaert of the KUL, who says that between 57 and 76 percent of pensioners do not take up their living wage. This is also reflected in the report of the Network against Poverty. That's a lot. It would be interesting to investigate that phenomenon further. After all, that is a very large group that you seem not to include in your plan and for which data are still lacking. In your plan, however, you indicate that there is a network of poverty officials who have been instructed to examine what rights can still be automated. That work should normally be completed by the end of 2016. It is now November 2016, so I assume there is already a view on the social rights and rates that are not yet automatically paid. Can you tell me which ones are and above all what will be made a priority? The same applies to persons with disabilities, for whom you are competent. There is a project MyHandicap, which aims to ensure that people with disabilities incorporate all their rights. How's that going? That's Action 14. I'd like some information on that. You also announce that a buffer database would be set up to cross all the data. How's that going? Is that buffer database already in place and when will it become operational? I will not go over all the points, but I would like to make a number of points. An important point concerns the accumulation of benefits and the reintegration into work. When I listen to disabled people and chronically ill people, I hear that moving to work is a major risk. If they have a relapse or are unable to cope with the work, they cannot fall back on the benefit they had before. That is therefore an unemployment trap. Often some do not dare to take the step to work because they are afraid that if they cannot cope with it and cannot start working full-time or half-time, they will not be able to fall back on their benefit. A working group has been set up to investigate this further. This is a problem which we have known for many years and which is not new. Why does a working group need to be set up now? I hope, in particular, that you will be able to tell me when we will hear the results of that working party, what that will lead to and whether we will be able to solve this problem effectively. We also see that people who receive a living wage can often also receive other interventions from the OCMW, such as a rent premium or certain interventions in health costs. However, if they start working, they will suddenly no longer receive all these benefits even if they receive a low wage. So there again we have a fall in unemployment. One could solve this by letting these extra fertilizers go through for a while. What's your vision on that? In the resolution I mention another point which is not included in your plan either. Mobility can also be a problem. Some people cannot work because the cost of mobility or distance is a problem. Are you prepared to do something about that? Another important point is having an address or a reference address. You know that if you want to receive social security benefits or pensions in our country, you are dependent on an official main residence. There are people who don't have an official address for many reasons. They are written out administratively, for whatever reason. They could be homeless, for example. As a result, they end up in a vicious circle and cannot knock on the door for example an OCMW for a living wage. That's poignant. In consultation with the sector, you have said that you want to tackle this problem. Of course, I think that is a good thing. You will draw up a circular, together with the relevant Ministers for the Interior and Social Integration, to enable better regulation of registration in the population registers. If a homeless person doesn't have his own place of residence, but does have a reference address with someone, it should be possible for the homeless person there to receive his allowance. Now there are a lot of people who are afraid to register with them because then the tax authority comes along or reduces the benefit that this person receives himself. The homeless also runs the risk of losing their benefit as a single person because he is considered a cohabitant. So there are many problems that need to be resolved. How is this problem going to be solved? What exactly does the circular, which is on its way, mean? I am sure you already know how to deal with this problem. When can we expect that letter of dispatch? One last aspect I want to touch is child poverty. Child poverty is a poignant problem that is spreading. You want to draw up a national child poverty plan by the end of this year, together with the Länder. That won't be long. It should be almost there. What's the status? Who is still involved in the sector, besides the Länder? I do not read anywhere that you would take into account the Senate's report on this matter. It may be that you do. Can you assure me that? A number of points in the resolution are not included in the plan. I won't list them all here. Your cabinet can see that for itself. I'll come back to it later. I'll come to my decision. With increasing poverty, as you said in your introduction, it is important that we pursue an effective and vigorous policy. Sometimes it is necessary to examine a number of issues further and to provide a good basis, Madam Secretary of State, but I note that this has been done for years and years. This isn't the first federal poverty plan, it's the third. A great deal of research has already been done and working groups have been set up. I now read again in your note that you will examine, set up and evaluate working groups. I'm not saying you can't do that. If it's really necessary, it has to be done. What is lacking, above all, are concrete actions. We must, above all, take concrete action. After all, poverty is increasing. Madam Secretary of State, what are your priority actions, in addition to the investigations and the working groups? In what cases do you really want to make a difference? What concrete actions do you intend to take to ensure that poverty is actually reduced? That's important. It is also heard from the sector that there is no lack of good intentions. There are many good intentions in this report as well. I do not want to throw it overboard, but we really have to go for a number of points. We must commit ourselves, the government together with all the ministers responsible, to achieve this, so that next time we do not see that poverty has increased.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic526x.u5	Madam Secretary of State, the poverty rate in Belgium was between 14.2% and 16.8% of the population for 2015. According to reports published in the press, nearly 40 per cent of workers report living in poverty or fear of falling into poverty. The measures taken and planned by your Government are of course not alien to it. A dismissal, divorce or health problem can cause families to fall into precarious conditions. Sometimes, to eat, to survive, more and more women, young or older, turn into prostitution. These are occasional food prostitution, which involves women who are forced to sell their bodies in order to close the end of the month. This reality, increasingly present in Brussels, Liège or Charleroi, according to the police, is rarely chosen and often precarious. It places these women in a marginal situation of exclusion and insecurity, from which it is difficult to get out. Madam Secretary of State, can you give us more precise figures on the number of women using what we call food prostitution? Have any studies been carried out on this issue in our country? Are these women subject to specific supervision? Are specific measures envisaged for them? Madam President, I would like to apologize; I will not be able to stay until the end to listen to the answers of the Secretary of State because I am participating in another committee, but I will not fail to read the report and to come back with other questions, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic526x.u6	This is obviously the complication of this exercise of the questions attached to the discussions. We will proceed in the same way with Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, who will not stay to listen to the answer. Yes? This response will come at the end of all our exchanges.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic526x.u7	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, my question concerns the problem of poverty after a break-up or divorce. In your reply to my written question on this subject, you pointed out that break-ups not only create emotional tensions, but also financial tensions. You also pointed out in that reply that a difficult financial situation directly or indirectly affects children born out of a relationship, and that it is therefore extremely important to make clear and concrete agreements on maintenance costs and extraordinary costs from the outset. I would like to add that not only agreements must be made, but they must also be kept. You also replied that you are currently waiting for the results of an evaluation study on how alimony could be calculated in an objective way. According to your answer, an important point of improvement is, for example, the problem of extraordinary costs. The Flemish poverty figures of the 2014 measurement year, published in early October, are appalling: 11.1% of the Flemish people live in poverty and one in eight children are born into poverty. Those are shocking numbers. Those figures are only about Flanders. Do you also have figures for Wallonia and Brussels? If so, can you tell me? Madam Secretary of State, I personally am convinced that the increase in the number of break-ups and the possibly difficult financial situation afterwards also plays a major role in the poor poverty rates. This is also literally stated in the report on poverty: "If we examine the poverty figures more closely, there are two significant changes. The risk-of-poverty rates among single-parent families are making a big leap. As many as 33% of single-parent families, 10% more than 2013, live below the risk of poverty." I have the following questions. Firstly, do you follow me in saying that the increase in poverty rates, at least in part, can be linked to the difficult financial situation of people after a break-up or single-parent families? Secondly, what initiatives have you already taken and how are you working to combat poverty after a break-up at national level? Thirdly, a common point of improvement is, in your opinion too, the approach to extraordinary costs. However, this subject does not fall within your competence. Have you been in contact with, or will you contact, your colleague, the Minister of Justice? What are your workpoints?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic526x.u8	Madam Secretary of State, this is finally – I want to say – the third federal plan to combat poverty! It is true that a resolution had been adopted at the beginning of the legislature before another resolution, on the evaluation to be produced by the Court of Auditors, was also adopted. Unfortunately, there is not much time left before us, although some measures are mentioned in your plan. I would point out that they have already been approved by Parliament before you adopt them in the Council of Ministers. So they are already taken and, in my view, if they are included in your text, it is probably in order to beautify it. So the decor is planted. I share several considerations with you about how to measure poverty. Based on the European survey conducted in 2014, if we take the three indicators mentioned in the introduction of your plan - monetary poverty, material deprivation and intensity at work - it appears that the rate, which is particularly worrying, of people living in poverty or exposed to this risk amounts to 21.2% of the Belgian population. In percentage, we do not perceive reality very well, but when we think in absolute numbers, we reach about 2.4 million people – still according to the above criteria. Mrs Lanjri spoke extensively about the motion for a resolution in the House. I can understand that we can be frustrated by the vote in Parliament on a resolution, without all the elements being retained by the government. This is obviously not a disavowal of the resolution voted on. And it can be understood that the government does not take into account all the demands that are made in a resolution even from the majority. On the other hand, another element seems important to me. I am referring to the evaluation by the Court of Auditors, as has been done before, and then to the second plan which was desired by Parliament and which, as far as I am concerned, seemed fundamental to me. Like Mrs Lanjri, I suffer from some frustration. The Court of Auditors sent its report on 13 July. Your plan was approved by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2016. This is a bit special! Does that imply that you have not taken the report of the Court of Auditors into account at all? Or have you been aware of the conclusions of this report before? It would be desirable for you to provide a reply to Parliament on this matter. It would also have the merit of informing the Court of Auditors that, if it did a job at the request of Parliament, it was not for nothing. Some interesting points can be removed from the Court of Auditors' evaluation under the Second Federal Plan to Combat Poverty. Indeed, the Court of Auditors has been mandated to review the quality, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the Poverty Reduction Plan 2012-2014 and to submit recommendations to you. We know that this institution provided you with assessments, but also recommendations through a report adopted on 13 July and that the Federal Plan to Combat Poverty was approved by the Council of Ministers on 20 July. In doing so, I feel that your plan does not take much account of the above recommendations, unless you prove the opposite to me on the basis of clear evidence. Let me take a few examples! It is known that 2,400,000 people are now at risk of poverty. Your goal is to reduce this figure by 380,000 by 2020 to 1,900 000 or 2,000,000 people. The Court of Auditors says that you will not achieve this objective. The observation is important. I understand that, as part of all the measures, you specify how you intend to do this, but we have no budget, no cost estimates, no timetable. What the Court of Auditors says is that if the plans are to be an instrument of public policy, the criticism it made on the second level, which is a simple list of actions, is also valid here. The Court of Auditors said that the objectives and actions are not accompanied by quantified targets, deadlines and budget estimates. Here, we have exactly the same thing. The recommendations of the Court of Auditors were not to meet the objective and to be able to make evaluations. Obviously, this plan does not meet them. That's very unfortunate! Another element: in the context of this report of the Court of Auditors, for example, a semi-annual report was to be made to the Council of Ministers – in addition to strengthening the network of civil servants in the fight against poverty. Progress reports were submitted to the Council of Ministers in March and September 2013, in April 2014. The Court of Auditors says that the six-monthly periodicity is foreseen; it is important to verify the actions carried out, those which are in progress, those which are pending or those which are completely abandoned. It is a plan and it is therefore clear that at some point we can say that we must review it and abandon actions. It is not a reproach that can be made, even if, within the framework of the policy implemented, this may have an influence at some point. However, the last report based on this second plan was issued in April 2014. Unfortunately, as a result of the elections, there were no more elections. However, the report notes, for example, that 71 per cent of the actions were carried out, 24 per cent were under implementation, four were pending and two had been abandoned. I think this is quite relevant, but, in relation to your vision of things, that is to say monitoring, you indicate that, for this report to be possible, follow-up is carried out which includes at least, by policy measure, the following information: timing, the different phases of the implementation of the measure, the indicators that are used to monitor the result of the measure and the contribution to the achievement of the objective, the budget, the staff, the evaluation provided. Yeah, except, action by action, we don't have it. In addition, your first interim report would be by the end of 2017. However, the Court of Auditors says that it is good to do so every six months. In the previous report, that was indeed every six months. This means that there will be a year without an interim report of evaluations that can be made. But you are also putting Parliament, in view of its monitoring mission, in a relatively difficult situation with regard to implementation. As far as your third plan is concerned, I am going beyond the report of the Court of Auditors. I can only repeat that; it is unfortunate that recommendations have not been taken into account. I repeat, certain recommendations are not, in my opinion, applicable. In particular, I take the example – there are others – of an individual evaluation of each of the actions. This is probably not applicable because it may have a very high cost. I think we should have taken that into account. The first criticism, generally speaking, is that no measurable poverty reduction goals are announced. You take all your measurements. I see actions but no measurable goal of poverty reduction. I believe that, as part of a plan, it would have been important, not to make a criticism. It's just to know what the impact is. Are there sufficient budgetary or human resources? Has coordination been sufficient? You talk a lot about collaboration with federated entities. This seems logical since large parts of politics have been the subject of regionalisation and communitarisation. Have the consultations been sufficiently put in place, etc.- Is that what you're saying? Unfortunately, I do not have these measurable objectives. There are also no SMART objectives (specific, measurable, adequate, realistic and temporally defined). There is no specific budget. There is no cost estimate and no schedule has been established. It's particularly boring. Generally speaking, your willingness to put forward the Gender mainstreaming plan, to integrate gender into the poverty reduction plan, is interesting and important. I am in opposition and, unfortunately, I cannot share your view of the situation. You say that measures have been taken by the government and that they benefit women in particular, but this is the opposite situation which occurs, for example, in access to early pension, the postponement of the statutory pension age to 67 years. Most often, almost all the time, it is women who work in sectors where part-time work is required. It is women who stop working for a few years to raise their children. It is they who will be hardest hit by these measures. In the public sector, we are dealing with the calculation of pensions. A study has just come out and explains that in the area of pensions, the risk of poverty that existed on pensioners has decreased somewhat. We went from over 20% to 15%. But you have to read everything in the study. Depending on the measures that have been taken by the government, this will increase again. We had managed to reduce the risk of poverty or, in any case, exposure to poverty, but it is women in the public sector who will be affected by the change in the calculation of pensions. When the stay in maternity is diminished and we do not put in place a postnatal accompaniment, which is affected? It's the women! When we cut the income guarantee allowance (AGR) by half, who is affected? They are women, who involuntarily work part-time, who could benefit from a supplement to meet their needs and those of their families. They are women who are affected! It is currently 40,000 women who benefit from the AGR supplement. In relation to these elements, I appreciate your desire, your intention, your willingness to put forward this plan, to integrate the gender dimension into the plan to combat poverty. On the other hand, I cannot share your observation that the government is taking measures that benefit women in particular. It's pretty much the opposite. I will recall the elements and the objectives, without dwelling on all the measures. It is true that since July we could have taken more time. We resumed our work in Parliament on 1 September and we could have foreseen, since it had been adopted by the government on 20 July, to start further discussions with you on the plan in September. That has not been the case, and I regret it for Parliament. You told us about social protection and the measures that are being taken. It is true that the previous government has taken measures concerning the inclusion allowances for young people, but I would like to remind you that you have tightened them. It is not by excluding young people that you will be able to reduce poverty. Today, La Nouvelle Gazette, a local newspaper in Charleroi, published an article by a street worker, Denis Uvier, a great friend of Paul Trigalet who set up an ASBL, New Solidarity, which deals with social work in the context of the fight against poverty, insecurity and support for the homeless. This ASBL is a very important player in the Walloon Network against Poverty. This article states that, as a street worker, with the winter plan which has just begun on 1 November, he sees a significant presence in the street of young people under 25 years of age, who, unfortunately, following the amendment of the legislation on integration allowances, find themselves without access to any income whatsoever, and in particular to income from social integration. Moreover, even if they still live with their families, they find themselves on the street. You have told us a lot about the tax shift, arguing that this is a concrete measure and that the citizen can check its positive effects. It is true that a worker who receives the minimum wage will earn 69 euros more per month. It's true, it must be recognized. On the other hand, the others will lose. Someone who earns 1,910 euros in net pay, which is not huge, will lose 106 euros a year. Anyone who has a minimum pension – because pensioners, as I said before, do not benefit from the tax shift – will lose 438 euros a year. And whoever has a net pension of 1,320 euros, which is not huge either, will lose 715 euros a year. You say that it is a means of combating poverty, but it is only for those who benefit from the minimum wage, not for others, unfortunately. And yet, those people who do not earn much will be affected by the risk of poverty. You're talking about raising the minimum income. Unfortunately, I believe that a small correction will have to be made on page 9. You are announcing that the government is committed to allocating 100% of the wellness envelopes. Unfortunately, the budget went through that. If I have heard the Prime Minister's statement correctly, that will not be the case. That'll be 75 percent. I would like it to be 100%, but I believe, unfortunately for you, that this will not be possible, since it will be just 75% of the envelope. And if we take into account all the other savings made elsewhere, the envelope will be allocated to 57%. You'll excuse me, Madam Secretary of State, maybe it's not your fault. You introduced him on July 20th. Unfortunately, budgetary control and the budget have gone through this. But your assertion is not correct and is contradicted by the statements of the Prime Minister himself, obviously with the agreement of your party. On access to energy and water, on the accumulation of income from work, we will come back to this when specific projects are really being discussed. I had already opened up to the Minister for Social Integration about some of the pitfalls that may exist, some of the measures that could be put in place. I think we can go in the right direction. I will look at specific measures. On the other hand, on access to energy and water, you are right. Water is needed to drink, cook, wash, wash, etc. The same applies to the energy used to heat up but also to light up. Do you know that VAT on electricity has been increased from 6 % to 21 %? Analyze social rates, etc. or restructure and modify social energy funds! I can understand that VAT is going up to 21%, but exceptions could have been made. This has not even been put on the agenda. I think that would have been interesting. Why not? This would have been a positive measure mainly for people at risk of insecurity. I'm just drawing your attention and I've already done it. I'd like to say it again. Not only are the beneficiaries concerned but also those who provide the distribution, namely the CPAS. When it comes to the restructuring of social funds, it does not fail to worry us every time. Because every time we talk about it, unfortunately, it's down. Be careful! I also know that some are not particularly willing to do so. I will not dwell on the subject of automatic granting of rights. Proposals and projects are on the table. It would be nice to move forward on these files. I am in favour of automatic granting of rights. I am aware that this represents a cost not taken into account and not indicated. But it would be good if this file were completed. For it is not us, opposition, who will be frustrated but rather your partners on the benches of the majority. Protection of the self-employed, okay... Facilitating digital integration! With regard to the accessibility and use of ICTs on a daily basis, I believe that, at some point, we need to move beyond the petition in principle. There is a need for initiatives. I understand that the Minister for the Digital Agenda intends to facilitate and intensify e-inclusion and evaluate the complex system of social tariffs etc. Indeed, precarious people with gsms, this exists and even more than we believe! However, do they have access to the Internet via their gsm, which is their only possibility of connection because they do not have a computer at home? The answer is negative because the price is impossible to bear. Today, is it considered a priority in assessing an individual's needs? No. I believe that a true statement should be made that access to information and communication technologies (ICTs) on a daily basis is an essential social right, as is access to water, energy or adequate housing. It seems to me that we need to make this clear. As far as the fight against over-indebtedness is concerned, I fully agree with you on the controls to be carried out in the context of consumer credit. You are right: credit is still too often granted, whereas in principle the person should not be entitled to it. I also agree with the view that we need to speed up the removal of desensitized consumers from the lists. Unfortunately, it is still too often that people come to contract credit and are denied credit because they are always reported to the plant when they should not. When it comes to child poverty, I support you when you make it a priority. It is well known, at the level of CPAS, that poverty is a habit of reproducing itself. This must therefore be a priority, and I can only agree with you on this point, except for the SECAL. You're talking about improving the functioning of SECAL. We have already addressed several questions to the Minister of Finance, as this service depends on him. Unfortunately, there is not much that seems to be moving in this area, but that is not my point. You're talking about a transfer of information to the CPAS. The initial objective of the SECAL was precisely to remove these files from the management by the CPAS. I therefore do not understand why you want to encourage the transfer of information to CPAS. If you could give me an explanation on this point, it would be particularly nice. I'm going to social and professional activation. I know that this is the leitmotiv of the government, which swears only by this: it would be the universal panacea. However, your action 30, even before your plan was accepted by the Council of Ministers, had already been adopted by Parliament. I quote: "The Minister of Social Integration will expand the scope of the individualised social integration project to cover all new beneficiaries of integration income." This was already a reality even before your plan was submitted to the Council of Ministers. I will make the same point for Action 31: Community services for beneficiaries of integration income within the ISIS. This is already the case, since the law has been changed. So these are two actions that have already been carried out; positive results. However, as I have already said to the Minister for Social Integration, activation is not the panacea. You say this yourself in your introduction: these are multitudes of problems. This is a multidimensional issue. The solution is that you always focus on activation, but the problem is that it is done at the expense of everything else, since the rest is unfortunately not dealt with. People are not complacent in their situation. People who are under the influence of drugs, alcohol, depression, illiterate, inactive, etc., are not necessarily under the influence of employment. This is because poverty accumulates a whole series of factors of fragility. As part of a plan to combat poverty today, I have not seen anything about the fight against insurance, for example. I have not seen anything in the context of people who suffer from mental health problems, who are illiterate, etc. Fighting homelessness, housing first, you know, I'm particularly in favour of it, I know you are, too. These are pilot experiments, they must be extended, they bring success, it is an excellent thing. Let's go to accessible and quality health care. Madam Minister, I assume that you are well aware of the 900 and a few million health care measures taken when Mrs De Block said: "Health care will no longer be affected! We're at the bone, we don't know how to go any further." 900 million savings in 2017. There were 675 of them in the conclave and now we're asking 227 more. I'm going to take one thing: antibiotics. You say that health care must be accessible and of quality. You know Augmentin, you're a doctor. You know it's the most prescribed antibiotic. It's going to go from 3.50 euros to 12 euros. I know that, from time to time, measures must be taken, but who will suffer the most? It is the precarised or the people who will find themselves in a situation close to precariousness. The removal of nasal corticosteroids... it's not for the pleasure of taking them. It is said that this is a public health problem, that we make too many prescriptions and that we have to reduce that, so we increase prices simply because we abolish the refund. It is the health budget of Belgian households that will clearly increase and we know that this will lead to an increase in precariousness. The indexing of the maximum to be billed is exactly the same. The budget freeze for the recognition of new medical homes, all pending an audit of their operation. These are 350,000 Belgians now treated by this system of medical homes. On the package, they provide health care professionals (doctors, kines, nurses, social workers, psychologists) who work in a multidisciplinary way with a qualitative approach to health problems. When we want to fight against precariousness and we know that 350,000 Belgians attend medical homes, whereas most of the time, it is almost 100% of people in precarious situations, I say that there is a big problem. Non-indexing of physician fees. As a result, there are already 4,000 people who have announced that they are leaving the convention. For people who are in precarious conditions, how is this going to happen? These doctors are no longer under contract. On the other hand, we are preventing the creation of new medical homes. You put people in a particularly difficult and difficult situation to access health care. With regard to public services accessible to all, you say that the assessment of the work of experts in living in poverty is planned. In my view, this is a positive point, but I would like to know how this evaluation will be carried out. When do you think the recommendations will be published? As in the case of the Court of Auditors, will you take these recommendations into account in possible changes to your plan? This is how I get to accessible public services. You said: "In the field of justice, the social dimension is crucial. Under no circumstances can the financial capacity of citizens be decisive in their ability to assert their rights. (...) The second-line legal aid system is essential. Establishment of other avenues to increase the accessibility of legal aid, promotion of general legal insurance. (...) Attention should be paid to people with more limited incomes." I assume you remember the steps that have been taken in the area of justice. It takes 25 euros to get a lawyer. There is also the moderator ticket when it comes to using a pro deo lawyer. It is a question of second-line legal aid without any exceptions for those who do not have a lot of income, who benefit from RIS – I think here, in particular, from co-residents – or who do not receive any help. The argument used to justify the moderator ticket is to say that there are abuses in the remedies. But no study has confirmed this fact. In any event, in my opinion, what you say is contradicted by what is being put in place by the government. In conclusion, minister, I have the feeling that you are facing a particularly difficult and delicate exercise and I would not like to be in your place. You have a lot of good will. You have a lot of good intentions. These are, moreover, included in your plan. Unfortunately, there are things I can't believe, as will likely be the case with actors on the ground. Your colleagues do not do you any good by taking measures in the area of justice. Mrs De Block, who came before you with her second plan to fight poverty, should know that. They take action that contradicts the actions or intentions you put in your plan. I repeat, I would not like to be in your place. Now, it might have been interesting - but I know it is a risk for you, in the same way as your colleagues - to have clear arrangements for actions, budgets, deadlines, timetables and evaluations. You may tell me that this is what you will ask your colleagues because there are several measures that do not depend on you. On the other hand, since you have virtually no budget in this area, unfortunately, you depend on others, which I complain about.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic526x.u9	Thank you, Mr. Massin. If we all take so long, we'll have until 2 p.m. That said, I don't mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic526x.u10	Madam President, I will break the trend, because it does not take long to come to the essence. Madam Secretary of State, I would like to begin by thanking you and congratulating you on your federal action plan. You are right to say that one of your main priorities will be the following: the National Child Poverty Plan. I am pleased that you have said so, because I fully agree with the story that it is our first task to prevent people from ending up in poverty. Generation poverty is today the most poignant situation. We must have the courage to focus on children in order to reduce poverty significantly in the future. Poverty is a very complex fact, which cannot be defined in one-two-three. It is not just about a lack of money, but often also about its consequences, such as social exclusion. It requires a whole package of measures to prevent and tackle this. Many figures have already been quoted here and I will not repeat them, they are known by now. A figure which was not mentioned, but which I do find one of the most important data from recent months, is that of the number of families in which children grow up and in which no family member works. We are talking about one in five in Wallonia and one in four in Brussels. I think that is a very important point, because I think that is the essence of a large part of the problem. Poverty is not easy to define and finding a solution is even more difficult. If it is simple, then I think each of us, from any party, would have solved it a long time ago. I am not cynical enough to think that a party has ever entered a government without the intention to solve poverty. However, on the basis of the figures for the past few decades, I can conclude that the solutions provided in the past are not working. That is not a reproach, but if those solutions were to work, we would have been much better off today. Combating poverty is a work of the whole government. This is reflected in the poverty plan and will undoubtedly be reflected in the policy paper. Madam Secretary of State, the fight against poverty is not a matter for you alone, it is a matter for the entire government, and this must also be reflected in the policy of the entire government. This government is opting for a structural approach. That is a completely different approach, an approach that is not just about benefits or raising them. In the first instance, there is a commitment to pillars that are certainly so important. In doing so, we should not only address people who are in poverty today. We must continue to safeguard a system which we must be particularly proud of for those who will need it in the future. I continue to find social security a beautiful and important system. However, we must not be naive; it will not continue if we do not ensure that the group that needs to appeal to it is as small as possible. We must ensure that there is as large a flow as possible of people who can work themselves, who can work themselves out of poverty. We must also ensure that the abuses within that group are dealt with. That's the first thing you have to do. It is only if we can make this group as small as possible that a budget can be made available to increase and improve benefits, especially in the long term. That is why, Mr Massin, what you said about retirement age and its negative consequences sounded strange to me, not because it came out of your mouth, because I know that this is your position and I have heard it before, but for the following reason. You may continue to live in Utopia, but if we do not do these interventions, you can promise a pension to those you are dealing with today as OCMW chairman, but no longer to their children and their grandchildren. Being social doesn't stop for me next year or next generation, that never stops. That is precisely what this government is doing, not only to put things in order today, but to safeguard the system for the future. Following the measures already taken, more than 64,000 jobs have been added to the private sector since October 2014, which is not insignificant. The effects of the tax shift on the lowest wages are noticeable. I have just heard you call that antisocial, Mr Massin, and I find that very strange. We have focused on the lowest wages, which have already increased by more than EUR 80 net per month. This is a good thing, not only because it is necessary to prevent the poverty of working people, but also because it avoids the fall in unemployment created by simply raising benefits. It's a double system. One can be utopian here and explain all kinds of things, but if all the elements and all the problems are not taken into account in the structural approach, then everything falls together like a pudding. Again, all these things are being wagered on. The purchasing power of 2.6 million people has been increased. We have the lowest number of unemployed in Belgium for 24 years. You may deny it, but serious steps have already been taken with regard to living wages. For cohabitants 400 euros has been added, for single people 600 euros and for family heads 800 euros. Is that enough? No, I've already said that, and I confirm that again. I would also like to see the living wage increased to the European poverty line tomorrow. As Mr Lanjri has already pointed out, she sometimes makes a strange leap of thought, because it is very clear in the coalition agreement that we will gradually increase this, taking into account the social benefits, otherwise we will again be hitting the unemployment trap. So it is not something that can simply be raised to EUR 1 000. You must therefore ensure that you can raise the lowest wages in time. I can only see that it is all hands on deck with the opposition if we come up with initiatives that respond to this. It is a final part of the structural approach to poverty. It is true that we need to do more, but this government has already taken serious steps in this area. Some of the things you raise in your poverty plan are very important to me, Madam Secretary of State. For example, it is generally known that the figures for single people with children are becoming problematic here a few times. That's a group that, for a lot of things, falls through the cracks of the net. As mentioned here, there are also certain categories, living wages and other benefits which are not adapted to current situations. You are quite right to focus on projects such as MIRIAM and on the better functioning of DAVO. We will have to talk about this group more often in the coming months and years, perhaps in your policy plan. That group absolutely deserves our attention. The most important thing is that we now have a government that is integral to a structural solution and a vision of poverty policy that should at least be given an opportunity, because the poverty policy of the past certainly has not worked. So let's see if this system can get more people out of that group. We must continue to work on this. The benefits will continue to rise in the long term, but let us start with what we are doing and look at what is coming out of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic526x.u11	Madam Secretary of State, I would like to begin by saying: finally! It's amazing it took so long. I agree with what Mr Massin has said, there is actually not much news in the plan. It is more a compilation of measures already announced and even adopted. We're not just saying that. Civil society organisations have also stated that it has taken a long time, that it has been a difficult course, that they have been little involved and that few changes have been made to the plan at the time of their involvement. It surprised them and also us that it took so long. That is a first general criticism. Furthermore, it is clear that not only we but also the European Commission and the Court of Auditors say that the EU 2020 commitment, which is 380 000 fewer people in poverty, will be very difficult to achieve. Recently there was also the Poverty Barometer of Decade Goals over the period before the current government. I am one of their fears, since the current measures have not yet been taken into account, that the picture may get worse in the coming years than it already is. The European Commission has been pointing to an increasing risk of poverty since 2011, more specifically for certain target groups. A week ago, Bea Cantillon's book appeared. It notes that, although global poverty is not rising in Belgium, it is rising in a number of risk groups already mentioned this morning: the unemployed, the low-skilled, the single-parent families. This leads to an increasing duality in our society. In its 2015 report, the European Commission says that it is unlikely that Belgium will meet the 2020 target. That is actually the continuation of a trend and comments already made in the framework of the previous federal poverty reduction plans. The Court of Auditors said about the previous plan that the data show that policies have so far had difficulty reducing poverty, either because the measures were ineffective or because they were insufficient, taking into account the evolution of poverty. We fear that the third plan will not change that, especially in view of the short time you have taken to look at the Court of Auditors' report and submit the plan to the Council of Ministers. We fear that little will be changed. Madam Secretary of State, it has already been said here that you do not have an easy job. I have the impression that your fellow Members do not always give you much. For example, we have a historically high number of people with a living wage. Never before have so many people as now had to live with benefits far below the poverty line. You may already regret your statement, or you may not have meant it like that. However, at the beginning of the current legislature, you once referred to that number as a shift in bubbles of unemployment and so on towards the OMCWs. You probably didn't mean your pronunciation so hard, but she did arrive. After all, it is more than a shift in tabs for the people about who it is. I remain silent about all the people, young people in particular, who do not even find the way to the OMCW and are therefore deprived of any form of guidance towards training and employment. Madam Secretary of State, my next general criticism is the fragmentation of competences, which is also one of the factors that complicates the fight against poverty, as well as the fact that the bodies used to coordinate the different levels are not functioning. That's exactly what you're doing with the plan. Ms Lanjri pointed out that the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Social Integration had not met since 2013. That's what the Court of Auditors mentioned. There would be a discussion on the composition and the Presidency. I heard that discussion would have been cleared up. Can you tell me more about that? Is there, above all, a date that will meet for the first time? For me, that is one of the most important questions I would like to ask you. I mean that with all due respect, but it is the only real competence you have in that area. It is also absolutely necessary to combat poverty. It must take care of the transversality of policies, at the different levels and within the different areas. Moreover, I note, again with all due respect, that you can't do much more than make plans. So you must at least succeed in bringing together the Inter-Ministerial Conference at regular intervals. I also understand that there is a working group on homelessness within the Inter-Ministerial Conference, which thus has to meet the opinion of the Court of Auditors once a year, particularly before the winter period. According to our information, the working party has not yet come together either. When is this meeting scheduled? I will go into more detail later on about the actions, but another general criticism is a lack of quantified targets, deadlines and budget in the plan. The Court of Auditors had that line of criticism already on the second federal plan to combat poverty. We can pull them through. There are some deadlines, but there are no quantified targets, and there is no budget at all. Above all, there is nothing new under the sun. It is awaiting the improvement of a number of existing measures, such as actions at the level of communication and information, and an evaluation of existing mechanisms and investigations. An evaluation of the third plan is foreseen, but without quantified objectives, without budget and with such vague objectives, it will be a difficult evaluation. The third plan puts a strong focus on work and a preventive approach. I believe that this is a good thing, of course. But that focus on work only makes sense when it comes to quality work. By quality work, I also mean in terms of remuneration. This was also mentioned by Mrs Cantillon a week ago when she spoke of minimum wages, the lowest wages. Due to the strong focus on work, we believe that the risk groups are not taken into account in the plan. You do focus on single parent families, but there are also low-skilled, young people, people with foreign roots. When we look at the poverty rates in this area, we believe that there is sufficient reason to deal with these groups more specifically. For example, the risk of poverty for the weak or the low-skilled is 25.8 %. For highly skilled workers, this is 6.7 %. For young people aged 16-24, it is 20.4 %. For the age group between 25 and 49 it is 14.4 %. The risk of poverty for people born abroad is three times higher than for people born here. This difference is even greater for people born outside the EU. I told you, we're seeing a growing duality. I think there are certainly reasons to take that into account. Some general measures are needed, but I believe that the fight against poverty can never hurt to focus specifically on a number of target groups. We do not see enough of that here. A focus on work and prevention alone will not solve everything. In addition, we are in a context of pre-carisation of labour. There are more and more self-employed, bogus self-employed, for sometimes weird jobs. We see that for some former employees there are now a lot of self-employed people. Often they also live in poverty. The largest employers in our country are temporary employment agencies. They're in the top 10. We are talking about precarisation. Temporary work may be a good step forward, but it is not intended that workers remain stuck in the system of temporary work. We see that the new jobs are mainly taken up by people who are actually already working. That certainly applies to the flexi-jobs, so I distract from a response from Philippe De Backer. Job seekers aren't really getting a job that way. You are also Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities and we are on the eve of Women's Day, so allow me to dwell here a little longer on a remarkable passage from the introduction. You say in the introduction that you have committed yourself to integrating the gender dimension into this anti-poverty plan. I quote: 'The gender dimension integration is done by identifying the differences in the situation between women and men and taking them into account in the formulation of policies'. However, the integration of the gender dimension into the anti-poverty plan does not appear at all. Recently, in the news that Belgium has dropped from the 19th to the 24th place on the Global Gender Gap Index, an indicator for gender equality. I do not find that result surprising at all. For years, several women's organisations have been suing the harsh policy of the Michel government. Her blind saving operation hits women twice as hard. However, the gender mainstreaming law obliges government members to assess the impact of all measures on the different situations of men and women. I asked you a question about that a while ago. I was wondering what was going on and how action is being taken that affects women more and more than men, but which seems to pass the test of gender mainstreaming. Turned out what? The regulatory impact analysis (RIA) is actually an empty box as regards the criterion of equality between men and women. You didn't say that in so many words, but you did come close to your answer to my question. Firstly, there are hardly any statistics available. They are very important to be able to determine who the regulatory proposal relates to and to allow for a gender breakdown. I found it hallucinating that apparently a lot of statistics are not available to do so. Where Ecolo-Groen can often analyse how these measures affect women and men in a different way, several government cabinets seem to fail to do so. Secondly, what I suspected, as many government measures have already been taken that affect women harder than men, is confirmed: the RIA is being filled in in a way that there would not be any measure to be adapted for the negative impact on gender equality. I quote your answer to my question: 'The authors only note that the draft regulation, 1. does not distinguish between men and women or, 2. does not treat them differently, without assessing the impact of regulation on the situation of men and women'. I quote: "In general, therefore, the usefulness of the RIA is not understood by the persons involved in the preparation of regulatory projects. They are usually satisfied with the brief completion of the questionnaire, shortly before the file is submitted to the Council of Ministers. That answer can count. It clearly indicates that this government has problems evaluating its measures, in that the impact on women is greater than on men. It is not surprising that the result is a laundry list of women's unfriendly measures. The example of income guarantee benefits is often cited. I shall give this as an example, without having to re-examine it. In the introduction to your plan, you continue: "Investigations by the Planning Bureau, the Study Committee for Ageing and the Knowledge Centre Pensions show that a number of measures taken by this federal government also benefit women in particular. The pension reform narrows the gap between men's and women's average pensions. The risk of poverty among women is also falling as a result of increasing labour market participation. Madam Secretary of State, if I may say so, that is a very benevolent or even forced interpretation of some recent developments which are positive, but, with all due respect, have nothing to do with current government policy. The first question that needs to be asked is whether the pension reform of the Michael administration has any positive effects. Indeed, extending the careers of both men and women also increases pensions. Longer careers lead to higher pensions in our system, both for men and women. Let it be clear that it benefits both men and women. The next question to ask is whether the pension gap between men and women is narrowing. Yes, the pension gap is getting smaller. The most important question that comes with this is whether this is due to the current government, and then the answer is: no. This trend has been going on for several years. The explanation is very simple. The reason is that older and older cohorts of female pensioners, who had shorter careers on average and thus lower pensions, are dying. Their places are increasingly occupied by younger cohorts of female pensioners who have more often developed a longer career. It is therefore a natural evolution that reflects the employment rate of women increased over the decades and the smaller pension gap is a consequence. It may not be surprising that this government wants to put its hat on it, but it is somewhat cynical to know that this government has just approved a number of women's unfriendly pension measures. That is what I call the reform of the minimum pension. Only 40% of women benefit from this increase, compared to 61 percent of men. With regard to the periods treated as such, there was a very recent reduction in pension support for those who have been unemployed for more than one year in their career as well as for bridge-retired people. The men's government has again managed to push through a pension reform that affects women more than men. In the case of men, 14 percent of the pension is paid, and in the case of women it is paid up to 18 percent. That's what my party's study department calculated on the basis of figures from the Federal Planning Bureau. The report of the Federal Planning Office showed once again that women make greater use of such periods during their careers. Touching such periods therefore means touching more on women's pensions. The impact of raising the retirement age of women from 60 to 65 is increasingly felt. That measure dates back to long before the Michel Government. The Michael Government extends the careers, increases the retirement age, but does so in a similar way for men and women, while a number of more specific measures on pensions show that women are worse off than men. I just wanted to point out this and correct that this interpretation is not correct. You refer to the report of the Study Committee on Ageing in your introduction. There is no evidence that the pension reform of the Michael administration has reduced the gap between men and women. However, it says that pension reform will lead to longer careers and therefore to higher pensions on average. I thought I'd dot the "I" anyway. It is true that there are changes, but they are not due to measures taken by this government, quite the contrary. That was my general criticism. I come to the criticisms by objective. Firstly, social protection, raising the lowest net wages and reducing the cost of employers. These are measures that are necessary, but we do not believe that the way in which this is done is the best way. We think there was more possible. In reality, the effects of the tax shift are divided across the whole of wages. There is actually a linear reduction in the burden on labour. Moreover, this government has chosen not to request anything in return for the reduction of the burden, which means that there is no guarantee of job creation. It's a farce of this government to use strengthening competitiveness and jobs, jobs, jobs in a sentence. Madam Secretary of State, if we put it in an international perspective, Belgium will be in the lead twice during Michel-I's term of office. First of all, when it comes to controlling the wage bill. That's where we're leading. Secondly, when it comes to effectiveness. In no country are there fewer working people than in Belgium. What do we have to conclude from that? This is that the competitiveness of companies is improving, but these efforts do not contain enough keys to ensure that the room for lower wage costs is converted into additional jobs. The government expects lower wage costs to automatically result in additional jobs. In the meantime, it must be clear that this is unfortunately not a natural law and that the government should have asked for some more guarantees and did not have to give a blank cheque to the companies. Therefore, there is an urgent need for accompanying measures to encourage companies to create jobs with these resources. At least a relationship must be established between the tax shift and job creation. Three more years of tax shift without a job shift is not feasible for this society. See for example the flexi-jobs. I already mentioned that. De Backer's response shows that many of the 70 000 additional jobs are available from a few hours a week, so jobs for people who are already at work. That explains why there are jobs, but there are no extra people at work. Those lowest wages. It is true that there is a net gain for those lowest wages, but according to the model we advanced it could have been better with an even more targeted reduction in the burden. So it was much money that cost this also better spent. Then those who need that most eventually got more money in their portfolio and there was also more guarantee for that job creation. You will also write to this Action 1 in connection with the increase in net wages that further initiatives will be developed in 2017 to provide incentives for people without or with limited income for increased professional activity. I was wondering exactly what this is about. What exactly do you mean by that? Are you talking about measures to get the long-term sick and the unemployed into work, for example? I would have liked to have had some more explanation about that. Social protection, point b, raising the social minimums. I would just like to add the most recent figures on the distance between living wage and poverty line. Our own calculation shows, firstly, that people with a living wage receive benefits that are far too low to escape poverty. In 2017, people with a living wage from the government will receive a benefit that is 251 euros too low to make monthly ends meet. The living wage will still be 22% below the poverty line in 2017. Secondly, with this effort, there is hardly any change in the situation of wage-earners. In 2014, when this government took office, the difference between the living wage and the poverty threshold was 265 euros for a single person. At the beginning of this year the difference was 262 euros. Thanks to this year's efforts, the gap will reach 251 euros in early 2017. The current government has thus already closed EUR 14 from the 265 euro gap. Let me give you another example. The Court of Auditors is talking about the IGO. For a living with two children, the IGO is only 59.4% of the poverty threshold. Efforts have indeed been made, but those percentages here and there will never be enough to close the gap. Without a timetable or a budget, we can even doubt whether the real will is to close the gap as well. It is a pity that I have to note this, but the fact that the welfare envelope will not be spent for 100 % but only for 75 % points in that direction. Your plan is already dated in that area. The question is therefore what we still have to believe of the rest of the content. However, I will not put it that sharply. It is a pity that Mrs Lanjri is not here. After all, it relativizes the impact of the welfare envelope. It is right, on the one hand, to do so. Even if we were to spend the envelope at 100%, the gap would always be closed by just a few euros. On the other hand, the government has just been constantly beating itself up because it has managed to achieve that few percent here and there. That's a contradiction. What is it now? Is this wealth envelope important and does it make a difference or is it relative? If it is relative, it is not appropriate for the current government to be too harsh in raising the social minimums. That's pretty contradictory. Of course, the coalition agreement is being trampled on that point. The coalition agreement literally states that the wealth envelope would be spent by 100 %. The welfare envelope serves to raise the lowest benefits. I must confess that I almost fell off my seat when I heard Mr Michel's State of the Union tell Servais Verherstraeten on the radio that everyone has to contribute. Apparently, therefore, people who, as I indicated, live below the poverty line for more than EUR 250 must also make a contribution. That was a very hallucinating statement. So should people below the poverty line close the gap in the budget because the government still has to think about whether it would dare to ask for any of the added value of capital revenue? The 100% use of the welfare envelope was almost the flagship of all government parties in their poverty reduction. Two years in a row, they said that the current government, unlike the previous governments, would spend the entire envelope. That can count. They want to take social benefits into account. The question has already been asked. It's not quite clear yet. For example, what benefits, such as a social home, will count? In what way, knowing that civil society organisations, regardless of the principle, could this already criticise its feasibility? My final question, on the minimum levels, will also be addressed this afternoon in the Committee on Social Affairs, but I would like to put it once again, since this is what it is about. What about the income replacement? Did you find that budget? I hope so very much. I hope that it can also be introduced retroactively, because it is an injustice that really needs to be corrected. I refer to Action 5 in your plan. Initiatives are also being taken with a view to the same increase for the IVT for persons with disabilities. We will probably hear more about this this afternoon. As regards the income replacement allowance, you state, in Action 6, that you want to examine the possibilities of allowing persons receiving an IVT to obtain an income from work. That is a good thing. It is also a demand of the sector itself to get guidance for work, as long as it can be done in a flexible and voluntary manner. I wonder what possibilities you see in that regard. As far as Action 7 is concerned, the optimisation of the socio-professional exemption, which is now indeed very complex and currently plays a very limited role as a stepping-up to work. I wonder how you intend to deal with this problem. What is foreseen in that respect? Action 8 concerns research into whether the regulation of living wages is still adapted to current forms of society or care. Minister Borsus' policy paper was recently published on the Chamber's website. It's getting a little clearer. Minister Borsus has asked the HIVA to identify new forms of society and/or forms of care, to ask the OCMWFs if they have problems assigning the appropriate categories to such situations and to examine whether the current categories of living wage are sufficiently adapted to those situations. That is a good thing, but I think it can go on. Indeed, it would be a good opportunity to encourage a debate on a more harmonised interpretation of the status of cohabiting by the OMCWs. That statute will be examined during the social investigation. In order to take account of any particular situation, the definition does not contain strict economic and household criteria. That is a good thing. On the other hand, according to the actors on the ground, the divergent interpretations of the Statute lead to great legal uncertainty for beneficiaries. Some OMCWFs take into account the question of whether or not one lives together voluntarily or with the existence of a life project, that is to say, between the cohabitants. Also, the settlement of the income of the persons with whom one resides is not carried out in a uniform manner by the OCMWFs. The jurisdiction is also divided between the defenders of the purely economic criterion, the economies of scale due to cohabitation, and of the domestic criterion, common rules governing household matters. Do you know whether Minister Borsus is also taking this into account in his investigation, in order to achieve a clear, clear line between the various OCMW debt holders, in the interests of the right holders? Then point D, Action 10, examine the existing social energy tariffs with a view to a possible improvement. I would like to ask you a question here, Madam Secretary of State. It is a Flemish matter, but given your coordinating role, I would ask you to raise the following with your Flemish colleagues. I myself sit in Ghent on the local advisory committee on water and to be entitled to a social rate for water, one must be entitled to a living wage on 1 January, for example. Other categories are eligible, but if you are not entitled to a living wage until 2 January, you will not be entitled to a social rate for water for a whole year. I find that rather absurd. Is that something that you can address and resolve with your colleagues in Flanders, or can you provide a different way of awarding? That really is causing distressing situations, as you can imagine. It's about a discount of 80 %, that really can count. This can make the difference between seeing the water closed or agreeing a feasible payment plan. I'd really like you to take this with you for the good of those people. It cannot be possible for one date to determine whether or not one is entitled to it for a whole year. As you know, we consider the automatic allocation of rights to be very important. We have already had an exchange of views on this in the Committee on Social Affairs. There is also a resolution pending in the Chamber. We hope that, if it depends on us, we will be able to land fairly quickly over majority and opposition and sign this together. On the positive side, point 11 is the automatic allocation of social tariffs for energy where possible. Prices for gas and electricity have been granted automatically since 1 January 2009. The FPS Economy transmits to the energy suppliers every three months the list of clients to whom they should award a social tariff, but not everyone is reached in this way. For those receiving benefits from DG Persons with Disability or from the Federal Pension Service, they account for 80% compared to 65% to 70% of those dependent on an OCMW. So there is still work to be done there. In your introduction, you referred to federal poverty officials and their list of rights that can be granted automatically. That's a bit slow, it's been announced a long time. Will this list be published effectively? Can we get a look at the list of federal poverty officials? The second objective is to combat child poverty and draw up a national child poverty plan. Of course one cannot oppose that, it is much needed, but of course it is yet another plan. Children in poverty benefit slightly more if the welfare envelope were to be granted at 100%, so that their parents would have a slightly higher income. I have the same question as Mrs Lanjri. Will there be a link to the Senate information report? Actions 27 and 28 are about improving the operation of the DAVO, via a more modern website, with the possibility of digitally entering applications and calculating the amount in a more objective way. That is a good thing, but for us it is important to go beyond modernising the DAVO website. You already know this because it is something that we have been putting on the table for years, in particular the creation of a universal alimony fund to really fight child poverty and poverty in single-parent families, through a system whereby DAVO automatically intervenes in all payments of child support and ex-husbands, whereby DAVO receives the payments, pays the beneficiaries, recovers the debts and pays advances, and where all court rulings and notarial deeds are automatically delivered to DAVO. That would be real progress. This, of course, means that the current income ceilings laid down in the law must be abolished. I just wanted to re-raise that. We propose to go further in this direction, in order to be able to work more efficiently in the context of the fight against poverty. The third objective is social and professional activation, including compulsory GPMI, community service for commuters and long-term unemployed and a reintegration programme for returning to work for disabled people. In short, everyone at work. In connection with the Community service, only pensioners seem to escape this form of forced volunteering. What about the community service for the long-term unemployed? We have not heard from them for some time. We are not, of course, a questioning party, but it is always good to know what the government's further plans are on this matter. It is still unclear whether sanctions will be linked to the reintegration of long-term sick. I am already talking at length and I do not want to stir up the whole discussion, but I wonder whether you can name me one study that shows that there is a real improvement in the possibilities for professional reintegration by the community service. We have not found any such study, compared to the examples in countries such as the Netherlands and Great Britain. On the contrary, it even threatens to go the other way. I could give you a lot of arguments to show that, in my opinion, this government has made ideological choices rather than effective choices that make people out of poverty. We have already had this discussion on the basis of a draft law, so I will not repeat those arguments. Well, here's what I want to say. I think that a somewhat bizarre one-two is being played with the Flemish competent colleagues. Less subsidies are provided for the social economy. The rules that determine how long a person can stay in the social economy will also be stricter, with the risk that someone who is thrown out will eventually have to turn to the OMCW. For a benefit well below the poverty threshold, the person concerned will then have to perform community service, potentially the same job as the work he or she previously carried out in the social economy. However, wages are much lower and there is much less guidance. In addition, there is competition with people entering the social economy. I find that very bizarre and I am very worried about that. Action 35 means that you want to eliminate unwanted negative effects of a part-time worker with an income guarantee benefit by animating the status in order to prevent workers from entering full unemployment. I wonder what you mean by dynamizing in that action point. Action 36 means that you want to explore how OCMWFs with positive incentives can provide a better incentive and flow to sustainable work and social inclusion. Are there any new elements in the pipeline, at the top of the current GPMI and community service regulations? What measures are you talking about specifically in that action line? The fourth objective is to combat homelessness. There will be a new circular on the reference address. It would be good if this circular were to clarify things effectively. In order to obtain a reference address, users now have to take different steps and many exchanges are needed between the OCMW and the municipal administration. The legislation on these procedures is anything but clear, which often means that lawyers, OCMW Chairmen, social assistants, municipal officials and ship colleges are struggling to reach a consensus on how that legislation should be applied. If the letter of the tour brings clarity and clarity, then that would be very good. With regard to access to quality health care, you want to make sure that this has been known for a long time and it falls within the competence of Minister De Block to require the third-party payment system to the general practitioners for persons who are entitled to an increased allowance and you want to ensure that it is respected by the doctors. That seems very important to me. In what way will you or Minister De Block oversee this? In the case of healthcare, Action 49 on improving the reimbursement of innovative medicinal products with a paediatric indication, I have the same question as Mr Massin. How do you reconcile this with the government's recent budget slopes, which aim to change the level of reimbursement of certain medicines? With regard to Objective 6, the accessibility of public services, working with experience experts and improving cooperation is a very interesting and important measure, especially to reduce the obstacles faced by people, especially those in poverty, in access to public services. An evaluation carried out in August 2015 shows that experience experts do indeed play an important role in the immediate aid they can provide to people in poverty, but that this aid must be integrated into a much broader policy of poverty reduction, as you pointed out in your introduction. Those experience experts should be able to formulate recommendations and advise on the functioning of the administration in the field of poverty reduction and social exclusion. I believe that we can step up our efforts there and take steps forward in order to strengthen this role towards policy. I think it is also important to assess the impact of the work of experience experts on the accessibility of that service. That is a good thing. Finally, I would like to talk briefly about increasing the accessibility of the second-line legal assistance system. I will not quote all the examples I have here, but I wonder if you have consulted Minister Geens on this. Indeed, all recent changes in the field of justice go in the opposite direction and raise the threshold for people in poverty to address the courts and enforce their rights. In this context, too, I have the impression that you are not being given much. Maybe we should attribute that to a bad star. You have a very difficult job in the government. I think you'd like more. This also proves the passage on the welfare envelope. Unfortunately, we have to correct that. So much for my general comment, but also with a number of questions, on which I would like to have a little more discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic526x.u12	Madam Secretary of State, we have heard a great deal. I will not speak for too long, given the advanced hour. Let me come back to today's figures: 14.9 % of the Belgian population belongs to the group at risk of poverty on the basis of income, 5.8 % of the population lives in severe material deprivation and 14.9 %, less than 60 years of age, lives in a household with very low work intensity. I think we should consider these figures. Often those numbers are mentioned in a breath with so many other numbers. I think we should try to imagine what this is about. In other words, according to the European poverty indicator in Belgium, 21.1% of the population live in poverty. My colleague, Mr Massin, has just said that it concerns 2.34 million Belgians. So 2,34 million Belgians are having a hard time. What affects me is that we are actually doing very badly compared to the countries around us. You should take note of the fact that the Czech Republic, Sweden, the Netherlands, Finland, Denmark, France and Germany can all present better figures. We come after all these listed countries. We must be concerned about this and, in fact, we must be ashamed of it. If we look at the proportion of people in a family with low work intensity, only Greece and Spain are higher. Only Greece and Spain are doing worse when we talk about low-work-intensity families. I find that hallucinating. I do not want to say that all this is the fault of the current government. Let that be very clear! Of course, there are historical facts behind this. But the current government won't solve the problem with its mantra jobs, jobs, jobs. We are at the lowest level of employment in Europe, except for two. I think that's horrible. The current government is not doing anything about it, despite the fact that it claims it is. You too, Madam Secretary of State, state in your plan that it should be about social security and social assistance. Both should help reduce the overall risk of poverty. Neither the government declaration nor the policy letters of the various ministers, nor the federal poverty plan we are discussing here today, emphasize the increase in social minima in the fight against poverty. Our study service has once tried to add up what has been saved since the beginning of the current government with an impact on benefits. Then we are talking about the measures of the government agreement, about the budgetary control of March 2015, of July 2015, the format of the budget 2016, the format of the budget 2017. All in all, we are talking about EUR 2.175 billion in savings that directly affect benefits. Then when I see your plan, full of good intentions, I think: what the hell are we doing? You write such a plan, but at the same time you make such savings. I'm having a really hard time with that. I will also mention the poverty barometer, even if it is a Flemish tool and it means that I am too generalising to the other regions, but that is what I know best. According to the Flemish poverty barometer, families at the bottom of society simply cannot live and the social minimums are farther away from the poverty line than ever before. Furthermore, I read again, this is only about Flanders, and I quote: "The federal poverty plan 2016 does not include a roadmap where the increase of the social minimums to the poverty threshold is addressed." That's really, really sorry. Then I come to my comments on access to health care, my stick horse. In this context, too, the poverty barometer indicates that another significant step backwards is being taken with regard to the affordability of care for families living in poverty. Once again, Madam Minister, we are seeing a poverty plan full of good intentions. We wonder, however, what concrete results can be obtained from other measures taken by the government? Please note that there are also a number of concrete measures with which we fully agree. It's nice of you to do it. I think they're necessary. But actually that is a bit of work in the margins while I see two Achilles heels in this plan: firstly, raising the benefits and, secondly, the timetable for all the measures mentioned. Where the hell is that timeline? I'll bring up a few. Much has already been said here and I do not want to repeat everything. I would just like to talk about this income replacement for disabled people. I shall, like Mrs Willaert, be asking a question about this in the Committee on Social Affairs. My question is actually very simple. I've already asked you about that. You yourself indicated that this had to be raised as it was a forgetfulness. My specific question will be this afternoon whether it really is in the budget, Madam Secretary of State? That's what I'm really wondering. Then there is the automatic allocation of rights that you are talking about here. I couldn't agree more. You know we agree with that. I hope, together with Mr Willaert, that we can adopt the resolution on this issue today or tomorrow. But when will that happen? That doesn't say anything. We all know that's what we want. The question is, however, when will you actually do this? With regard to the third payment rule, you indicate that Mr De Block will further facilitate this and take further initiatives. We understand that Mrs De Block is not taking any initiatives at all on this third-party payment rule at the moment. On the contrary, she has expressly said that she wants to wait for the evaluation and that there can be no possibility of enlargement at the moment. That's how I get to DAVO. There are some good things in it. Mr Willaert has just said it, it sounds good. Your measures concerning the MIRIAM project also sound good. In fact, Madam Secretary of State, I have to say that a lot of things sound good, with the emphasis on "clinking'. We're wondering what's gonna end up. As far as DAVO is concerned, is there enough money in the budget this time? You know that we have rightly criticised this in the past. I wonder whether we will not have to make the same comment again during the budget debate. In connection with the pension dossier, I would also like to talk a little more about the law on gender mainstreaming. I am not going to repeat what the honourable Member has just said, and I fully agree with that. As far as I'm concerned, this is the same thing. I really wonder how it is possible that there is a gender mainstreaming law, but that no minister in this government takes that into account, even if you support it in this way. I don't understand. I would like to come back to public health, to Action 48. There you say that the Minister will commit himself to making sustained and additional efforts to improve patient access to effective and innovative medicines. The following action is also about improving the reimbursement of innovative medicinal products with a paediatric indication. Yeah, we don't see much of that for a while. That is another fine intention, but at the moment we have the impression that, if there is a problem, Minister De Block will negotiate and try to solve the matter, but we do not see much of a general vision for resolving it structurally in the future. You say you're making child poverty a priority. I fully agree with that, but in the past we have seen that these plans often stick to very fine words. I'm curious to see it this time. In this context, I would also like to ask whether the relationship with the Flemish colleagues is better now, Madam Secretary of State, or is it always being stretched by Flanders? I sincerely hope that it will be better in the meantime, first and foremost for the children, but also for you. The real tragedy, after all, is that this is my personal conviction, and it is allowed occasionally in politics that you are very serious about what you are writing and that you would very much like to realize it. However, your colleagues in the government do not allow you the opportunity. That's why the fuzzyness is once again spiking away from your plan. We therefore fear that, apart from some small details which are also important, nothing will come of it again. Thank you for your attention and I hope to get an answer to some of my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic526x.u13	Madam President, allow me first of all to go back to an element for the analysis of the speech of the Secretary of State. It is the motion for a resolution on combating poverty, adopted in May 2015, which, I think, is the founding element on the basis of which Parliament took part in this debate. I would like to speak on my behalf but also on behalf of my political group. Mrs Fonck is currently in the Presidents' Conference and it is difficult for her to be present here at the same time. Madam Secretary of State, I would like to ask you a simple question. There was a resolution in May 2015. I would therefore like to know the status of this resolution and its implementation and your forthcoming agenda. Indeed, in your presentation you mentioned a whole series of notions, but in terms of timing, things are not clear. If I can afford one thing, it is that poverty is above all a trap. All that needs to be done is not to fall into it and the risk of poverty as mentioned here in the debate is obviously important. People in this situation must not be allowed to fall into this trap. We must take a number of dynamic measures, be proactive and anticipate a number of decisions in order to move forward in this direction. How can we prevent the poverty trap from closing on Belgian citizens? I would point out that you and my colleagues have been quoted as saying that almost 20% are at the limit of this situation; this is a fundamental problem. I would like to stress the existence of platforms set up wherever this situation arises, with actors on the ground. These are present in the field sometimes for a long time with know-how, knowledge, a real know-how of the situation. I would like to thank those operators who have "hands in the country", as Mrs Lanjri said earlier, in relation to these actions to avoid falling into the poverty trap. These actors in the field, whether they come from the CPAS or from the community, are important people in this process. I would therefore like to see support for these platforms as part of the actions implemented. Indeed, it is in cities and villages that action must continue, day by day. I will mention a few things. My colleagues took the time to target the entire note. I will quote seven or eight and insist on these. You mentioned the plan, Madam Secretary of State, for the empowerment of single mothers. It's an important dimension. They benefit from a prolonged integration income until the end of 2017. It is indicated that the results of these pilot projects will be closely monitored and coordinated, and that they will lead to new initiatives for the benefit of this target group. The question that I asked you at the beginning of the speech, on the forthcoming agenda, is important. When will the results of these pilot projects and the actions carried out by you and the services in this context be available? Second point: you have obviously talked about it; it is the housing first project. Having a home, a home, a home, a place to live, is to avoid falling into poverty and homelessness. You insisted at length on the subject in your presentation. I believe that the budgets of the housing first should be sustained, and that the current funding, which is annual, should be replaced in order not to weaken the actors on the ground. A sustainable dimension would give them a lasting solution for these projects. I would therefore like to insist on the sustainability of these subsidies. The third point: the problem of SECAL, which you mentioned in your presentation, was also included in the policy note of previous years. You say that the Maintenance Claims Commission must evaluate the case law and provide advice on how to calculate the parents' respective contributions. I think it's important. But you also plan to develop an objective and transparent guideline for calculating maintenance contributions, the food calculator, based on data collected by the University of Antwerp. What is the status of this committee's work on the subject? The objective is important for the future. SECAL carries out a fundamental work in the fight against poverty. Fourth point: the automatic granting of the social tariff for gas and electricity. The situation is not yet optimal. In some situations, people get out of this possibility from the right to the social tariff. There are technical and electronic problems in data exchange. Have any problems been identified? Are they solved? In this sector, it seems to me that we must opt for a policy oriented solution, i.e. not just to identify problems but to solve them so that people can benefit from this right automatically. This automatic granting is essential as is the granting of social rights, which seems to me to be a right purely and simply, because these people are already in a precarious and fragile situation. There is a need for progress in this area. I am asking you about your agenda as part of this automatic granting of social rights. Proposals are on the table. You mentioned them and my colleagues. I would also like to do so and to express the importance of this subject to us. There is one point that you did not mention in your presentation or perhaps I was distracted, but in that case you will correct me. Your previous policy note referred to poverty among immigrants. It seems to me that, as far as they are concerned, special attention must be paid to them. You mentioned the launch of a study with an external centre of expertise to identify existing anti-racism policy, report gaps and give an overview of good practices abroad. For my part, I believe that dialogue with federated entities must exist. There is also an inter-ministerial commission on the subject. It is therefore possible to set in motion contacts between federated entities and the federal government in order to allow better integration into society and to consider good practices in order to build on the best of them which can be a step in the right direction. But mostly, I wanted to know if the study you started at the time had been finalized. Are there any positive results on the subject? I would like to address a penultimate point with you, concerning the whole issue of bailiff fees. We did not explicitly mention this this morning. When you unfortunately have late payments and the bailiffs knock on your door, they anticipate and, above all, there are fines that are sometimes more important than the main debt. In this context, and you have to work on it in a cross-cutting way, you have mentioned this too with your government colleagues. It is they too who must take initiatives and, in the Council of Ministers, be attentive to all this problem of the excessive costs demanded by the bailiffs. We will necessarily have to go back to that. The last point, which is important, concerns the problem of a "gateway" right of the self-employed in difficulty, who are proposed to put an end to their activities without falling into a situation of temporary or permanent poverty. Minister, in your proposals, you say that depending on the fiscal feasibility, concrete initiatives will be undertaken before the end of the legislature to respond to this issue. We know the budgetary context. What are your ambitions in this regard? The self-employed sector has our full attention on this point. What's your calendar? How are we going to move forward on this? There are many small self-employed people, regardless of where they are, small traders or other activities, who are at the level of the poverty line and have serious problems. What concrete initiatives do you intend to take to address this problem and not to let them fall into poverty? Madam Chair, I could have been longer, but I left that to others... I tried to be precise and clear on a few points that I think are essential. We will have the opportunity, Madam Secretary of State, to come back to other points in the budget, depending on your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic526x.u14	Indeed, the interventions were long and important. It is also due to the fact, Madam Secretary of State, that you are only now arriving in committee. We have tried with the committee secretariat to have you here, in committee, since 1 September. It is only now that you have made yourself available. I suggest that you answer all the questions, but we keep the replies for a next meeting, which will be devoted to the discussion of your policy note. The Social Affairs Committee will be held here at 2.15 p.m. As for me, I will not speak specifically, since my colleague Evita Willaert spoke for Ecolo-Groen. However, I would like to ask you why the interdepartmental conference has not been held since June 2013. In these circumstances, how do you intend to develop a national plan to combat child poverty? Can we really imagine that such a plan is independent of a plan dedicated to adults? In my opinion, children are poor because their parents are poor; they do not themselves invent poverty. I won't go any further.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic526x.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for all your comments. I will not go back to the general figures, as they have often been dealt with here. I also discussed it extensively in my introduction. Well, time is running out. I can insist that there has been a clear increase in living wages, that the number of unemployed has never been so low and that there is a difference of EUR 400 for people living together, but I believe that majority and opposition will continue to differ in this respect. I will now answer the specific questions you have asked. They were often similar. Questions about the consultation have often come back. Also questions about the Court of Auditors and about the Inter-Ministerial Conference. I do not quite understand the remarks made by the Belgian Network on Combating Poverty. I think Mrs Lanjri was talking about that. I went to the network myself. We've had a long discussion. We discussed this extensively on a Monday afternoon, as I recall, in the POD MI. I don't understand the comment. The Belgian Anti-Poverty Network was first extensively consulted through the POD MI. I also regularly meet poverty groups in my office, there are many. So there was indeed systematic consultation. It is now taking place with a view to the Child Poverty Plan and it has also taken place with regard to the Federal Poverty Plan. In addition, my initiatives were first discussed within the government and then I myself went to the Belgian Anti-Poverty Network one afternoon. I don't know who you've been talking to, Mrs. Lanjri, but you can ask the POD MI. I'm not avoiding the discussions with the terrain. I think they're important. We have the Belgian Anti-Poverty Network, precisely because there are so many organisations. If I have to meet all the organizations separately, I won't do anything else. That is why we spoke to the network. Mr Van Geertsom of the POD MI is working on this very intensively. Questions are asked from 4 000 addresses. We meet twice a week on Monday afternoon with Mr Van Geertsom, who then gives feedback from the field. In short, I do not understand the point made by the honourable Member. But on this point, my defence is that we do take it into account. There has also been and will be a consultation for the Child Poverty Plan. We are therefore making every effort in the world to involve the site in the plan. We even do that with the academic world. I myself recently met those responsible for the decade goals. Targets came out on Tuesday. I met the authors of the decade objectives at my office on Friday and discussed the results in order to identify the needs. My cabinet is therefore making a great deal of effort to discuss and identify the most urgent needs. I will certainly take this with me and I will take it further into account. The Inter-Ministerial Conference has also often been discussed. It's true she hasn't met yet. There have been discussions about the Presidency outside me. The issue has now been clarified and would lie with the Walloon Government. I'll contact you, see if she'll meet. I can tell you that the IMC itself is not yet in place, but that, as a result of the children's poverty plan, interfederal IKWBs are planned with the regions. In the light of the different compositions of the governments, all the political parties in this country will be represented. Thus, the interfederal IKWs related to the child poverty plan are planned, which partly eliminates the IMC, as the child poverty plan is indeed on the right track and on the right timing. So we want to deliver the plan in early 2017 in consultation with all regions and with the parties involved, both political parties and civil society. In short, the child poverty plan will therefore be dealt with through interfederal IKWBs. Mr Massin, Mrs Willaert, on the one hand, I take note of the fact that the plan has arrived rather late. On the other hand, I would have taken too little account of the Court of Auditors' comments. That's true. The Court of Auditors was consulted on 13 July 2016 and 20 July 2016. We were able to choose between, on the one hand, postponing the plan to involve the Court of Auditors and, on the other hand, proposing the plan and taking into account the comments made by the Court of Auditors, which would allow us to start implementation immediately. We chose that last option, to make sure that the plan could go to the government, and then we could work on the plan. Mr Massin, what you said, referring to the dates (13 and 20 July), is correct. Due to the delay, it was not possible to take account of all the observations of the Court of Auditors. We made a choice. We decided to continue with the federal plan. However, it is not because the plan exists that the recommendations of the Court of Auditors should not be taken into account. The option has been taken to continue. For me, the Court of Auditors is a very important institution to which we must be accountable and which we will take into account in the future for the child poverty plan. I asked for automatic rights in the Social Affairs Committee. There have been hearings, and we must continue to do so. MyHandicap has been asked for. This is fully started and was rolled out in the summer months. It works the way it should. I would like to stress that this is an important step forward for people with disabilities towards automation and greater accessibility. It is not because this is happening digitally that non-digitally active people would not have access to it. It was created in such a way that people can have the form filled out digitally via OCMW, doctor or health insurance fund. Those who are self-reliant enough can make the request via the digital platform MyHandicap. It's fully operational. Multidisciplinary teams are active in the field of regional authorities, regions and municipalities to analyse the applications. They can play shorter on the ball. That processing process is currently under way. We have to make up for the delay in the past, and there are still a lot of requests. The purpose is to reduce the processing period of the application, which is four months today, to a few weeks. That is a big step forward for one target group, although there are others. A serious step forward has been taken for people with disabilities. I would like to thank all the actors, including DG HAN, all the social workers, doctors and paramedics who are helping. Without the people on the ground, it is impossible to roll this out. The list drawn up by federal poverty officials for the automatic allocation of rights will be finalised by the end of the year, beginning next year. I expect the list, I will study it and bring it to Parliament. As far as DAVO is concerned, alimony and divorce are a specific group that we want to deal with very specifically. With regard to maintenance money, there are contacts with the Cabinet of Justice, because this is mainly a legal issue. Unfortunately, the study of Antwerp is delayed. This study is not subsidised by us, so we depend on the academic world. In the future, we hope to obtain academic figures and to obtain academic explanations on how objective it all is. There was a question from the OCMWFs for more clarity. I think that's what Mrs Willaert was asking for. We are now making every effort to make it better known. The fact that it goes through the notaries is certainly a big step forward. The digital platform is also a major step forward. The aim is to increase the awareness of the OCMWFs because it is important that the service providers, whoever they are, are aware of the existence of the DAVO. Knowledge is often important to clarify everything and to make aid more efficient. Several people, including Mrs Willaert, Mrs Jiroflée, Mrs Lanjri, Mr Massin, Mr de Lamotte, asked about the reference address. That came up with the BAPN, among other things, on that Monday afternoon. That is a very important matter. Contacts are ongoing with Justice and Home Affairs in order to draw up a clear circular on this issue. The circular is in full development and should make it clear that the reference address is an important issue in the fight against poverty, as well as in helping people to benefit. Many specific questions have been asked, including health care and the self-employed. The very specific questions are best addressed to Minister De Block or Minister Borsus. As far as doctors and medication are concerned, I think it is correct to check the medication. Mr Massin, I know the Augmentin well, but you also know that it is being used far too much. It's good to do studies on drugs and their use. If a drug is over-prescribed, it can be modified to save money. These means could be used for other medicines and, among other things, for development. However, as it falls under the responsibility of Mrs De Block, I invite you to hold this discussion with her. As far as the specific situation of the self-employed is concerned, Parliament must consult directly with Mr Borsus. I think these are the measures he wants to take. I'll talk to him about it. I also thought about Parliament, the plan, the timing and the discussion that could not be held. I'm always willing to come here. There are always opportunities to point out to me, through parliamentary questions, matters that are contained in the plan. That belongs to your democratic right of control. That is what needs to be done in relation to the government. I therefore propose that you interpelate me through parliamentary questions on the state of play or on matters which are not clear to you. If you have specific questions, I have no problem with you asking them. This can be done here, but also through parliamentary questions in between, if it is not possible to take the necessary time to do so. As far as the welfare envelope is concerned, the government agreement states that it will be paid at 100%. I cannot deny that, but I would like to point out that it was paid out for 100 percent last year and 76 percent this year. That's still more than it's ever been. Personally, I would have preferred to have seen 100 %. That's true. I admit that, but you know the circumstances in which we have to work. I understand those Members of this House who, in very difficult circumstances, are trying to balance the budget. That does not prevent me from stressing the importance of our social minimums. I make that clear, too, through all channels in the government, but the current budgetary conditions and the level of threat cannot simply be swept away. Personally, I would prefer to see things differently, but as a member of the government, I naturally understand my fellow Members who have to reach agreements in very difficult circumstances. There were also a number of parliamentary questions, but perhaps I can give the answers to them because the one answer to the question about prostitution alimentary is rather long. I answered the question about DAVO. The meeting with the Justice Department is under way. I can simply hand over the answers to the questions if you agree. We will deal with the IVT later, because there have been actions in this area too. I think I have answered all the questions and comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic526x.u16	In the transcript, the link may be established with the questions, as some of the authors were absent. We will meet again on 23 November to hear some 15 questions addressed to you, but they deal with issues other than poverty. In addition, we will meet on 7 December to discuss your policy note. On the basis of your answers, the debate will resume on that date, but if members wish us to meet before, we can put the replies on the agenda of 23 November. The choice is made. For me, both are possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic526x.u17	So, you're proposing one day for questions and another for the policy note?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-09-54-commissie-ic526x.u18	Yes, we'll take the time it takes.
