ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u1	Mr President, Minister, this is a technical question relating to the specific status of non-profit organisations, which must also comply with the rules. Under the Act of 11 January 1993 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing, non-profit organisations must also provide their bank and their accountant with a statement from the ultimate beneficiary. However, the term "beneficiary' is not always clear for a non-profit association. Article 1 of the Law of 27 June 1921 on non-profit-making associations, non-profit-making international associations and foundations, as amended by the Law of 2 May 2002, provides that the non-profit-making association may not confer any material advantage on its members. Article 2 (1) (9°) of the Law of 27 June 1921 provides that the statutes of a non-profit association must state the purpose of the property of the association in the event of its dissolution, which assets must be used for a non-interested purpose. These articles show that under no circumstances can natural persons be the ultimate beneficiary of a non-profit association. Article 8 (1), third paragraph, 2° of the Law of 11 January 1993 determines who is to be regarded as the beneficial owner of a legal person other than a company. Since points (a) and (b) of this Article refer only to natural persons who are beneficial owners and who do not apply to non-profit organisations, Article 8 (1) third paragraph, (c) provides that the ultimate beneficiary of the non-profit organisation is the natural persons who control 25% or more of the legal person's assets. In the case of application of different regulations or manuals, this shall be understood to mean those who exercise a mandate in the governing body of the non-profit organisation. Mr Minister, first of all, is the above-mentioned reasoning correct and can the directors of the non-profit organisation be defined as final beneficiaries of the non-profit organisation? If so, can you assure me that this will not affect the tax situation of the directors of the non-profit organisation, since they can never claim part of the non-profit organisation's assets? Secondly, when determining the final beneficiaries of non-profit organisations, it is sufficient to refer to the publications in the annexes of the Belgian Official Journal, since, pursuant to Article 26novies, Paragraph 2, second paragraph, 2° of the Law of 27 June 1921, all directors of the non-profit organisation must be published in the annexes to the Belgian Official Journal with name, address, date and place of birth? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u2	Mr President, Mr Vercamer, the reasoning in which the final beneficiaries of the non-profit association are the natural persons who control 25% or more of the legal person's assets is incorrect. The points (a) and (b) of the article quoted by you do indeed apply to non-profit organisations. By the way, they are literally mentioned in it. It is true that the members of the non-profit association are not the final beneficiaries, but the non-profit association can be set up for the benefit of, firstly, the future beneficiaries already designated, the natural person or persons who are the beneficiaries of 25% or more of the non-profit organisation's assets, e.g. those named by name of an orphanage, where they receive 25% or more of the non-profit organisation's assets at the age of majority. Secondly, the natural persons who are the beneficiaries of the non-profit association but have not yet been designated by name. This concerns the abstractally defined group of persons in whose interest the non-profit association was mainly established or is mainly active, for example the children of a certain orphanage. Thirdly, the natural persons or persons who control 25% or more of the power of the non-profit organisation. If the persons who are beneficiaries of a non-profit organisation, i.e. not members, still have to be identified and it is not possible to identify one or more persons as final beneficiaries, it is sufficient to identify the group of persons destined to be beneficiaries of the non-profit organisation. This obligation does not imply that the persons belonging to this group must be identified. To the extent that persons introduce capital into the non-profit organisation and control its use, they should also be identified as final beneficiaries. It is therefore not necessary for the person who controls the non-profit organisation and can represent the non-profit organisation in respect of third parties, but for the person who has a mandate on the board to control or control his contribution, without, however, having the necessary authority to represent the non-profit organisation in respect of third parties. A reference to the annex in the Belgian Official Journal is therefore insufficient. The taxable capacity and the qualification of the amounts of benefits, assets and other liabilities which a non-profit organisation would pay or grant to its driver must always be assessed on the basis of the determination of the Income Tax Code 1992. The mere fact that the driver would or would not be considered the ultimate beneficiary of the non-profit association under the legislation you intend to adopt is of no importance in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We will study that and, if necessary, submit a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u4	Mr. President, Minister, the FPS Finances has removed many locations in recent years. This process started long before you were Minister of Finance. While I thought this long process was over, I learned from a union source that new deletions are scheduled for the coming weeks and months. The provincial offices P&O (Personnel and Organization) are being abolished. Major shifts have taken place in the administration of the FPS Finances. Each staff member had to choose his or her assignment as part of the changeover. Some people, applying near the antennas, believed that they would stay near their home. Clearly, a concentration of services has taken place at central level in Brussels. The officials were therefore trapped. The same applies to the abolition of the general administration of Perception and Recovery, which also has an impact on the public. Minister, do you confirm the removal of P&O and Perception and Recovery sites? If so, how many provincial P&O antennas and how many locations are affected? Where are they located? How many people are involved? What will be the fate of these agents? Is there an end to this process of abolishing local locations in the FPS Finances? Should we expect further deletions in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u5	Mr President, Mr Van Hees, I confirm the information you have just given. This includes nine provincial offices in total. They are located in Hasselt, Bruges, Ghent, Antwerp, Brussels (external services), Namur, Liège, Arlon and Mons. Sixty-two individuals from provincial P&O offices are involved. They will be assigned to the P&O management department and may, if they so wish, be affected by internal mobility to other functions available within the Finance FPS. Reforms will continue to take place due to the decrease in the number of civil servants, the decrease in the budget and the digitalization of processes. While the FPS Finance has developed an infrastructure plan for 2015, the FPS's real estate strategy is aimed at improving the reception of the public and the accommodation of agents, while trying to maintain maximum proximity between its services and the citizen. This leads to a rationalisation of the means used to carry out the tasks of the Finance FPS. By centralizing various services, citizens receive, within a single building, the service to which they are entitled. In addition, electronic applications allow citizens to move less and less. In these times of economy, the FPS Finances will be able to reduce its operating costs by reducing the number of service buildings. Public servants often leave buildings with poor infrastructure and become obsolete. The consolidation will also benefit from interaction with other services, thereby increasing the effectiveness of the Finance FPS. The infrastructure plan is a dynamic data. It is constantly modified and adjusted to meet the opportunities and needs that arise. The size of the FPS Finance requires flexible management of these buildings.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u6	Minister, you mentioned to me the nine provincial P&O offices involved. What about the establishment of the general administration of Perception and Recovery?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u7	They're both together.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u8	Would that be the same thing? I think, on the contrary, that these are two different things.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u9	I'll check it out. It's not clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u10	I hear things that amaze me a little and I disagree with them. For the 62 people who, from what I understand, work for the P&O administration – and not the others who work for the Perception and Recovery administration – you talk about internal mobility opportunities if spaces are available. For these people, such an answer is not very satisfactory as they applied, as part of the changeover, for a position that assured them to be close to home. Here they are sent to Brussels. Internal mobility is a rather cumbersome procedure, which has no immediate effect and is conditional, as you say yourself, since it depends on the availability of places. These people were, in a way, deceived as part of the changeover. They are therefore injured. The consolation of internal mobility appears rather meagre. In general, the removal of these settlements is directly linked, as you say, to the reduction in the number of agents and the savings that are made. For my part, this is a problem since FPS Finance staff should be maintained; indeed, the fight against tax evasion and the service provided to taxpayers seem to me to be essential functions. It is also the only FPS where maintaining agents does not cost money if one considers that the fight against fraud makes it possible to bring it back. When you say that services are concentrated, I think that this phenomenon already existed with localized settlements; tax services of a different nature were grouped in different municipalities. With regard to the obsolete aspect of buildings, I know Charleroi's example. Many settlements have been removed and concentrated on Charleroi, in a completely old building that is not at all at the height of what a SPF should be. Yet there is a very high concentration of agents. Another phenomenon occurs in the lengthening of journeys for the population by adding a problem of road congestion due to the concentration of these services in the city. For example, getting to Charleroi and parking there is very complicated. In terms of mobility, that doesn't make much sense. In terms of service to the population, it is harmful. I don't see many advantages, and I see many disadvantages.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u11	Mr President, Minister, I refer to an article in The Last Hour of February 2. My question relates to the alleged embezzlement of a senior finance official you have suspended. The senior official in question allegedly paid for the disclosure of information to an administrative officer in search of documents relating to an expropriation file. If an interim suspension was immediately taken by your department against the person concerned, it remains that if they were proven, these facts could be such as to undermine the brand image and reputation of the finance department for incorruptibility. Some might therefore think that the case in question is not isolated. Minister, are the information sought by the administrator legally available to the public? If so, what is the procedure for obtaining these documents? In addition to ongoing criminal information, are your services considering an internal investigation to determine the extent of this possible fraudulent practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u12	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, pursuant to Article 315a of the Income Tax Code 1992, where the administration so requires, a taxpayer who prepares or preserves the books and documents the communication of which is prescribed by the said Article shall be obliged to communicate, without displacement, the information material and all the data contained therein, as well as the records of analysis, programming and operation of the computerised system used. The books, documents and data referred to are not limited to those imposed by law or those relating to professional activity. In fact, the administration has access to all the data presumed to be fiscally relevant which are contained in an information medium. With regard to the second question, I would like to point out that the item on cloud computing is on page 16 of my action plan to combat tax fraud. This will therefore be the subject of a bill as soon as possible and is likely to be associated with other measures included in that plan. For the implementation of this item, it is planned to draw on the measures that exist in the Social Penal Code. I will therefore be very careful, as in the Social Penal Code, to ensure that the rights of citizens are safeguarded when external cloud data is captured by the tax authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u13	Minister, I note that the measures will be taken to protect the citizen. I am still hungry about the current procedure, but I imagine that you do not yet have the opportunity to communicate more fully on the subject, with regard to an ongoing investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u14	Question No 8939 by Mr David Clarinval is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u15	Mr President, Minister, established by the Act of 26 December 2013, the purpose of the thematic citizen loan was to attract investment in socio-economic or socially responsible projects. Although the provision has not disappeared from the legislation, it seems that this measure must now be discussed in the past. Indeed, since 2016, the reduced discount rate on this investment product has been abolished as part of the measures to finance the tax shift. Since then, banks seem to have either abandoned or are in the process of marketing this product. However, the measure had managed to attract nearly 2 billion euros in 2014. One of the goals of the measure was to attract some of the money placed on savings accounts. Although the trend is declining, the amount outstanding on savings accounts in Belgium exceeds EUR 250 billion. A report which we have had the opportunity to discuss calls for the abolition of the exemption enjoyed by the first interests of savings accounts in order to make taxation more neutral with regard to the type of investment. The law of 26 December 2013 provides for an evaluation of the thematic citizen loans within two years of the entry into force of the law, i.e. before 1 January 2016. Minister, what is the status of the evaluation of thematic citizen loans as provided for in the Act of 26 December 2013? Will you follow the recommendation of the above-mentioned report and take initiatives to make the tax system more neutral with regard to the type of investment?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u16	Of course, Minister, I will not repeat everything the previous questioner has said. The introduction is, of course, the same, i.e. the thematic public loans since 2013, with a favourable withholding tax regime of 15% on the product at the time. You know, of course, that this withholding tax has now been aligned with forward and cashier accounts and has been raised to 27%. As a result, interest in these people's loans has fallen sharply. According to what I have heard, only two banks would offer the product. After all, there is little difference in return for customers with regard to ordinary cashiers or forward accounts. However, this is a separate regime. There is therefore also a separate supervision and there are separate costs. In that context, I would like to ask my question, since the 2013 law provides for the evaluation procedure, including the preparation of a report. Is it not a good time to carry out this evaluation so that an appropriate decision can be taken, which also takes into account the efficiency and cost-efficiency of the instrument in question?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u17	Mr President, Minister, I asked you recently about citizen loans. These are thematic loans for savers who want a portion of their savings to be used for projects of social interest. This has enabled non-profit organisations and public authorities, sometimes in difficulty, to obtain credit from banking institutions. These loans offered many advantages: the household discount was reduced to 15% instead of the usual 25%; the investor was confident that his money was being used in projects of social interest. This operation was successful with €2 billion raised. Unfortunately today, the tax shift went through that. We went from 15 to 25 per cent. The tax advantage has disappeared. I asked you whether the public loans were concerned and whether the sector was well informed of all the modalities communicated via the various channels. One problem remains: people who have decided to help non-profit organisations or public authorities by making social investments no longer benefit from tax advantages, but must be assured that their money has actually been used as promised in socio-economic projects. The law provided for regular communication of investments to the National Bank of Belgium. The latter refuses to communicate the information transmitted to it by credit institutions to the general public and to those who have subscribed to public loans to make social investments. Minister, will savers know whether their savings have been used in projects for socio-economic or societal purposes? Is it on the agenda that this information is made available to citizens? As the law provides, would it not be possible for you to discuss this matter with the National Bank in order to reassure all citizens who have placed their money in this type of investment?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u18	Colleagues, the Law of 26 December 2013 on various provisions and on thematic citizens' loans offers the possibility for credit institutions and insurance companies operating in Belgium to raise funds to finance eligible projects in the form of thematic citizens' loans. This means, for example, infrastructure works, buildings for various purposes: cultural, social, educational, tourist or sports, hospitals, agricultural or industrial land development, etc. The remuneration of the funds raised under this framework is subject to a favourable tax system. These transactions are subject by law to a number of requirements, the observance of which in particular requires the application of the favourable tax system. Pursuant to Articles 13 to 16 of the Act, the National Bank of Belgium is responsible for monitoring compliance with some of these conditions. Under articles 17 to 20 of the Act, FSMA is in charge of monitoring a set of provisions of the Act, in the context of its usual tasks of protecting consumers of financial products and services and savings in the context of public calls for savings. On 27 January 2015, the BNB adopted a Regulation on periodic information to be provided by credit institutions and insurance undertakings in the context of thematic citizen loans. This Regulation, approved by Royal Decree of 16 March 2015, is accompanied by a circular from the BNB specifying the procedures for reporting the required information. Moreover, I can say that at the moment only two banks are still present or active along the funding side, namely banks that still offer forward bills and/or coupons under the People's Loan Scheme. The banks, on the other hand, have significantly increased the number of financing operations with a People's Loan stamp, i.e. loans granted for financing under the law on appropriate projects, as it is called, than they have raised funds in the same regime. There is therefore no need to be concerned that the banks have provided too little credit with the funds they have raised on the basis of the benefit of withholding tax. Moreover, given that the loans in question have a longer maturity of at least seven years, than the funds raised, there is no risk that funding would be diverted to other purposes in the coming years. However, this analysis must be confirmed by the evaluation that will begin. On this basis, I will be able to comment on the fate to be reserved for this scheme, while considering the increase in the personal discount on public loans and the recommendations of the Group of Experts for the future of the financial sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u19	Mr Minister, I thank you for this information, although unfortunately we have to go fishing to get it. Information may be provided through both control bodies. However, savers want first and foremost to have the certainty, for example through a report, that the National Bank has carried out the check and verified that the funds collected have been used for several projects, which it can present in the form of statistics – whether it is to build a bridge, to replace the lawn of a football field or to open a crèche. In this way, all savers could be reassured.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u20	Minister, thank you for your answer and take note of your reassuring remarks regarding the allocation of the money collected. On the other hand, I am less satisfied with your decision to reduce the furniture discount even before you get the valuation which, moreover, will only begin. If I understand correctly, you don't have a timing yet. It would be wise for it to be communicated to us so that we can re-examine this case and see to what extent we can achieve, possibly through other channels, the objectives of the law of 26 December 2013, which I think are highly commendable and which must be maintained. The aim here is to encourage investment in public utility projects. We will therefore follow this file. I hope that this assessment can be transmitted to us as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am glad that you can confirm that there is no problem with the use of the funds collected and that this has been done correctly. I also welcome your comment that there have been many more loans for this purpose from the banks than funds collected. The question then arises as to whether this special regime is necessary, since the banks also provide these loans without those thematic public loans. On the other hand, if the entire supervisory structure is to be maintained, even though only two banks are still offering this product, and knowing that the costs of the FSMA are very high for the sector compared to other countries, it is a good idea to carry out that evaluation as soon as possible and not to maintain systems that are not or hardly applicable anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u22	Mr. President, there was a misunderstanding. Earlier, the minister gave me the answer to question No 8872, a question which I did not ask, since I asked question No 9189. I would therefore like to turn Question No 8872 into a written question, but if possible receive the answer to Question No 9189, which I have already asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u23	Madam, I will now give you the correct answer. The information sought by the administrator relates to an expropriation file processed at its time by the Mons Building Acquisition Committee, which is currently regionalized. Records prior to the regionalization of all building acquisition committees were sent to the Federal Acquisition Committee archives. Consultation of administrative documents is regulated by the Act of 11 April 1994 on the Publicity of the Administration, which provides for access to documents. Requests must be made officially. In the present case, therefore, a formal request should have been made to the Federal Real Property Acquisition Committee, which would then have considered the extent to which the request could be met. Pursuant to article 29, paragraph 1, of the Code of Criminal Investigation, the administrator of the property services informed the Public Prosecutor's Office of the facts, as soon as they were brought to his attention, and immediately removed the official concerned from the service with a view to a subsequent suspension. By order of the Deputy Head of Heritage Documentation dated September 17, 2015, the grievor was suspended by order in the interest of the service. By letter dated 1 December 2015, the Public Prosecutor's Office informed my department that a case had been opened at the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office. However, pursuant to Article 81, § 3 of the Royal Decree of 2 October 1937 on the status of State agents, criminal proceedings are suspended in disciplinary proceedings. The latter may not resume until the administration becomes aware of the final decision taken at the criminal level. Within the framework of internal control, management will review the measures to be implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u24	Minister, thank you for that answer. Other elements had been mentioned, and I welcome the fact that an internal investigation will be initiated once the criminal proceedings are completed. Indeed, it should be checked that this is not the tip of the iceberg. Could other officials have been forced to have the same practices as the grievor in question? According to the information available to me, the grievor's actions were discovered by chance. A citizen who introduced a file had heard that payments could be useful in advancing the case. This citizen would have complained to your strategic cell. This leaves us thinking and shows the importance of conducting an internal investigation. This is about the credibility of the entire department.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u25	Article 2, § 1, 13° of the Income Tax Code contains the definition of a legal arrangement. To that definition, Article 2, § 1, 13° provides for a number of exceptions. This includes Article 2, § 13, which provides for what is a legal arrangement: "An entity which is not an institution referred to in a and b and is exclusively dedicated to the operations, management and investment of funds, collected to grant statutory and supplementary pensions or the management of employee participations in the financing of their undertaking or of the group to which it belongs'. In the United Kingdom, trusts that manage the personal pension plans, in particular the assets and premiums, exist within the trusts of their members. In the event of events such as retirement, reaching a certain age, disability or death, the trust will pay a benefit. Members may also request a part or a whole of their accumulated assets. These trusts are addressed to a broad public and have not been established in the context of the management of only one personal property. Furthermore, these personal pension plans must comply with a number of statutory requirements. Can you confirm that in the circumstances outlined above, these trusts can be considered as an entity dedicated to the management and investment of funds collected to grant supplementary pensions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u26	Indeed, the tax assessment system applicable to legal arrangements provides for an exception for entities that focus exclusively on transactions in the management and investment of funds, collected in order to grant statutory and supplementary pensions. Those entities shall not be considered as legal arrangements. Unfortunately, on the basis of the information you have just provided, it is not possible to determine whether the trusts in question focus exclusively on the management and investment of funds, collected to grant legal and supplementary pensions. It is merely a fact-finding exercise that can provide legal certainty as to whether these trusts are indeed committed to such transactions, in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u27	I thank the Minister for his reply. You emphasise the word "only', although I do not immediately find that in the legislation. I'll look into it further. The companies in question must therefore ask the administration. There is no general answer, only a specific answer per company.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u28	Mr.President, Minister, during the parliamentary re-entry in October 2014, a table was presented to parliamentarians, incorporating budgetary measures for the years 2015 and beyond. These include the modification of the conditions for benefiting from the reduced VAT rate for renovation. This rate of 6% would no longer apply only to dwellings over 10 years of age and not more than 5 years of age. This measure involved an estimated revenue of €190 million. The measure was scheduled to come into force on January 1, 2016; in any event, this was announced in a press release published on December 4, 2015 on the FPS Finance website. However, on 20 January 2016 the FPS Finances published a communication stating that: "The new provision was originally to enter into force from 1 January 2016. However, it has not yet been published in the Belgian Moniteur. It will enter into force on the 10th day after its publication in the Moniteur belge. We will inform you of the exact date of entry into force of this provision as soon as it becomes known." The annex to the FPS Finance news release states that "the administration will soon publish a more complete comment." Minister, when will the amendment of the conditions to benefit from the reduced rate of VAT for renovation be published in the Monitor? How do you explain the delay in publication? When will the full commentary announced by the FPS Finances be published?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u29	Mr Dispa, the Royal Decree of 26 January 2016 amending the length of service of a dwelling for the application of the VAT rate of 6% for renovation works was published in the Moniteur on 2 February 2016. Accordingly, this amendment came into force on February 12, 2016. The delay in this publication is mainly due to the fact that this royal decree also includes a measure on assistive dogs whose function is to assist persons with disabilities or the sick. In order to follow the opinion of the Council of State dated 24 December 2015, the date of entry into force of the Royal Decree, scheduled for 1 January 2016, had to be postponed as it was not possible to make the necessary amendments within that period. For the full implementation of these measures, publication in the Monitor was linked to the finalization and publication of administrative comments. As a result, the full administrative commentary was published in the form of a decision ET 129.030/3 of February 2, 2016 on the Fisconet tax database on February 3, 2016. The same was true for decision ET 128,840 concerning assistive dogs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u30	Minister, between the time the question was introduced and the time of the answer, the situation has changed and I welcome it. I'm glad to hear that the delay has been resolved. Your explanation is quite understandable because these measures on assistive dogs are also very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u31	Mr President, I will allow myself to speak for my colleague Vanden Burre, who sits in the Committee on the Economy, by integrating his concerns into my question. Minister, in an interview with the Tijd, reported by the Belga agency on 29 January, you would declare that you do not see the future of Belfius in foreign hands. Bravo! It's a nice development on your part. In any case, you made a speech clearer than the one we heard earlier. However, you did not exclude the bank from entering the stock exchange, which you consider to be the last of the possibilities for Belfius. In the meantime, its annual results have been published. They seem pretty good in terms of dividends announced for the Belgian State. However, as ecologists, we want to maintain the Belgian bank's anchor and would like to point out that, as the state owns 100% of the bank, it must be made an exemplary bank in terms of investment sustainability, support for SMEs and, therefore, the real economy as well as local authorities. Minister, does this opportunity to take stock reflect a personal opinion or does it reflect the government's perspective? What do you think would be the advantages and disadvantages? What would be the deadlines and conditions, particularly with regard to the complex relations with Dexia SA? Is it not appropriate, on the contrary, to ensure that Belfius is maintained as a 100 % public bank and to use this situation to influence its model in order to make it more sustainable and robust, as well as to give greater support to the Belgian economy, particularly to SMEs? That was the content of my colleague Vanden Burre's question, to whom I will give your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u32	At present, no decision has been taken within the government on the privatisation of Belfius. All options are open. However, I am convinced that not only the financial aspects but also the social and societal aspects must be taken into account when making a decision on this matter. In that context, a national solution might be preferable. It is in this sense that I spoke in the interview to which you refer. The same framework could also be decisive in deciding what share of Belfius will eventually be privatized. This is not currently on the agenda, I repeat. No fundamental discussion has yet taken place in this regard within the government. If you wish, as an academic reflection exercise, I can explore with you all the pros and cons of an introduction to the stock exchange as well as other possibilities of privatization. I have them here on paper and I can give you these 3 pages rather than going through them in detail, which would take too long. I'll keep them at your disposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u33	All options are therefore open. It's both interesting and problematic. I think any company would benefit from having a five- or ten-year vision to plan its development and guide its work. The question remains as to the future of Belfius since the establishment of the government is: is it a matter of making the bride as beautiful as possible to sell it at the best price or of keeping it in the federal public service in order to make it something original and in support of the real economy? The fact that you do not choose any option is a real handicap for the future of the bank. You run test balloons regularly. This makes it possible to have space in the media and to reflect on the advantages and disadvantages of an entry into the stock exchange, but I do not think this is desirable in relation to the management and future of the bank. We need to take a much clearer option. The option we prefer, as ecologists, is to maintain in the public sphere accompanied by a development linked to this 100% public membership: support for local authorities (in line with what was Crédit Communal), support for SMEs who need it. A different banking model that can influence other banks: more sustainable, more ethical, respectful of workers. That's where we're waiting for you. I have already asked you about this and will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u34	Minister, there have recently been a number of problems in companies with regard to tax control 2012. The recurring point of discussion is the percentage of R&D time spent by companies for the knowledge workers. After all, they are largely exempt from corporate withholding tax. Fiscal auditors ask companies to reduce the time spent linearly over all staff and over several years by 10 to 20% because they consider that, for example, the reporting and processing of research results are not research and development. As a professor, you yourself have done scientific research, and you also know, of course, that the processing of data is at the heart of the research. Statistics are processing data to my knowledge. That is usually one of the essential elements of an investigation. I've done that myself for a while. Also the departments of regulatory affairs or research management are regularly rejected and also about contract research, carried out at the request of customers and companies, is difficult to do. The corporate tax subsidy for researchers from master level in companies is non-selective state aid. It applies to all businesses and does not constitute specific aid for a particular sector. This implies that the application should be as uniform as possible in order not to create distortions of competition through regional or personal interpretations of the measure in the various control centres or by the various auditors. In practice, regional differences appear to exist. Inspectors from one region apply different standards and are stricter than auditors from another region. I have the following questions, Minister. Firstly, do you recognise the problem of spending time on tax controls? Do you have any figures on the number of disputes in this respect? Secondly, I note that the rules are not applied uniformly. How do you interpret the use of time spent by knowledge workers? How broad or restrictive can it be applied? In what way will you ensure a level playing field for all the companies involved, regardless of the region and the BBI office to which they belong?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u35	Mr President, Mr Dedecker, in the context of the control actions organized by the General Administration of Taxation regarding compliance with the legal provisions on the partial exemption from the transfer of company advance tax, the question of procrastination of the actual time spent on research and development in the framework of a research or development programme or project is certainly one of the issues to be verified. The remuneration of researchers is only eligible for the R&D exemption in relation to this proratation. What activities and what time researchers and scientific staff effectively spend on research and development is a fact in itself. The administrative and office activities of researchers and scientific staff who contribute directly to the research or development projects or programmes and which take place solely for the benefit of those projects or programmes shall be deemed to be part of the actual projects and programmes. It is the employer who must provide proof of the effective time spent on research and development. The employer may provide such proof by all means of common law, except the oath. For this purpose, the employer may, for example, submit timesheets drawn up by the researchers or the scientific staff to account for their performance. He can also do this on the basis of other evidence-based elements which clearly show the time spent by researchers or scientific staff on research or development projects. For each centrally organised control action, a mandatory control approach is developed by the administration. This approach, as well as the documentation to which it may be referred, is intended to ensure the greatest possible uniformity. For the specific cases envisaged in the question and for which the control approach would deviate from the uniformity envisaged, I am prepared to have my services examine this matter. To this end, it is sufficient to provide me with the necessary identification information from the taxable person concerned. Apart from these control actions, the General Administration of the Special Tax Inspectorate has also carried out several investigations into possible abuses of the legal provisions on the partial exemption from the transfer of company withholding tax. These studies were limited to a total of five cases and are treated within the same BBI Directorate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u36	Mr Minister, tackling abuse is obviously one of the objectives of the fight against fraud, and it seems clear to me that we are keeping a close eye on these matters. I would also like to respond to the invitation to provide some contact details, I will certainly do so. However, I would like to point out that in one of these cases, in order to obtain proof, BELSPO has been explicitly consulted. That is an instance that has some experience and which exudes some solidity and reliability. BELSPO was apparently of a different opinion there than the BBI official. So we must be careful and ensure that it is interpreted in the same way everywhere, that there is uniformity, that there is no distortion of competition between Ghent and Antwerp, to name just two areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u37	Mr President, Mr Minister, the Royal Decree of 14 December 2015 introducing a reduced rate for school buildings, states in its Article 1 that "The reduced rate of 6% applies to deliveries of school buildings intended for school, university, (...), real estate work within the meaning of Article (...), the leasing of buildings or leasing of real estate. This Order comes into force on January 1, 2016. The Minister who has the powers of Finance shall be responsible for the execution of this Order." This royal decree was confirmed by the law of 26 December 2015. The provision raises questions as to its application in the field when the building is used only in part for school use. I would like to know the applicable legislation when the other part of the building is rented to, for example, a youth movement. Is the reduced VAT rate applicable to buildings of which only part is used for school purposes? What is the rate applicable to buildings made available to youth movements? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u38	Mr President, Minister, my question concerns the same royal decree, but from a different angle. The Royal Decree of 14 December 2015 introduces a reduced rate for school buildings, which we welcome, but I wonder, however, about the legal soundness of the scheme which was taken by the government and confirmed by the law of 26 December 2015. Indeed, both the Finance Inspectorate and the Council of State pointed out in the projects that you had submitted to them the need for VAT to act in accordance with the European directives, which means that the reduced rates can only apply to supplies of goods and services belonging to the categories listed in Annex III to Directive 2006/112. Among the items listed in this annex, the items which seem to be in line with the regulations on school buildings actually concern the delivery, construction, renovation and conversion of housing provided under social policy. The Council of State and the Finance Inspectorate were therefore concerned that school buildings do not seem to fall very clearly within these categories. Furthermore, it is well known that the Court of Justice has a very restrictive interpretation of these categories, hence the concern that I wanted to relay to you, since the Council of State has concluded from these provisions that the draft decree, to be implemented, must necessarily be subject to the procedure referred to in Directive 2006/112. Mr Minister, have you received a positive opinion from the European authorities on the introduction of this reduced rate for school buildings? If so, can you possibly communicate it to me?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u39	Mr President, my fellow Members have already explained a few things. The federal government decided in October 2015 to reduce the value added tax on school construction from 21% to 6% from 1 January 2016. The Court of Auditors has formulated a number of critical notes in its reports. Mr Dispa has already referred to the European directive. There are therefore a number of questions, in particular because the regions already rely on this reduced VAT. In this context, my fellow Members have already questioned the competent education minister in the Flemish Parliament. Has there been a reasoned notification procedure for the reduced VAT rate to the European Commission? If so, has the European Commission already responded and what is the answer? Can the European Commission recite our country even without a notification procedure? What if the answer to the notification is negative or if the European Commission has another way of replying to the measure? Is the loss of VAT revenue (21/6 %) recovered? In the meantime, are there any new estimates of the cost or proceeds of this measure for the federal budget, given the criticism of the Court of Auditors? After all, there was an estimate of a surplus yield that the Court of Auditors thought was rather voluntaristic, perhaps that was a reason for you to reconsider this. If so, I'd like to take note of that update.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, the European VAT rules do not provide anywhere that the services of the European Commission must be consulted by the Member States concerned, prior to the introduction of a reduced VAT rate for school buildings. Nor does it provide for the Commission services to formulate an opinion on this matter on their own initiative. Consequently, no opinion has been received from the services of the European Commission on this matter. As with all the provisions of the Belgian VAT regulation, there is always the possibility that the European Commission services may initiate a procedure of default if they consider that a provision would not fully comply with the provisions of the European VAT regulation. In the worst case scenario, such a procedure may result in a judgment by the Court of Justice of the European Union if that court considers that the views of the services of the European Commission would indeed be legally justified. In the event of such a conviction, a Member State is obliged to transfer an additional amount of VAT to the EU institutions as part of the so-called own resources of the European Union. This amount amounts to 0.3% of the VAT revenue. In addition, national VAT regulations will need to be adapted in the future. The past VAT revenue is not recovered accordingly from the taxable persons concerned. Indeed, for the past, those taxpayers have correctly applied the national VAT regulation applicable to them. The budgetary impact of the federal government's measure was not recalculated in function of the Court of Auditors' observations. Since 1 January 2016, 6% VAT is payable on buildings used mainly by a school or university which the latter has built, acquired or rented in order to provide education exempted on the basis of Article 44 of the VAT Code. Where such a building is intended for several uses, including teaching, it cannot be regarded as a school building within the meaning of heading XL of Table A of the Annex to Royal Decree No 20 on the VAT rate, provided that it is used primarily for the exemption of an exempt education. In other words, it is imperative that the exemption from exempt education is the main assignment of the building. The nature of the use other than the provision of education is irrelevant. Buildings exclusively made available to youth movements are not covered by the new section XL mentioned above. Real estate works carried out on such buildings are therefore subject to the standard rate of 21%. Simple cleaning cannot benefit from the reduced rate of 6%. This refers to routine housekeeping work aimed at the cleanliness of the building, such as the regular cleaning of buildings, the dust removal of carpets, the polishing of parquet floors and the washing of windows. As for the cleaning work after the worksites relating to a school building, they go beyond simple cleaning in the sense that they constitute the terminal phase of the worksite. They therefore also benefit from the reduced rate of 6%. The same applies to works relating to lawns or fences, provided that they are located on the land on which a school building has been built. Furthermore, given that a school building may consist of several parts of buildings or of several separate buildings, which form a functional unit, the reduced rate of 6% is also applicable to work on a concierge in a school building. For further developments, which fall outside the scope of an answer to an oral question, I should like to inform members that the bodies concerned by this measure can usefully refer to Administrative Decision 129.073 of 26 January 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u41	Minister, thank you for being lost in these household and cleaning details and for giving a major answer, even if it is complicated, to the use of buildings. The administrative decision you have just set out at the end of your response will be useful to all organizations in determining whether or not they fall under the reduced VAT rate conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u42	Mr Minister, I have heard in your reply a reassuring element, even if it is a confirmation: if the Commission were to question the reduced VAT rate, the beneficiaries would not have to repay the amounts that would not have been paid. For the rest, I take note of your explanations. I note that you have not had any contact with the Commission services, so that, in my opinion, there is still some uncertainty. I hope that you will not be caught up in this matter by the European Union, as is sometimes the case in other matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation and the information on schools that are being used and used multiple times. I think this is relevant, the number of schools deployed in this way is only increasing. I understand that you have not applied and have not been consulted by the European Commission for the time being. This means that there is a certain degree of uncertainty surrounding this measure. I therefore wonder whether it is not better to consult actively or to wait for any criticism. I think it's a good measure. In this respect, we have quite a few steps to take in all parts of the country, and a lot of schools need to be built. However, I think that the Court of Auditors' criticism of the budgetary assessment seems appropriate. I regret that you do not yet have any new figures available. That may be one of the factors which makes budgetary control even more difficult........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ It is a concern that lives widely in our committee, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u44	Mr Minister, the European Commission has adopted three decisions on port taxation, which concern France, Belgium and the Netherlands. The Commission asks these three countries to review the tax regime applied to ports as it considers that the latter is too favourable and can be considered as State aid. In the case of Belgium, the Commission recommends that ports should be subject to corporate tax rather than tax on legal persons, as is currently the case. This decision follows a letter sent by the Commission on 9 July 2014, which, in its view, had not received a satisfactory response. Minister, have you been aware of the European Commission's decision on port taxation? What steps do you intend to take to implement this decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u45	Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to thank my colleague and yourself for agreeing to put this question to the vote. We discussed this subject at length when the government decided to tax intercommunals. We pointed out at the time that the ports had been removed from this taxation. We wondered why, from the moment we decided to tax all the intercommunals, the ports had benefited from this particular protection. We had our little idea. In fact, we had never received an answer to that question. It appears that this decision has been caught up. As my colleague has said, the Commission has asked France and Belgium to adapt the legislation so that the ports, "public or private" – which I find strange, but it is the way of privatization and ultra-liberalism to excess – pay corporate taxes on their economic activity according to the same regime as companies. Minister, my question is similar to that of my colleague. What follow-up do you intend to give to the European Commission's proposals on the tax regime applicable to ports?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u46	Gentlemen, the notification from the European Commission was received by Belgium on 25 January 2016. My firm and I have been informed of this decision on the taxation of ports in Belgium. The problem of ports raised by the European Commission is followed by several different departments: the Mobility and Transport FPS, the Economy FPS and the Finance FPS. Concertation meetings with the Regions, ports and the various departments concerned of our federal government are and have been organized. It is up to Belgium to demonstrate that State aid measures can be considered compatible with the internal market. If the Commission does not accept this demonstration, Belgium will be obliged to take measures to adapt its tax legislation so that the economic activities of ports no longer constitute an incompatibility with the internal market.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u47	Minister, your answer is very laconic. I understand that there is a need for consultation, particularly between the services concerned, but I understand from your reply that you still believe that the demonstration of the compatibility of the port regime with the provisions of the internal market can be made. I think that's the way you're going to go; that's what I'm taking from your answer. In that case, we will see what the Commission's attitude will be. As far as I am concerned, I remain a little sceptical, because I believe that the Commission's decisions are clear and ill-suited to arguments such as those you are preparing. But the future will tell us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u48	Minister, thank you for your answer. If I understand correctly, you are trying with the federated entities and all those involved, namely the Economy and Transport, to demonstrate that this exemption for ports should not be considered as State aid. You're going this way. I take note. We will see what the Commission's position is and if you can convince them. I regret that you did not do the same for our intercommunals, that you did not argue that this might not be considered State aid. We'll wait and come back. The rest of the next episode!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u49	After the adjustment we made in December through the programme law, there is some discussion in the specialized tax press. What about the benefits that are granted? Are they taxed or not? In particular, one can think of a company car. After all, we read that all fees, premiums and benefits of any kind are exempt. With could say, someone who gets a company car, it's not imaginary with a flexiloon...But it could lead to jobs being split infinitely with tax benefits and so on. The interpretation and your answer is not unimportant to the practice. Is it enough to refer to the initial pleading of the concept of flexiloon, a concept which no longer exists because we have replaced the text? Or is there indeed a wider exemption because of the last version of the text which is actually quite unambiguous? Or is there going to be an adjustment on the part of the government to avoid the unintentional effect of the exemption of a company car, for example? That is at the heart of the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u50	Mr Deseyn, Article 38, § 1, paragraph 1, of the Income Tax Code, as amended by the Programme Act of 26 December 2015, exempts remuneration paid or granted under the Flexi Job Agreement. The definition of such remuneration should be based on the social provisions which clearly state that they only cover flexi-loon and flexi-vacation fees. All social benefits excluded from the concept of pay are excluded, including allowances subject to a special contribution such as benefits in respect of commercial vehicles. The justification for this is given in the references referred to in Article 3 No. In addition, the Commission considers that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (OJ L 347,
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u51	I think that the answer is important for practice because it is about the passage 'all allowances, premiums and benefits'. You say that reference should be made to another legal basis in order to interpret that correctly, of which you are aware.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u52	Minister, local authorities only get one update per year from the General Administration of the Patrimonium Documentation, as regards the cadastral situation. Because they get those updates with fairly long intervals, they are never really sure of the real, actual cadastral situation. The strange thing is that there is a tool, the notaries have a great deal of credit for it themselves, however, which the local authorities do not have at their disposal. That is quite annoying and that makes it difficult to do good quality work at municipal level. In Flanders they work through the Flemish service integrator, but there is some discussion about permissions to be granted, including the services that fall within your competence, hence my questions. Is the tool already operational in terms of the coordination structure for the heritage documentation? When will local authorities have full access to the latest up-to-date data? What's the problem with the authorization? The VVSG also has a file on this. So the problem is alive, at different levels. Is that authorisation necessary at all in order to gain access to the most recent cadastral data? I believe that this is a question of federalism of cooperation, extended to the local authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u53	Mr Deseyn, the coordination structure for heritage information, the CSPI, is already operational. The first meeting of the Management Board took place on 28 January. Within the CSPI, it is indeed possible to examine how local authorities can access the most recent cadastral data. The management board of the CSPI will, simultaneously in all regions, further assess the exact needs of the cities and municipalities in terms of cadastral data and the development of the technical modalities. The debate on the authorisation of the municipalities is no longer pending. The Royal Decree of 20 September 2002 does not affect the application of the privacy regulation, which provides that any electronic communication of the personal data by the FPS Finance requires a principal authorisation of the Sectoral Committee for the Federal Government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u54	In practice, certain notaries acting out of office or from a different file representation are still given slightly easier access than local authorities who will not receive the latest up-to-date information every day because they need to be systematically authorised. It's a good thing they're talking about it. Several local authorities point out that they are extremely bored with the situation because they can never give a good answer, because they fear that the file was drawn up with outdated data. There are still problems, but I remember that there has been a coordination meeting recently and that there should be no more objections. However, it is rather problematic that full access is not available and that a systematic authorisation is needed. It is said that there is confidence in the municipalities. To do good work, we need to trust each other and give each other full access with a continuous authorisation. I know it's not an obvious file, but I'm making a warm appeal to the Minister to be for the sake of the local authorities. They are in a stalemate and the citizen is not served by the fact that documents are made on the basis of wrong information. This is a particularly painful situation for the government in general. It would be a pity if the federal government were not able to make the data available in an appropriate way. It's a fairly layered problem, but it's well outlined. Now the coordination body can follow that up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u55	Minister, we have already had the opportunity to talk about the activities of high frequency trading firms (HFTs) that raise many fears and questions about international financial markets. This poses a considerable risk to their integrity and stability. It is therefore necessary to be vigilant about this technological and financial innovation. In order to achieve this, it should be noted that the control of high-frequency trading activities requires specific and precise skills because of their technicality. I am thinking of mathematicians or computer scientists. In this context, it would seem appropriate to provide the FSMA with the human, technological and financial resources necessary for effective monitoring. With this in mind, we could envisage the creation of a unit that would focus solely on these activities. It appears, moreover, that France has taken the step. Given the importance of this issue, does the FSMA have a cell dedicated exclusively to the control of the THF? If this is not the case, does it not seem appropriate to create one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u56	Mr Mathot, in his capacity as supervisory authority for the financial sector, FSMA's mission is, in particular, to ensure the supervision of financial markets. To this end, it has a service dedicated to this task, in particular the detection of potential indicators of abuse. In this context, the financial market surveillance service uses the means of detection itself and information from financial institutions, market operators or other supervisory authorities. FSMA has in particular concluded a cooperation agreement with the Autorité des marchés financiers en France, allowing it to use certain instruments developed by the Autorité des marchés financiers in France. FSMA controls the markets in real time, so-called "T-control" and also has all orders placed on Euronext and all transactions on the day after the transaction. This information is detailed in the microsecond – allowing FSMA to analyze market movements. In addition, as part of its monitoring, it collaborates with Euronext's supervisory services, which also detect and transmit market abuse behaviour. FSMA is also working with the authorities of other countries involved in the Euronext Joint Platform, in particular in the development of new surveillance tools. On the other hand, it is important to note that, compared to neighbouring markets, the Belgian market is smaller and less liquid. Less liquid markets are less conducive to high-frequency trading. Given the size of the Belgian market, the means used by FSMA are sufficient to enable it to analyse market movements and to detect, where appropriate, indications of potential market abuse.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u57	Minister, thank you for your answers. I take note of the fact that, in your opinion, there is no risk.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u58	What does that mean?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u59	I understand that the FSMA is sufficiently equipped and should not have a specific cell. Let us hope that this will be enough if we are faced with problems!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u60	Minister, I will obviously not recall the importance of the research and development (R&D) sector in our economy. Since Belgium has never produced oil and no longer has coal, it is an essential activity for us. There are three main tax incentives for R&D. This includes the exemption from the professional discount for researchers, the Research Tax Credit (IRC) and the deduction of patent revenues. In 2011, the cost for public finances of these three measures amounted to EUR 1.1 billion. In several countries, particularly in France, some stakeholders have expressed concern about the way in which this financial manna was allocated between the various economic operators. In this way, it seems that the latter mainly benefits the large multinationals. Do we agree: I do not claim that the latter should not engage in R&D, but should not target aid? In this regard, I would like to point out that a large part of our economic activity is based on SMEs. Do we have specific studies, indicating who is benefiting most of the 1.1 billion? Which business lines benefit most from these three tax measures? Are we also multinationals?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u61	Mr Mathot, the tax administration has relied on sufficiently representative data from the last year available. This is the 2013 tax year for measures such as the patent deduction and the ISOC tax credit. With regard to the provisions relating to the exemption from payment of the professional discount in terms of R&D, data for the 2013 revenue year were also withheld. This shows that the gross cost of the measures to which you refer amounts to EUR 1.187 billion. Divided by type of measure, these €696 million relate to the exemption from payment of the professional discount, €346 million to the patent deduction and €145 million to tax credits. An overview of these measures by activity codes and certainly by type of business is a work that would take too much time and so I cannot go further in my answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u62	Minister, thank you for your answer. Even if it takes time, can we get the information?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u63	By activity codes, the FPS Finance confirms to me that this is possible. On the other hand, by type of business, it will certainly take a lot of time. It seems that it is quite complicated to collect the figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u64	How long could it take? For the sector, we should be informed fairly quickly, but by type of company, will it be more complicated?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u65	It will be complicated and it will take time. Unfortunately, I cannot specify a deadline – three months, six months?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u66	Your reviendrai verse vous.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u67	Certainly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u68	Question No 9151 by Mr Benoît Piedboeuf is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u69	Mr. President, I'll make you a confession. I've never held a 500-euro note in my hand. I don't know what it looks like and what it's for. Minister, I've already asked you about this. You gave me a written answer, on the basis of which I have some additional information to ask you. Large bills are often used to launder dirty money. This is what several police services in charge of combating financial crime are denouncing. This is why governments are controlling their flows. Britain prohibits its foreign exchange offices from accepting or providing 500 euro banknotes. In Canada, the $1,000 Canadian dollar cuts have been eliminated. In 2012, Italy banned cash transactions of more than 1,000 euros between individuals. Other States have limited the maximum amount of cash transactions. That is the case with our country. Strange phenomena can happen with these big cuts. Thus, according to information from the Italian daily La Repubblica reported by the French press, Italians have paid 37 billion euros net in denominations of 500 euros since 2010, eight times more than what Italian banks have put into circulation via 500 euros banknotes. It is therefore legitimate to question the usefulness of this 500 euro note, which is the largest or almost most important denomination in the world. It is prized by traffickers of all kinds by its small size to the point of being redeemed at amounts higher than monetary value. It seems to me that it would be useful to consider its outright abolition and to advocate this abolition at European level. Minister, how many EUR 500 banknotes have been put into circulation in Belgium over the last five years? How many times, on an annual average, are these notes controlled by the National Bank as it regularly checks them? What about the other cuts? What is the body responsible for printing these notes? What is the method of remuneration for this printing operation? What is the difference in remuneration for the printing of banknotes according to their different values? Can it be said that the printing of large denominations, such as the 500 euro banknotes, is more profitable for the bodies responsible for their printing? Is the use of these banknotes subject to special surveillance, particularly in the context of the fight against money laundering? Has there been, for example, a significant influx of these banknotes into the banking and economic system, as in Italy? As the minister in charge of combating tax fraud, what is your position on the risk of using euro 500 banknotes in the context of money laundering? Would it not be appropriate, as other countries have done, to adopt more restrictive legislation on their use? Could Belgium take the decision not to issue these banknotes anymore and to encourage the use of smaller denominations and electronic transactions? Is this discussion under way at European level? Are you prepared, if any, to take the initiative? What position do you stand for on behalf of Belgium? What is the opinion of the European Central Bank on the subject and that of the National Bank of Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u70	Minister, there are more than 600 million 500 euro banknotes in circulation with a total value of more than EUR 300 billion. We all know that they are hardly eligible or suitable for normal payments. In most shops, these bills are simply not accepted. The intelligence services and Europol have strong indications that the majority of these 500 euro notes are in criminal circuits. Since a million euros in denominations of 500 weigh just over two kilos, this is of course ideal for large illegal cash transports. After many years of opposition from the European Central Bank, ECB President Mario Draghi recently declared that he was considering the abolition of the most expensive euro banknote. However, no decision has yet been taken. By abolishing these notes, organised crime and white-collar crime can be given a serious blow, we think. At the same time, citizens with legitimate 500 euro banknotes can be protected through transitional arrangements. Minister, I would like to know what your position is and the position of this government, and what you will do to convince Europe to abolish the 500 euro notes?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u71	Minister, I will not repeat what my two previous colleagues have said. The questions are more or less identical. What is Belgium's position with regard to this desire to abolish the 500 euro note? Is there any idea of the timing that the ECB could take to remove it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u72	Colleagues, the number of euro 500 banknotes in circulation by the National Bank of Belgium rose from around 10 million in 2010 to just over 6 million in 2015. The euro 500 banknote returns on average 0.31 times a year to the National Bank against a return rate of 1.29 for all banknotes. Given the migration of euro banknotes between countries, the number of banknotes actually circulating in Belgium cannot be calculated. The Eurosystem, consisting of the European Central Bank and the central banks of the euro area member countries, is responsible for organising the printing of euro banknotes. It is entrusted either to private printing works or to central banks which have a printing office. The distribution between the central banks which use the market for the printing of banknotes and those which have their own printing is based on their respective share in the capital of the European Central Bank. The cost price of each denomination depends on its technical characteristics, such as size, safety signs, etc., but also on the number of banknotes printed. Belgian legislation provides for limitations on the use of cash in certain circumstances. Thus, the Whitening Act of 11 January 1993 stipulates that the sale price of real estate may be paid only by means of a transfer or cheque. In addition, the price of a sale by a trader of one or more goods and one or more services provided by a service provider for an amount of EUR 3 000 or more may be paid in cash only for an amount not exceeding 10 % of the price of the sale or provision of services and provided that this amount is not more than EUR 3 000. The National Bank of Belgium also limits the number of transactions to its public offices. Individuals can exchange notes for up to 3000 euros per month. In each transaction, the identity of the customer is also strictly checked. Unlike Italy, there is no significant influx of 500 euro denominations in Belgium. The number of denominations of 500 euro transferred by financial institutions to the National Bank of Belgium has even decreased. The decision whether or not to issue a denomination falls within the competence of the Governing Council of the European Central Bank. It has taken a neutral position with regard to the use of paper or electronic means of payment. Their use depends on the choice of their user, i.e. economic actors. The Governing Council of the ECB, of which the Governor of our National Bank is a member, is currently analysing the desirability of issuing euro 500 banknotes again. Personally, I have no problem with removing these tickets.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u73	Minister, I'll start with the end. Since you have no problem with removing the 500 euro notes, I ask you a little more. Be an advocate of this abolition in the dialogue with the Governor of the National Bank, who is currently discussing it with all the governors of national banks within the ECB. The reasons are set out in the context of my question, and I find, in addition, that the use of these banknotes is only decreasing in Belgium. Each has more traceable electronic means of payment for its large transactions. These means are therefore tools for identifying possible frauds, which are much more effective than these notes. I hope that an agreement will be reached, as soon as possible, on their abolition within the framework of the European Monetary System.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u74	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Despite your statements according to which it is up to the governors of the national banks to decide on this, and the fact that the Belgian governor is investigating that piste, it is nevertheless important that the Belgian Finance Minister personally says that the 500 euro notes should be abolished. The pressure of the representatives of the people on the National Bank of Belgium is also important.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u75	Minister, you say that in 2010 there were ten million 500 euro banknotes in circulation and, in 2015, six million. That would mean that there would be "only" EUR 3 billion in circulation. You said the bank notes come back 31 times a year. How can the use of these EUR 500 banknotes be recorded? The same ticket can be used several times. I would like to know the importance of these EUR 500 banknotes and the overall financial flow. It is by knowing this that one can position oneself and know whether or not it is important to be for or against the abolition of these 500 euro banknotes. Basically, I am in favour of abolishing them, but I would be interested to know whether their use is important, and the fraud that may result from it is proportional. I take note of the fact that you are neutral in this matter. You're waiting to see what's going to happen. We might have preferred to go towards deletion, but we would have wanted to know what this amount of tickets represents on the market.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u76	Mr President, I would like to turn my questions Nos 9452, 9453 and 9481 into written questions, and my question No. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u77	Mr President, Minister, at the meeting of the Committee on External Relations on 19 January 2016, we were informed that, on the basis of the multilateral agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information, automatic exchanges with Jersey will apply from 1 January 2017 for revenue 2016, without any additional agreement or agreement being required to ensure that this automatic exchange is legally effective with Jersey. This position was confirmed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs at the committee on 27 January 2016. Minister, could you confirm to me whether this same logic applies to the automatic exchange of information with Bermuda, Aruba, Guernsey Island, the Cayman Islands and the Cook Islands, which have also joined the multilateral agreement on automatic exchange of information? Although treaties for the exchange of information signed with those States were being ratified, those treaties provided only for the exchange of information on request. If, on the contrary, a supplementary agreement were to be concluded with those five territories, what would be the reasons? Would it be bilateral or would it be at European Union level? Do you confirm that the Belgian Government's intention is to conclude this agreement as soon as possible in order to make these exchanges operational from the date mentioned by these territories upon their accession to the multilateral agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u78	Mr Crusnière, the automatic exchange of financial account information will be implemented with respect to other third-party jurisdictions on the basis of the multilateral agreement between competent authorities, signed in Berlin in October 2014. The use of the multilateral agreement avoids the need to conclude many bilateral agreements and thus reduces the costs associated with the establishment of the trading mechanism. In accordance with the multilateral agreement, my administration has transmitted to the secretariat of the coordinating body the list of third-party courts in respect of which Belgium intends the agreement to take effect. In this regard, I can confirm that Aruba, Bermuda, Jersey, Guernsey, the Cayman Islands and the Cook Islands are territories included in this list. This list includes all jurisdictions that have committed themselves to applying, through the multilateral agreement, the common standard of reporting as early as 2016 or 2017. The secretariat of the coordinating body will keep and publish on the OECD website the list of competent authorities which have signed the agreement and between which the agreement has taken effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u79	When will the publication take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u80	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u81	Question No 9212 by Mr Benoît Piedboeuf is transformed into a written question. Question No 9229 by Mr Benoît Dispa is postponed. Question No 9235 by Mr Alain Mathot is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u82	Minister, Selor has announced the launch of a large-scale legal recruitment campaign for the FPS Finances. Meanwhile, I saw that there was also a recruitment of economists. In concrete terms, 100 posts will be filled for the various administrations, including customs and excise duties, the fight against social fraud and property documentation. Clearly, this massive recruitment procedure is in line with the logic of a modern, efficient and, above all, results-oriented federal public service. The scope of this file obviously raises questions in terms of direction and I would therefore like to know what are the main beneficiaries of these recruitments at the level of the FPS Finance administrations? What distributions of staff are already planned in the light of the needs expressed on the ground? To what extent do these job openings respond to changes in the demographic pyramid within services? What forms of support have been provided for the reception and training of these lawyers? Are there any sponsorship programs with experienced staff? What is the expected time frame for the successful candidates to take office at the end of the Selor competition? Finally, have any measures been taken to facilitate the dissemination of this assistance to the various regional employment offices?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u83	Colleague, the planned recruitment can only be carried out once the 2016 personnel plan has been approved by the Inspector of Finance. As for the final distribution between the different administrations and management services, it will be known when the selection procedure is closed. The evolution of the demographic pyramid is indeed taken into account when drawing up the personnel plan. The distribution of recruitment among entities is based on quantitative and qualitative keys, including the estimation of retirements, while ensuring that critical functions are replaced. Each of the new employees of the FPS Finances is invited to a day of reception during which they will be introduced to the different administrations that make up the FPS Finances. Trainees who have entered the service also benefit from follow-up by more experienced colleagues, who will be able to best guide them in their future tasks. All employees undergo so-called multi-purpose training during which they become familiar with the evaluation cycles, the organization chart, the values of the FPS Finances, the status and career according to the levels, the publicity and motivation of the administrative acts and the readability. Subsequently, they are also invited to take a generic training course consisting of several components: ethics and integrity, generic skills and participation in a communication workshop. Finally, specific training in relation to their function and administration is organised so that the employee is operational as soon as possible within his new department. The selection of lawyers for the FPS Finances is scheduled to be closed in June 2016. Possible in-service entries will depend on the date of validation of the 2016 personnel plan. Indeed, several channels have been used to broadcast this new selection of lawyers. The offer was published on the Jobfin website. Social media from SPF Finances (Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn) were also used to announce this new selection. This selection was also published on the Forem and Actiris website.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u84	Minister, thank you for your full answers. I welcome the fact that the finance administration has qualitative and quantitative competencies in relation to its missions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u85	Mr President, Minister, as part of the Coperfin reform, the FPS Finance has set up regional Personnel and Organisation (P&O) posts, which are enshrined in an order of 11 December 2013 signed by the Chairman of the Management Committee, Mr Hans D'hondt. This decree provides for the establishment of 10 external services based in the various subregions to which it has been provided following internal applications. These external services provide the workers of the SPF with a very useful outreach support It seems, however, if I believe the UNSP, one of the bodies representing the FPS Finance workers, that it was decided to abolish these regional P&O services and to organise the grouping of the 63 agents concerned in Brussels, when they had made informed choices in terms of the workplace less than three years ago, and that the proximity provided by their presence in the region offered an optimal service to the FPS Finance workers. There is therefore a twofold problem here: a problem in terms of respect for career and family choice of settlement in a region and a problem in terms of service to FPS workers Finance via a certain proximity Minister, do you confirm the decision to abolish regional P&O services within the FPS Finance? If so, what is behind this decision? How can this change in course be explained after less than two years of operation of regional P&O services? What training costs have been incurred since November 2013 to implement regional P&O services? Has this decision been the subject of consultation with workers' representative organisations? What was the conclusion of this consultation? On what basis have the 63 officers involved been assigned to the regional P&O services? Was there a commitment from the authority that this assignment would be final? Will an alternative be offered to the agents concerned in order to be able to pursue their careers in their region, if necessary in a different position? In view of the age of certain officials concerned, is it appropriate to impose on them a residence in Brussels, with the obligation to be subject to the constraints inherent in the long daily journeys, but also to the new organisation of their working time, also taking into account their respective family situation? To what extent will these elements be taken into account? How will outreach to officers be ensured as part of the future centralized organization of the P&O service?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u86	Mr Gilkinet, the regional P&O services were responsible for accompanying and coaching major change projects in the regions, such as the implementation of the changeover, the introduction of telework, evaluation cycles, etc. In the meantime, all these projects have been completed and introduced in all regions of the country. Some of the external services of the P&O management service could not be completed at the time of changeover 3. As a result of the ageing of the population, there has been a steady decline in the number of staff in the regions in such a way that almost no one remains in some provinces – the province of Limburg, the province of Luxembourg and the province of Namur. Based on this finding, we preferred to work differently, and integrate the workforce into P&O's central services. As with other P&O collaborators, P&O regional collaborators received coaching training on human resources issues. The latter were provided internally by their colleagues from central services and the Institute for Administrative Training (IFA). Therefore, no external budget was required. Costs incurred are in no way lost as staff continue to work at the Personnel and Organization FPS. This decision was discussed in consultation with trade unions which did not give a favourable opinion. In 2014, the staff involved had been assigned to the regional services based on their voluntary choice to integrate a regional P&O service, a mobile service primarily dedicated to coaching and coaching. From the start, they were aware that this function was very mobile. They were active in several regions and regularly visited Brussels. They have their residence in Brussels and remain very mobile throughout the country with the possibility of teleworking and working in a satellite office. The staff involved are useful for the proper functioning of the P&O FPS. However, this does not prevent them from applying for vacant jobs through internal mobility and thus directing their careers towards another FPS entity by being, at the same time, assigned to another residence. The staff members concerned were already very mobile as this is inherent in their functions and tasks. In addition, they can always carry out telework and work in a satellite office. In the future, the P&O FPS wants to continue to be present in the region through increased mobility of its entire staff and regular visits of P&O staff on a thematic basis. In this way, we eliminate the uneven distribution of P&O personnel in the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u87	Minister, this is part of reforms that do not end at the level of the FPS Finances and in relation to which workers find it difficult to find each other. So much so that you confirm that there was no positive opinion on this new reform. In other words, there has been a negative opinion that, if I decode correctly, there is a lack of continuity and coherence in the options that are being taken. To propose to a worker to settle in provinces such as Limburg or Luxembourg, which are quite far from Brussels, and then to force them, two years later, to come to Brussels to reside even if there are possibilities for teleworking in decentralised services, seems to me to be a really problematic way of doing things. As for the purpose of service and advice to FPS Finance workers, I really wonder about the ability of a centralized service to perform it in a sufficiently effective way, particularly in relation to the knowledge of the field and the reality of life of the various workers concerned. I do not have the impression that this is a completely successful and desirable reform, which is why I asked you this question and that I am concerned, in the same way as some workers or representative organisation of workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u88	Mr. Chair, Minister, whether in the context of the discussion of your policy note or through a written question, I have asked you on several occasions about the means available to the Belgian Internet Service Center (BISC) to operate, particularly in the context of its new tasks to monitor the proper reporting of income related to the development of activities, sites and services such as Air BNB or Uber. Minister, there is a real challenge to have a cross-cutting service that is effective in relation to these new economic developments, but also in relation to the use of the Internet for purposes of tax evasion or financial crime. In response to my last written question, you indicated to me, in particular last November, that "by its notification of 3 April 2015, the Council of Ministers did indeed provide for the technical and human means to combat the fraudulent processes used on the net. In concrete terms, a budget envelope of EUR 300 000 covers ICT costs and another envelope of almost EUR 200 000 covers the commitment of four employees at level A2." The expected return on investment was set at EUR 1 million in 2015 and EUR 3 million in subsequent years, as soon as the service has the right means and the speed of its cruise. Minister, I would like more details on this and on the status of follow-up to these commitments. How many commitments have been made by the time it is out of the four announced? What mission will these four additional workers be assigned to? What qualification profile is sought? What procedure has been implemented for such recruitment? If these recruitments have not taken place, can you tell me what explains such a slow decision? With regard to the EUR 300 000 envelope of ICT costs, what is it specifically intended for? Is it the purchase of faster and more efficient hardware, software, databases or Internet access? How much? What is the status of implementation of these commitments? What guarantees them, if any? How have the expected returns on investment been assessed? Is it not very weak in view of the exponential development of the targeted services? Does IBSC already have experience in this area? What results have been achieved from possible IBOC initiatives in relation to platforms comparable to those targeted here? What method was used? Is it duplicatible?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u89	Mr Gilkinet, as a reminder, the objectives of the BISC are to provide operational support to the FPS Finance Inspection Service in the analysis of fraud typologies through the implementation of specific techniques of Internet research and data analysis. Within this framework and thanks to the budget allocated on 3 April 2015, four specialized A2 officers were recruited through Selor. These four officers gradually took office in the last quarter of 2015. Their training continues within the ISI. Two of these agents are already working on the data collected on the Internet and on their intersection with other available data. In addition, internal calls for candidates for two more business profiles were also launched for the BISC. Indeed, even if the BISC has been placed within the ISI, it has a cross-cutting role and, as such, must ensure that technical and professional knowledge is shared within the Finance FPS. A business associate joined BISC in December 2015. The other internal mobility call within the FPS Finances is still ongoing. The commitment is scheduled for March 2016. In view of the exponential development of e-commerce and the difficulties in finding adequate internal profiles, it has been proposed that staff, in collaboration with Selor, initiate an external recruitment procedure with the establishment of a future reserve for the BISC. As regards the additional resources granted in ICT matters, a business case with the following components has been validated and is currently in the process of being implemented. Firstly, I will mention the "connective" aspects, namely the upgrading of the technical infrastructure of the BISC, as well as the widening of the current bandwidth of Internet access. Second, the purchase of equipment, particularly necessary to strengthen and virtualize research equipment, will significantly increase the current investigative capacity of the IBSC. The procurement procedures follow administratively. Third, the acquisition of a number of specialized software to facilitate data collection and automate processing processes. Fourth, the purchase of access licences to certain external data sources such as the TotalPatent-LexisNexis database. The purchase of licenses to access other external databases is also being prepared. The growing importance of the digital and participatory economy, the associated risks of tax evasion and the experience already gained by the BISC in supporting ISI inspections show that return on investment is important. Success has already been achieved in the fight against turnover fraud on collaborative real estate rental platforms as well as remote sales fraud. The investigations to which the BISC has collaborated often involve several services and their Internet searches are an important aspect, but additional checks are in all cases necessary to complete the tax investigation. As the IBSC provides support for tax controls, tax revenues related to these activities must therefore be measured at the level of inspection services. The ISI's 2016 operational plan set the objective for the BISC to gradually multiply the supporting projects, first within the ISI, and then involving other tax administrations and external partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u90	Mr Minister, my constant impression with regard to the fight against crime via the Internet is that there is a mismatch between statements that it is important, that it develops, and the means that are available to do so. In this case, I am asking you about a notification from the government of April 3, 2015. I note that both in terms of staff commitments and in terms of material investment in information technology on the basis of the business case you have described to me, it is not yet a year later. Is this a problem of disorganization? Unwillingness? Hesitancy about the allocation of resources? I really stand by my hunger for taking this phenomenon into account, and it is constant! I interviewed you as part of the policy brief. I asked you a written question and asked you again now. I hope that the next time I ask you, you will be able to explain to me two or three cases solved thanks to the proper allocation of means, the choice of the right people and the efficient investments in both software and hardware and in efficient networks, like those used by those who fraud over the Internet. We're really busy fighting with 2CVs against Formula 1s!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister can stay until 5:00 p.m. I would like to see the discussions of Mr Gilkinet and Mr Laaouej taking place today. Mrs Wouters and Mr Verherstraeten, would you like to put your next questions in telegram style so that we can deal with this interplay today? [[Assent]] Debates of the European Parliament Mr Gilkinet's 9314 has been postponed to another committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u92	Mr President, Mr Van Biesen was just here too, his question has been merged with mine.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u93	He left in the meantime, so he gives you the power of attorney to ask that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u94	Minister, this question relates to the tax sheets. Those sheets had to be submitted by 1 March. Today it is already 2 March and I would have liked this question to have been discussed last week, but we did not get that far. The problem is that tax secretariats, accounting firms and accountants often have technical problems just before that date, often computer science bothers them. There is often a delay, which has occurred in previous years. Last year it was the first time Belcotax was okay. Now it is said that Belcotax worked perfectly in 2015 and from now on an administrative fine will be imposed on debtors who cannot submit their sheets correctly or in good time. Therefore, the administration has announced that from 2016 onwards, it will punish any infringement of late filing of those data sheets with a fine. So suddenly people are very strict, which, of course, raises a few questions. I fully agree that these fact sheets should be submitted in good time, but the question is, of course, whether this new strict regulation will effectively contribute to better compliance with the fact sheet obligation. After all, I believe that it is more important that these sheets are completed in a complete and correct manner. That is where the problem of reference feet often arises, this for calculating the benefit of all kinds. Especially with regard to loans, it is often only published at the beginning of March. However, that reference rate also serves to calculate the benefits of all kinds, for the current account of the manager. The problem is that there is not enough time to submit such a chip of all kinds. Denderleeuw Centre has apparently indicated that any change or improvement that one wishes to make afterwards in Belcotax will also be automatically fined. If that is the intention, then I also have doubts. I have some specific questions for you. What are the reasons for this new directive in relation to the administrative fines for late lodged and late lodged and even worse later improved sheets? After all, we only want to communicate the data correctly. What department within your administration finally decided that? Did that happen in consultation with you or your cabinet? How do you place this new directive within the framework of the government agreement, which makes it clear that the inspection services should first and foremost be more involved as partners of the entrepreneur, especially when there is a first infringement? As far as those fines are concerned, will those computer-controlled be imposed, or is there a human assessment prior to that? How will late submission be taken into account due to late action by the public authorities themselves? In the meantime, I have noticed that this is being postponed for a number of chips but not for other chips. I would have liked an answer to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u95	Ms Wouters, as regards the coefficients, the reference interest rates for calculating the benefit of all kinds for interest-free or cheap loans were published in the Belgian Official Journal on 25 February 2016. The tax authorities are indeed considering collecting fines in case of late filing of tax returns. Article 229/1 of the WIB 92 implements Article 445 of the WIB 92 on the fixing of the scale of administrative fines and the modalities for the non-compliance with the obligations relating to the submission of tax returns. As regards the possible granting of a delay of submission, I can confirm that, as announced on the FPS Finance website on 25 February 2016, a certain tolerance will be applied to late submission of sheets 281.10, 281.11 and 281.20, where an advantage of all kinds for interest-free or low-cost loans should be mentioned. In the absence of data sheets, the recipient of the income is unable or difficult to correctly enter his personal tax declaration. In addition, in the absence of fact sheets, my administration cannot verify whether the recipient has effectively declared the taxable income granted or paid. The timely submission of the sheets by employers or their agent thus ensures equal treatment for all taxable persons. The aim is to increase compliance by introducing, on the one hand, the penalties laid down by Royal Decree for taxable employers who fail to comply with their obligations to submit the data sheets correctly and, on the other hand, to use a preventive approach. Article 229/1 WIB 92 implements Article 445 on the fixing of the scale of administrative fines and the modalities of application in the non-compliance with the obligations relating to the submission of sheets. The purpose of the application of that measure is to improve the compliance of the debtors with their obligations. My administration is also working on a preventive approach through structural consultation with the social secretariats and the grade professions. In order to meet the demand to pose as a partner of the companies, a preventive reminder will be sent in May in order to allow the debtor to rectify the situation within a period of one month before a fine is sent for the 2015 income year. It is advisable to present the data sheets as soon as possible in order to ensure that the services provided to citizens are of the highest quality. In determining the date of the infringement, account will be taken of possible late action by the public authorities, if this is not possible. As in the other tax matters, comments on the fine will be assessed individually. The CDVU, renamed PersoPoint, is not fined for its activity as a mandatary. The actual debtor of the company advance charge shall be fined in the event of a breach.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u96	I welcome the delay and am pleased that you are planning an evaluation in May to check where the government is failing. The issue of the publication of the reference rate is already several years old. If we want to reach the deadline of 1 March, the reference rates must be communicated more quickly. The problem of the RSZ controls remains. If an advantage is contested by the RSZ, the parties concerned must be able to adapt it afterwards. It will be very difficult for fines to be imposed. I advise you to be sure to sit around the table with those who work for grades and social secretariats. A lot of people are unhappy. They are certainly asking for consultation. That will benefit everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u97	Minister, there is a risk that a couple with the highest taxable income in the Netherlands will end up between shore and ship due to the more favourable arrangements regarding child burden in Belgium compared to that in the Netherlands. Well, in autumn 2015, the European Court of Justice, on the basis of freedom of establishment, condemned the Belgian tax authorities for an unjustified tax charge on a couple, one partner in the Netherlands with the highest taxable income, and the other working in Belgium. This was followed by a judgment of the Constitutional Court and a judgment of the Court of Appeal in Antwerp for discrimination or unequal treatment. You replied to a previous question that you would have it examined whether or not you were going to file an appeal in cassation. Firstly, have you already taken a decision on this? Are you appealing against that judgment of the Court of Appeal? Why do you appeal if you do? Secondly, what is the current administrative practice for such cases in the light of a case-law, which seems to have already been established in other places in that sense?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u98	Minister, I have converted my written question into an oral question to find out what is happening today. For many years, married frontier workers with dependents have suffered tax discrimination. For years we have been following the file, which is a real agony. Since the first day I have been in Parliament, which is now more than five years ago, I have taken the issue to heart, especially since I myself am a frontier worker and an ex-frontier worker. Some married frontier workers often miss thousands of euros a year. I would like to endorse Mr Verherstraeten's question. There is the judgment of 22 September 2015 of the Hof van Beroep in Antwerp, which once again confirms the taxable person. It condemns the tax discrimination against married couples in relation to couples actually living together. What follow-up will you now take to the judgment? Does the administration accept the judgment or will the appeal be brought? How many tax married families with dependents and with a highly taxable income have an exempt foreign income? Do you have any idea of the number of declarations per levy? It concerns the Netherlands, Germany, Luxembourg and France as border countries. If correct application of the Imfeld judgment leads to the granting of the increased duty-free sum by means of an appeal, how many objections could be raised annually?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u99	Minister, I will not repeat what has been said. I also live near a border, I'm not concerned but I know a lot of people who have been. So my question is the same. What are the consequences of the Court of Appeal's judgment of 22 September? Are you going to go to cassation? Will you accept the stop and will the administration implement it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u100	I will not repeat the list of judgments. I've asked the administration not to file a cassation appeal. On the basis of common sense, I believe that all the arguments in this matter are exhausted. However, a legal solution must be found. My administration has an obligation to apply the current provisions until a legislative amendment is approved in order to comply with the judgments of the European Court of Justice and the Constitutional Court. I will certainly take an initiative and count on the constructive attitude of the majority partners in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u101	It is right that no appeal for cassation has been filed. I understand that your services are in line with established case law. We support any legislative initiative to offer a structural solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u102	Minister, this is one of the best answers I have heard in this committee. I have asked this question very frequently over the past five years. I have been advocating this correction for years, and I am very pleased. I see that even my fellow Members Mr Verherstraeten and Mr Piedboeuf are very happy. My bill's been on the table for a while. I therefore call on my fellow Members of the European Parliament, the majority and opposition, to continue with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u103	Mr President, in the face of such a show of joy, I remain speechless and therefore I am delighted, like my colleague. I am glad that you will take an initiative, that we will certainly support all three or all of them! Merci.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u104	You know, Minister, that the Veurne Office has recently set out a kind of new working method. When they have a traffic offender in front of them who asks for a mild penalty, they first check whether they still have fines open. If that is the case, they must be paid before an alternative penalty can be imposed. In this way, last year in Veurne we were able to collect EUR 33 000 in fines. However, this must be done by means of a very cumbersome procedure, because the recipient of penalty fines must be called in because the prosecutors themselves cannot see directly whether or not the accused still has an outstanding debt. That's why the Veurne District Attorney pleads for access to the outstanding fines. If that were possible, the Belgian Treasury would be able to collect three to five million euros an year. You know that some 300 million in penalty fines are not collected today. This government is trying to improve the collection anyway, with the pilot projects in Ghent and others. Minister, I would have liked to have heard from you what your position is on the idea of giving Justice access to the financial databases. Will you or will you not take steps to make this possible with your colleague in the Justice Department? I hope your answer will make me happy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u105	Mrs De Wit, as regards your first question, the FPS Finance is seeking fines on behalf of the Public Prosecutor's Office. In this context, the recipient reports on the failure to recover a fine. It shall do so when the recovery options are exhausted or non-existent. Reporting usually takes place some time before the limitation period of the fines. In the meantime, the convicted person may once again be tried for other facts. In the event of suspension or postponement, the payment of previous fines may be a condition for the granting of the measure. The public prosecutor must therefore know the current state of affairs and must ask the recipient, who must carry out the necessary searches. Accessing the file of fines should lead to a win-win situation. The Public Prosecutor may consult the file himself at any time and use the information before the court. The recipient should no longer seek and pass on the balance of the fine, so that he can focus on his core tasks, namely the collection and recovery of the fines. As far as your second question is concerned, we expect the application from the Minister of Justice. The better collection of penalty fines is a shared concern of the Minister of Justice and myself. Legally, there is no problem, as the FPS Finance is assisting the prosecution for recovery. It is therefore logical that the client is aware of what happens to his fines to be recovered. Practical arrangements must be made. For example, access cannot be granted to any parquet magistraat, as this could lead to an overload of the computer system. It is therefore necessary to discuss this, as well as the more technical aspects of the consultation of the database. Where there are no real legal or practical problems to be expected, it may be different with regard to the protection of privacy. That has yet to be investigated. The necessary authorisation will then be requested if this proves necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u106	Minister, I note that there are indeed possibilities. I am also convinced that it will be a win-win situation. As far as privacy is concerned, I don't think it's gonna be so bad. The data can now be retrieved via the receiver. Provided that there is a system of proxy and identity recognition, there can be no problem that a parquet hall has access to it. Let us hope that it will succeed very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u107	Mr President, Minister, I have chosen the path of inquiry to have time to debate. Indeed, this is more of a forward-looking discussion that I would like to have with you. Some analysts say that the question is not whether there will be a new banking crisis, but when it happens. This is pessimistic, but indicators are converging and worrying in this respect. Since 1 January this year, European banks have lost more than a quarter of its value. Some of them, such as the Italian bank Monte Dei Paschi Di Siena exposed to doubtful loans, seem to be on the brink of bankruptcy. This is one of the many early signs of a potential new banking crisis. Several points of analysis can be made: economic explanations, the slowdown of the world economy from China but also at European level in connection with austerity measures, the collapse of oil prices, an economy and banks that are too dependent on investments in the oil sector, particularly in shale gas, or the amount of doubtful debts in billions of euros. With regard to shale gas and oil, I asked you about the need for the carbon sectors to divest themselves of their commitments under the Paris COP21. We have a bill in preparation on disinvestment in this sector. Monetary explanations and the central bank's policy of low rates push banks' profit margins to a minimum, with the announcement of soon-to-be-negative rates that would be applied to citizens' savings. If this decision is made, we cannot measure the investment consequences. Are we going back to safes in our houses? This is not a desirable economic model. There are also systemic explanations. We believe that the measures taken after the 2008 crisis are insufficient. The banks are still too big. The banking trades have not been separated. Banks remain interconnected. Their investments remain very opaque. This does not reassure the markets, especially since the European Bank Resolution Fund is still not effective and questions remain about the mechanisms of the lines set up in the event of a new banking crisis which makes investors hesitate to place their money in banks. Minister, do you share this diagnosis of the fragility of the banking system, which would risk going through a new crisis? Similarly, do you agree on the reasons that might lead to this? Have the Ecofin meetings and the central banks already addressed this issue? Are emergency measures envisaged or implemented? Are policy changes being considered? What about the implementation of the European Banking Resolution Fund? What prevents its establishment? Is there no need to pursue or deepen banking reforms through a genuine separation of banking professions, greater transparency of their activities, a strengthening of their links to the real economy, a reduction in the average size of banks, the promotion of a greater diversity of banks? I would point out that this last option is the path that Britain has chosen, in order to avoid the "too big to fail" phenomenon which would have a systemic impact on national economies. Finally, does Belgium play or intend to play a major role in preventing a new banking crisis? If so, by what means? I believe that this debate deserves to be held in the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u108	Mr President, I will not be much longer. Each week brings its share of new information. At a time when we think that the financial markets are experiencing a lull, we learn that Shanghai is deviating. The specialist press reports on Deutsche Bank's difficulties. The global economic environment is not reassuring. In short, we are experiencing a period of uncertainty. Not to mention the deflatory situation in which we seem to settle, or at least to which we are heading, despite the liquidity injection policy pursued by the European Central Bank, notably through the purchase of bonds or government securities. We discussed it last year. These elements, which converge towards a risk of difficulty in the financial markets, with the consequences that we are experiencing (reflexion of liquidity, problems of access to finance for economic actors, depreciation of values in bank assets), lead us to ask you, Mr Minister, to re-explain to us what preventive and monitoring arrangements are being put in place both at Belgian level by the National Bank and at European level in the context of your contacts with your counterparts and with the European Central Bank. Also with the European Commission, each in its role, to see what measures are being taken to analyse very concretely the risks of difficulties for our banking system, our public finances and our economy in general. My question is: how is the risk analysed and addressed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u109	Mr Gilkinet and Mr Laaouej, your remarks are very interesting and relevant (on the current situation). It must be admitted that in recent weeks, financial markets have experienced significant volatility, due in particular to several factors that relate mainly to general uncertainty in the economy. A weak macroeconomic environment, both in developed and emerging countries, leads to uncertainties and some revision of the reversal of risk. These developments are closely followed by central banks and national and international supervisors, as well as myself and my firm. Indeed, it is important, in order to start the discussion, to stress that the financial situation of the Belgian and European banks has generally improved fundamentally in recent years. The significant imbalances observed before the financial crisis in the banking sector have gradually been reduced, even though there are some differences between institutions. That's undeniable, too. First, the prudential framework was significantly strengthened under the leadership of the G20 and the Basel Committee. The new rules affect not only the level and quality of capital, but also liquidity management, governance and in particular remuneration and resolution instruments. Secondly, the supervisory architecture has been thoroughly reformed with the creation of the European Banking Union, which aims to reduce the nexus between the public sector and banks and to restore confidence in the banking sector. To date, two pillars have been implemented with the single supervisory mechanism on the one hand and the single resolution mechanism on the other. In order to make the single resolution mechanism effective, a single resolution fund was established in January 2016 and is financed by banks. The first contributions from banks were received at the end of 2015. Beyond these reforms, banks have generally reduced their non-strategic activities. Thus, Belgian banks have significantly reduced the size of their balance sheet since 2007-2008 and have focused on traditional banking activities in some strategic markets, mainly the Belgian market. Thus, the total balance sheet of the Belgian banks increased from €1,578 billion, or 458% of GDP at the end of 2007, to $1,008 billion at the end of September 2015, or 248 % of GDP, which is just over half of GDP compared to 2007. Thanks to this rapid consolidation of their balance sheet, by retreating to their strategic activities and markets, Belgian banks have reduced the weight of provisions for doubtful debts in their profit and loss accounts. This has contributed to improved profitability in recent years. Moreover, following the introduction of the new regulatory standards, known as Basel 3, Belgian banks have greatly improved their liquidity and solvency position. Their common equity Tier 1 capital ratio averaged 15% at the end of September 2015. As early as 2016, Basel 3 standards provide for the gradual introduction of macro-prudential measures to take account of the systematic dimension of financial institutions. Thus, the National Bank, as a market-prudential authority, recently decided to impose on eight Belgian credit institutions an additional capital buffer ranging from 0.75% to 1.5% of basic own funds depending on the size of these institutions. Despite this marked improvement, however, the financial sector faces several challenges. First, the economic crisis has weakened the financial situation of some financial institutions, particularly in countries more affected by the economic crisis, such as Portugal, Cyprus, Italy and Greece. Some European banks are affected by an increasing number of doubtful debts. It should be noted, however, that in Belgium these non-performing loans represent only a limited share (4%) of the total portfolio, compared with an average of 6.4% in the European Union as a whole. These average figures for the European Union, however, hide a very large disparity within the Union, with a few countries with average percentages exceeding 30%. These doubtful debts are likely to affect economic activity by immobilizing funds that could be used in particular to provide loans to households and businesses and thus support economic activity. It is important to provide a comprehensive response to this problem in order to clean up the balance sheet of banks in general as quickly as possible. However, I would like to stress that the resolution of doubtful debts is a multi-dimensional issue. There are various obstacles to the management of these claims, which go beyond supervision. Thus, an effective judicial system, accompanied by effective bankruptcy law, is a crucial element in ensuring their prompt and adequate management. The tax system for doubtful assets may also be a barrier to resolution. This problem therefore requires a comprehensive approach bringing together all the actors concerned around the table. In this respect, it seems to me very important that the State aid schemes and the new Directive on the recovery and resolution of banks provide a virtuous dynamic for the consolidation of bank balance sheets and debt management. Second, the more persistent low-rate environment than originally expected, as well as the morose economic environment, can affect bank profitability in the years ahead. In this context, banks are therefore required to further adapt their business model. Furthermore, it is important that the authorities remain vigilant and closely monitor emerging risks, particularly given the low rates that affect the foundations of financial intermediation and the increased competition between institutions in key markets and activities. This could be further exacerbated by the arrival of companies operating in the new financial technologies, the "Fin Tech". In view of the significant increase in the quality of capital and the solvency of banks in recent years, it is now important to finalize the reforms under way at the level of the Basel Committee. The latter should not affect the ability of banks to sustain economic growth, but are likely to reduce the risk that some "outliers" may entail. Secondly, a certain regulatory break seems to me to be a good one in order to allow institutions to adjust their business model to the regulatory framework and the macroeconomic environment we are experiencing today. It goes without saying that we continue to monitor financial and economic developments very closely. The impact of these economic developments on the Belgian economy is closely monitored by the Federal Planning Office and the National Bank. Each fiscal control, as an independent institution, the Federal Bureau of the Plan transmits the macroeconomic outlook to the government. These forecasts take account of positive and negative economic developments and are to be used as input for (re)evaluation of the revenue and expenditure of the authorities in the preparation and control of the budget. In addition to macroeconomic developments, economic and financial developments can also have a significant impact on the Belgian financial sector, as you indicated. The joint supervisor, under the direction of the European Central Bank, is responsible for identifying and monitoring risk systems within the financial sector. The European Central Bank has a series of instruments to take preventive measures to strengthen financial stability and can take corrective action if necessary. So far, the European supervisor has not considered it necessary to take any further action, but he certainly has it at his disposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u110	Minister, thank you for taking the time to respond and detail your own analysis of the situation and probably also of the National Bank. It's an arrest. I will not table a motion for recommendation. I could have done so in a very general way because I am convinced that – not only at the level of the opposition – we must really, collectively, pay attention to what is happening and implement political decisions and new reforms that are necessary to avoid a new banking crisis that we do not want. I will bring three points in relation to what I think is appropriate, which sometimes go in the same direction as what you have said and sometimes differ a little. The first element is what you call the finalisation of reforms in the banking and financial sector at the level of the Basel Committee, or rather political decision-making and Ecofin. When decisions are made between banking actors, they do not go far enough, it seems to me, and not as far as political analysts can propose. The diagnosis we made, both at European and Belgian level, of the banking and financial reforms that were taking place was that they were not going far enough compared to other reforms that followed other crises earlier in history in the 1920s; half-measures were taken. While control has been strengthened, the rules for banks have not been sufficiently strengthened to reduce risk. We can no longer accept that banks take risks with, as final insurers, the states and therefore the citizens. The second element I wanted to address is that of the overall economic context. The report of the National Bank with the Governor of the National Bank will be reviewed on Friday. I had the opportunity to hear Mr. Wunsch, one of the vice-governors, present this report to Namur. One thing that seems obvious to me in the analysis of this report is that economic activity is a little bit sluggish. There is a demand which today does not work at Belgian level, as elsewhere at European level. There are also implications of what is happening in China, of what is happening in oil prices, but I really think that the policies of reducing public spending, returning to balance and austerity have a very negative impact on the functioning of our economy, on the confidence of savers and on the willingness to invest and take risks. I therefore think that this flange should be released. Climate and energy issues could be motivating to create a new economic activity that is virtuous, useful for job creation, while addressing environmental issues. If this works, I think our banks will be better as well and we will be able to avoid new crises. This brings me to the last point: you did not address the issue of dividends demanded by the shareholders of the banks, including when it comes to state shareholders. What led to the previous banking and financial crisis was the belief that very high profits could be achieved without having an impact on the solidity of the model, the environment and the workers. There is a need to return, in the head of banks, to more measured profit rates, or even to profits that are more used to strengthen equity than to feed shareholders. They are certainly entitled to a certain return on the risks they have taken, but the expectation of too high returns is problematic when the safety of the model and the prevention of future crises are at stake. We will certainly have the opportunity to discuss it again. Thank you for listening, in any case on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u111	Thank you, Minister, for these answers. I consider that the answers provided reflect a degree of clarity with regard to the problems. It will be recalled that two or three days before Lehman Brothers' bankruptcy in September 2008, a predecessor of the minister, on a television set, accompanied by a member of what was then called the Banking Commission, answered a question from a journalist saying that there were as many risks that a Belgian bank would fall bankrupt as there were risks that the sky would fall on his head. A few days later, it was Lehman Brothers, and a few days later, it was Fortis. In this area, there is always a need for clarity and humility. The minister is in this state of mind, and from this point of view, we can be pleased with it. At the same time, structural problems remain. Mr Gilkinet has just spoken about this, and I know that it is a difficult debate that should be placed on the political agenda: it is the return on equity in the banking sector. There should be a framework for profits, for return to equity in the banking sector in particular. Beyond a few banks that currently have some public shareholding, there are still completely private banks today, which can fall back tomorrow under the pressure of a number of shareholders who want to have a short-term, immediate return on investment, with the drifts that this can bring. It is true that some legislation has been adopted, including all the regulations from Basel 3, which require banks to use part of their self-financing to strengthen equity, which will obviously limit the distribution of dividends. It's a way to frame the return on equity. If you require banks to have higher solvency ratios, some of the profits will have to consolidate their own funds; the distribution of dividends can no longer be made unlimitedly. Second type of measures: the management of top managers' salaries; avoid linking bonuses to short-term results. It's another way to limit things a little bit. The question is whether we should not go beyond that. I really believe that all this needs to be monitored and that we need to keep an eye on it. Another element: much has been said about it; the problem of shadow banking, of the "outside balance sheet", does not seem to be entirely solved. Off-balance-sheet transactions deserve special attention to see if in Belgium we still have banks involved in shadow banking. If so, is there no need to consider a plan to resorption this shadow banking? That seems to me to be quite fundamental. For the rest, I am pleased that the National Bank has put in place a monitoring system that has led to eight banks being asked to increase their own capital mattresses. This is an important indication that the problem is being taken seriously. For the rest, we are dependent on a whole series of external parameters that do not depend solely on Belgium. These are fundamental economic parameters: the price of raw materials, the price of oil, political stability in the Middle East, the situation of a number of economies on a global scale, especially the Chinese economy... We depend on all these factors, which are beyond our control, but there are also factors on which we can play. As far as Belgium is concerned, I believe that the exposure of our banks to an increase in the international banking crisis should be minimised.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-02-54-commissie-ic355x.u112	Mr President, I would like to turn my questions Nos 9857 and 9864 into written questions.
