ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u1	The Minister of Defence will give us his presentation for about an hour. Secondly, colleagues who have introduced inquiries and oral questions will put them in order. Subsequently, groups that have not tabled questions will be able to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me first wish you a happy New Year. May 2016 be a year of confidence in the implementation of the strategic plan! Let me give you an introduction to the expectations. In the meantime, we know what we will do. We also know how many people we will do that with and what budget we will have for it in the future. In essence, therefore, we have a strategic plan. I am not going to answer the oral questions that have been put in the meantime, and there will probably be further questions on the interpretation of quarters and the like. In fact, no decision has yet been taken on, for example, the interpretation of quarters and their working methods. That is exactly the implementation phase of the strategic plan. Before we can begin to do this, we must have at least a clear view of what we are going to do, of the number of people needed and of the budget that will be made available. Mr President, in reply to all the questions relating to quarters, I say that in the very short term I will propose the last element of the strategic plan, in particular the regional implementation of our activities in the future, as laid down in the coalition agreement. After this introduction, I will talk to you about the safe environment until 2030, which was the basis of the strategic plan, and the key missions that have been defined. I will explain to you what a multilaterally supportive and balanced defence is. I will then address the issue of capacity by the year 2030. I will conclude with the principles that will be used for implementation. Finally, as the President has foreseen, there will be time for questions. As an introduction, I'd like to outline the route. Many questions have been asked about the strategic plan, such as when it comes, why it is not there yet, and comments have been made, as there is none, and people are worried. I was worried too. Now I can tell you that steps have been taken. However, ladies and gentlemen, political decision-making, and certainly in a dossier as important as that of the defence sector, takes time. We left from the federal coalition agreement. On that basis, I proposed a first proposal of strategic vision to the general staff on 30 March 2015. Then the political decision-making process started. My note on the strategic vision was developed by the staff during an interactive process between my cabinet on Defense and the members of the interkabinets working group. A first presentation followed on 8 May 2105, after which the analysis of the safety environment and its choices were approved. However, some additional studies were requested. That's what happened. At the meeting of the nuclear cabinet of 24 July 2015, I made a proposal for a fully strategic plan. The Council of Ministers then decided to develop a number of additional budgetary capacity scenarios. In total, five scenarios were developed. You're all familiar with that. Finally, on 22 December 2015, the government approved the strategic plan with a number of key elements and some principles. In accordance with the Government's decision of 22 December 2015, Defence will have 25,000 employees in the future. The agreement also covers a €9.2 billion reinvestment in Defence over a period from today to 2030, as well as ten guiding principles corresponding to the texts that were discussed within the framework of the Policy Working Group. What else can you expect? We are based on an existing strategic plan, which was discussed and adapted. Choices have been made. In the end, this will now be translated into a background paper, a policy paper, which I will hand over to my defence staff and which will then also be public. That is the strategic plan of the Belgian Defence Department with a view to 2030. I will briefly address the safe environment until 2030. The latter has undergone quite significant changes in recent years. In the East, Russia was, until three or four years ago, a strategic partner of NATO. With NATO, we had discussions and agreements with the Russians to work together in the long term. Today, what I call "assertivity" – but more in the East, we speak of Putin's and Russia's "aggressiveness" – shows that a threat exists. In the South, Belgium has always been focused on Central Africa, which was very important for our country at both the economic and security levels. Today, the Sahel region and the Middle East are burning. This has direct consequences for our internal security. This can be seen with refugees, terrorism, crime and drug and human trafficking. These are threats that Belgium perceives. In the west, we're lucky. They are mostly partners. The marine sector is still very important. In the North, today, there's not much going on. Global warming, which is partly the cause of the greater problems and migratory flows that we see in Africa, is making the northern sector increasingly important. We note today that many countries have already lost sight of the natural resources in the subsurface in the north, but also of the northern route, which will become increasingly important in the future. It depends a bit from expert to expert, but it is estimated that the northern sailing route will become an important route within this and 10 years or longer. I would like to mention this in order to briefly outline the territorial situation in Europe. Most of us grew up thinking that we lived here on an island of peace that was available for free. Today, however, we note that our island of peace is surrounded by a periphery that is more and more a threat to the perpetuation of that so cherished peace in our region. I am only talking about the European level. With regard to security, the European level must be the central level from which we look at the world. In addition, there are two global movements that are very important and that also present the necessary challenges. First of all, there is the movement of the singles and the zeros, the cyber, whose strategic importance, economic importance and security importance can hardly be underestimated. In addition, there are global maritime transports, for example, look at our own country, which really should not be underestimated. If we look at the tonnage, which is perhaps new for some people in the room...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Those are findings. At the same time, we have noted that not only we but also other European countries have progressively reduced their defence over the last 20 to 30 years in the upswing of the peace dividend. However, there are clear changes. We note that foreign security is being looked at in a different way, especially in our neighbouring countries, and that debates are going on all over Europe, whether the decision on reinvestment in defence has already been taken. One of the first principles approved is the principle of the core tasks of Defence and the other tasks for which defence can be used. As a background to this, I would first like to give a number of general guidelines, some of which we have adopted in order to define these core tasks. We want to contribute to the stability and security of European borders and global flows to Europe but also to the departure of Europe. We also want to contribute to the physical security of Belgian citizens all over the world and there is a desire for a more specific anchoring of capabilities at European level. Colleagues who were present at the colloquium held at the beginning of 2015 are well aware, in view of the years ahead and the changes that have taken place in recent years, that in the very short term a power, a military toolbox, is needed that is flexible enough to deal with the threats of the future. So three core tasks have been defined. It's about collective defense. In doing so, we are talking about defending our own territory and that of our allies. Inside, we have effectively made the choice to show solidarity with our allies. In the media it is sometimes said that this minister and this government do not make choices. Well, let me be very clear, we've made very specific choices. Within these choices, we also go further in full. A second core task is the safety collection. This means working with our international partners to try to control security in other parts of the world, starting from our own internal security. A third core task is that of protecting compatriots abroad, which we today know as the NEO (Non-combatant Evacuation Operations). Let me add that when we speak today about collective defence, we are mainly looking to the east. When we talk about collective security, we mainly look to the south. In what will follow in this presentation you will find that we have made some very specific choices within those core tasks. In addition, other tasks are defined for which there is and will be regular recourse to Defence. These are other tasks, not core tasks. This means that we are focusing on investment in the core tasks and that with the capacity we have we can also carry out a number of other tasks. That's actually the big difference between the two. This is about supporting internal security, either through intelligence or through direct commitment as we have it today. Furthermore, for humanitarian missions, aid to the nation, as it were, we will always be able to call on our Belgian Defence in our own country and abroad. Let us talk about what multilateral solidarity means. Let me introduce you to this slide that takes back the GDP per capita in Europe. In red, it is Belgium, in green, it is our neighbouring countries, in blue, the rest of Europe. When we compare the figures, we find that we are the sixth European country at the level of GDP per capita. As far as the military effort is concerned, for the last ten years we have been at the bottom of the rankings. With the decision of the government of 22 December 2015, we will find ourselves again in the peloton of European countries. Since Belgium is the country where NATO, the Shape and the European institutions are located, it must be at least in this platoon. The principle of solidarity is very important and we show it by participating in international operations. But it is also important to show our partners that we will be able, through investments, to remain a partner in solidarity. The next principle that was approved is the principle of balanced defense, la défense balancée. Different elements emerge from this concept. First of all, I would like to emphasise capacities that can adequately fulfil the core tasks as defined. Secondly, those who attended last year's colloquium also found that all the experts there said that we should talk about a broad-based defence. We want a balance between the four capacity dimensions and at least one, not 15, credible and sustainable fighting capacity in each dimension. Note that I'm talking about the capacitive dimensions, not the components. There is another principle, that of rationalisation. Today, I am talking about the capacity dimensions and the structures, in the future, will have to follow the needs. So we will not talk today about components or the supposedly necessary balance between components. We are talking about a balanced choice, which means that we have at least one unit in every dimension in terms of sustainable and credible combat capacity. Based on the choices made regarding the implementation of the core tasks, we also make a clear choice of what we can offer or not in the conflicts. Specifically, we take into account the questions of our international partners and our finding that we cannot offer added value everywhere, except in a number of specific niches. That is why we want to focus on strategic professionals, including ourselves, and that is what I am still talking about. Those are the things that hang around direct combat capacity, our own support and, above all, giving attention to and providing an answer to the famous European capability gaps. Remember my desire to be able to act more in a coordinated manner within NATO. That is precisely where we need to choose to be able to act autonomously as a part of Europe in the future, or at least not to be dependent in everything on the transatlantic band. Based on the choices we make within the core tasks, we want to put more emphasis on civil-military and non-kinetic capabilities to prevent conflicts and their after-care. When one looks at a conflict from the 3D-LO approach, namely Diplomacy, Development, Defence, Law and Order, we want to make increased efforts to prevent conflicts by, among other things, investing more in intelligence and more in advance. For example, we will not be able to participate immediately on land in the highest spectrum of violence, but at the moment of stabilisation, peacekeeping and reconstruction we will be able and willing to make effective contributions. If those aren't choices, I don't know what choices are anymore. The cost structure. It is quite clear that we want to move from the historical cost structure we know to a healthier cost structure, with a healthy ratio between personnel costs, operational costs and the costs necessary to ensure that staff are able to work safely in the future and to make a clear, appreciated contribution to what our partners want from us. What does that mean? The budget now provides for 78% of staff costs. For 2030, they will fall to a maximum of 50% of the budget. Operating costs, which are currently 16%, will be increased by 25% and investments, which are almost zero today, will also increase by 25%. This is a direct response to the resolution that was voted in Parliament eight or nine months ago. It is important to demonstrate that, if we adopt that healthy cost structure, Defence will not cease to exist by 2030. Will we be able to live up to all our ambitions? I do not think so, but if we can achieve a sound cost structure in the shortest possible time, there will be scope in the future to continue paying for replacement programmes and ongoing programmes. 2030 is not a final point. Defence's strategic plan will be in continuity. To do this, a healthy budget is needed. Then let's talk about the choices for abilities. You have seen what great elements were laid down, which formed the basis of many assumptions in the press. Some colleagues give interviews to different newspapers to whom they explain that a component or dimension has been forgotten, etc. Today, I'm going to give you figures that prove that there is really a question of a balanced defence. So we are starting from a margin of EUR 9.2 billion for investment between now and 2030. Let me repeat this. I repeat again that I am talking about the capacity dimensions, and that today there is no mortgage on the structures. It seems obvious to me that the staff has a say in the management of our department. The level of ambition for 2030 has been determined politically. The investments we are going to make are the continuation of the choices we made about the level of ambition for 2030. Political guidance is provided for the implementation of capacity and investment budgets. I choose to give you figures, with a view to transparency. However, it must be realized that these are indicative figures, expressed in constant euro in 2015. Every word is important. This is a first indication of the number of collaborators involved in the various capacities. Thus, in a strategic plan that spans fifteen years, there may be differences of 10, 20 or 50 people here and there. The same process can occur for a few million investments. It is clear that our choices indicate the direction for the future. Let's start with the capacity called "Inlichtingen – Cyber - Influence". As you know, and as everyone who has already asked parliamentary questions on this subject knows, the number of employees of the General Intelligence and Security Service (SGRS) is classified. In fact, a significant increase in staff and budgets is anticipated. We will adapt this service to the new challenges of social media, cable communication and anti-terrorism. We have chosen to invest, in accordance with the government agreement, in the development of a new capacity in the field of medium-altitude reconnaissance drones (MALE drone). There will be two in the short term and four in the slightly longer term, which will give us time to make the necessary adjustments and training. In any case, it will happen with the level of ambition projected. We also made the choice not to invest in high altitude drones (HALE drone) ourselves. However, it is important that we keep in touch with the latest capabilities and technologies that are developing, and so we will participate in the NATO Alliance Ground Surveillance programme. High altitude drones is therefore certainly a technology that we want to continue to follow. In terms of intelligence and influence, I can confirm that we will continue to do so. As you know, we are participating today in the Helios 2 programme to collect satellite data. We will continue to do so in the follow-up of Helios 2, the French CSO project (Composative Spatial Optique). I must not forget that participation in this programme is also a very important choice for a number of Belgian industrial companies and that it gives a direct return in their own country. Cyber capacity is also the subject of growth towards 200 people and the necessary investments will be made to be able to participate. There will also be investments in an offensive cyber capacity. It explores the extent to which a number of niches can be found in offensive cyber capacity, in order to have something to offer internationally and thus get things back from the partners they work with. When talking about thousands of people in Germany in terms of cyber capacity, it is clear that they have other financial opportunities. If we want to work with such countries, we must also have something to offer. In any case, we are going to invest in this. That is, moreover, a very important capacity for the future. This is a first example of civilian-military non-kinetic capabilities. In terms of influence, one of the first steps we are taking today is the deployment of PSYOPS teams (Psychological Operations). We want to develop a lot more in this area and we want to make it clear. This does not require a major investment, but it does provide a direct response to the very clearly defined capacity gap, both at European level and at NATO level. With our background and with the language skills specific to the Belgians, I believe that we can make an effective difference, either in counter narrative or in other possibilities of influence. This is the first time you've seen the word "reserve." I can confirm that we have contacted representatives of the reservists of the Belgian army, who form an extensive network of high quality. As the number of Defence employees has increased from 32,000 to 25,000, we may no longer have a certain know-how in the future. That is why we must welcome the offer of the representatives in question. In this way, we will be able to work properly on the structural front. It is essential to maintain the links between the army and civilians. I now come to the capacity dimension of Land. You can see at the top right the first slide dedicated to the Earth's capacity. This includes the most important staff. The same will apply in the future. Given the diversity of this dimension, the choices we have formed are appreciated by the military. I come to the totality of the investments planned for this capacity. First of all, we want to focus on military personnel who can do their job in complete safety and have all the protection and other means necessary to do their job in a safe way. By this I mean a modernisation of individual armaments. Then we're talking about the standard weapon. We're talking about the same thing. Fifty gallons, the light mortars. We also want to continue fully with the program BEST (fight planes), you are not unknown. In addition, we want to pay all the attention to the connectivity associated with the modern way of operating Defense. We also want to invest in regrets against improvised bombs. As you know, that was also stated in the security analysis, the enemy today is no longer an army that is clearly recognizable to you. The risk today is rather in unrecognizable smaller entities, often without uniform. In addition, there are investments for the long-term employability of our land forces. Then I'm talking about upgrades to today's combat vehicles, known as the Dingo... and the Piranha... over the next 15 years. The replacement of the MPPVs and the LMVs will also start before 2030. The Dingo... the Dingo... the Dingo... the Dingo... the Dingo... the Dingo... the Dingo... the Dingo... the Dingo... the Dingo... the Dingo... the The Lynxes will also come out and be replaced. That's closer by 2030. This is in any case included in the global envelope we have provided. I will then deal with a first specific capacity within the Land dimension. Then I'm talking about the interweapon-motorized capacity. This is about an ambition level of employability in the form of battlegroups, one battlegroup on a permanent basis and also six months headquarters and a number of other options projected on the screen. We start from our existing capabilities, the median capacity we know today. However, we provide a full equipment of the individual soldiers and the necessary full support in the areas of Combat Support and Combat Service Support, so that we can offer our partners a complete package. A number of figures are now being projected on this subject. We are talking specifically about a capacity of about 6 500 people and investments of EUR 1.9 billion. For interweapon motorized capacity, a number of other investments related to the Land dimension will be made in the near future. As already mentioned, the fighting capacity of individual soldiers we have just shown. Other investments under Combat Support and Combat Service Support are investments in combat genius and artillery, where I think we should take the step towards precision artillery. Furthermore, there will be investments in ISTAR. This is a capacity that is still lacking today at European level and investment in this sense will be appreciated. We are also planning the necessary investments in safe logistics for the operations. We are talking mainly about replacing vehicles that are not equipped with ballistic protection today. You will see in the margin an option that was not taken today, especially whether or not we join a story by Ballistic Missile Defence, BMD. That's a discussion I'm going to have with the defense staff. BMD is a capacity that makes international rise, which is partly demanded of us by our partners in the context of protecting our own airspace in the case of Tops, - you know the Umbrella - and which could be part of the capabilities of the future for us and for the capacity of the Land dimension. It seems clear to me that the drones we have just mentioned can also serve here for the Land dimension and are mainly intended to support the Land dimension. I believe that the BMD is a gap in Europe and that our partners would appreciate investment in it. For us too, it could be a step forward in technology for our Land dimension. Let me be clear, that choice is not easy. We will work with the staff to see what the possibilities are. Either we keep the full monty or we may also participate in other programmes. This choice will also determine a number of other matters. As far as the homeguard element is concerned, as you know, we do not regard homeguard as a core task, but defence can be called upon in case of threat level three or four. Our existing capabilities will be used in the first instance, as they are today. In addition, we have also understood that there is a real desire from the reserve to cooperate, if necessary. I now come to one of our capabilities, which is demanded internationally, and which will also be one of the spearheads. In addition to inter-weapon and motorised capacity, as a longer-term deployment weapon, we need a rapid response capability. The Special Forces will play a central role in this, with a number of levels of ambition, including through the contribution to the Special Operations Command, through NATO cooperation, a staff expansion of the Special Forces Group, but also through the evolution of what is today the Light Brigade, the battalions paracommand, towards a Special Forces Support Group (Rangers), so that they can be deployed even wider than today, and in the short term. The level of ambition for this is projected. We are talking about a total of 870 people involved. It concerns direct investment of around EUR 100 million. We have looked at what are the specific elements in this respect that enable us to make a contribution that makes a difference and is a real added value for our partners. Special Forces air transport is almost non-existent in Europe as a capacity. We must therefore consider whether we can make investments in the future in this respect. As far as tactical air transport is concerned, you will find nothing on the A400Ms in the text, because we have already provided the necessary resources for their upgrades, when necessary, and for simulators. However, we are talking about the means for further equipment of the NH90 helicopters with ballistic sets, upgrades and armamentability. In addition, thanks to our investments that helicopters can use for medical evacuation (co-vac). In this respect, we are seeking pooling with the Benelux countries and cooperation with France and Germany, which have almost the same helicopters. For example, we are consulting closely with the Germans about greater cooperation in the field of stocks and maintenance. So with the investment in tactical medical evacuation, we are also trying to remedy a clear capacity gap of the NH90 at European level. In terms of military construction, we invest in trucks, cranes and kits for bridge construction. This is in line with our vision to contribute to peace-keeping, stabilisation and reconstruction with our army and therefore with our country component at a time of, among other things, preventing violence and not in a period of total violence, which should not be our ambition. Precisely with that kind of army effort, we want to make a difference. This is also appreciated by our partners here and there. Our investment of around 37 million euros and 300 extra soldiers is important in this respect. Our capacity for nuclear, chemical and halogenated warfare is very important and is internationally recognised. Today, we are mainly active in Afghanistan for that aspect. This involves significant investments with the ambition to work together interdepartmentally in Belgium and to create a high response rate in order to be able to operate effectively in case of emergency together with the Special Forces. Furthermore, it is clear that we need to maintain DOVO's existing capacity for the C-IEDs. This service is very important both abroad and in its own country. A significant investment is planned mainly in Poelkapelle, where we will have to continue the historic mission. I think I explained earlier that the choice for a battery of Patriots with all detection systems and so on, an important choice, is in the air. She hasn't been fixed today. Of course there are other possibilities than those of the full monty. What I'm showing you is when people go all the way. Other possibilities are still being considered by the defence staff, where one gets into the story, without having an excessive impact on the available budget. We need to keep a close eye on that capacity. As far as air capacity is concerned, it's about 2,200 men. With the multirole air combat capability, we maintain today's level of ambition, so that we can act at all stages of violence, both air to air and air to ground. This means that 6 aircraft are permanently operational and since we have an agreement with the Dutch to keep 2 aircraft permanently operational together, the level of ambition is guaranteed. Today we have the ambition to be able to deploy four devices in the short term for a more limited period. We cannot give up this level of ambition on the basis of the numbers as such, but we will consider how we can flexibly deploy a number of additional devices, if necessary. For example, the operation we are doing today in Latvia is not only an operation, but also a very important training for our people. Sometimes it can be the combination of both, which ensures that one can be used in several stages. As for tactical aerial fire support, it was mentioned the first time in the cyber and intelligence dimension, the second time in the capacity ISTAR, and now again. We'll go for modern drones, which are armorable. That choice can be made later. Today, therefore, we do not have armed drones in sight, but we do have armed drones, such as the Italians. A study will be carried out on MRTT (Multirole Tanker Transport). You may already know that we are following the Multirole Tanker Transport for a piece. We make scientific and technological contributions to this and, in part, financial contributions. We will continue to follow this programme and in the short term we will carry out a specific feasibility study. It is not just about the reduction in hours, as we have proposed today, but also about whether it is possible to carry out a full aircraft within the European EDA pool. I do not think I should convince you that our European partners, at the time of our decision, would welcome us with a loud applause. I have already mentioned the question of strategic transport, but I can add the following. The A400 muffins are on their way. They will be delivered from 2019. We provide the budgets to carry out the necessary upgrades. With regard to strategic transport, we will certainly also purchase two air-to-air-refuelling kits (AAR), which will help us fill in the enabling capacity that is so urgently needed within Europe. Perhaps the question arises, if we buy those A400-Matches, why we are still participating in the MRTT. The important aspect is that the MRTT is really a multi-role device that can also transport people and thus can be used in completely different ways than just the refueling kit on the A400-M. As far as command and surveillance aircraft are concerned, you know that we are now participating in NATO's AWACS programme. We shall continue this cooperation. The investments in them are not direct, because they go through the NATO budget. I believe that the AWACS is the only capacity directly managed by NATO itself. Our people working today on the NATO base in Geilenkirchen therefore continue to work. You have also seen a lot about the maritime component in the media. In this respect, there is cooperation with the Dutch on the Surface Combatant capacity. The committee members have visited Den Helder and are able to form a very good picture of it. The cooperation within the Benelux Admiralty is based on frigates and mine hunters. We take our share in that. As you can see, there will be fewer crews on the frigates in the future than there will be today. The frigates will be fully equipped, including fregathelicopter based on existing types. The intention is to equip them as they are intended by development. With regard to mine control, we can maintain the current level of ambition by replacing six mine control systems within the same party. They will be more multi purpose, which will reduce the need for investment in a command ship like today. Our level of ambition is clear: two permanent units and one for ports and shallow water. It is important that additional investments are made in operations in shallow water. As for the Coast Guard, we have the now two-year-old Castor and Pollux. We keep that up-to-date for an amount of 6 million euros. We therefore remain active within the interdepartmental maritime information intersection in Zeebrugge, where we sit together with customs and police. We will therefore have unlimited use on immediate call of 1 coastal patrol vessel. As mentioned above, we also have port protection sensors for the water section. This is specifically a question from NATO about the capacity gap at European level, but that is also interesting for ourselves, since we do have a number of ports that are not economically insignificant. Then there's two more studies going on. The first is about the possibility of participating in the Dutch Marines programme, where we could proceed to set up our own company. It's not in Den Helder. It's in Vlissingen that these people operate. When we look at evacuation operations and urgent interventions that have taken place over the last ten years, we see that the vast majority of them consist of marine infiltration. So that is a very important element, and that is why I think we should consider whether it would be interesting to develop a piece of capacity in it. We also consider, in the context of our own needs but also in the context of general European cooperation, whether it is possible, not through investment but through the use of people, to make a Belgian contribution to the Karel Doorman, the Dutch joint logistics support ship, which is important and makes an important contribution to the European fleet as a whole. It can be done through people, and it can be done from time to time from a helicopter. In relation to support, I'm just going to present the figures, but you'll see that some very important choices were made here. In terms of command and control, say the general staff, we will have to work much more efficiently and more easily. What is today's HR and Formation, we would prefer to talk about competence management, and I will come back to that in terms of content. It is mainly about the people but also about the centres of competence, which today have different dimensions. Its maintenance requires 3 000 people. Medical support will remain on the level of staff, with a clear focus on operational support and preparedness as a function of operational support. Then there are a number of things that we need for our own needs, but which are also exchanged interdepartmentally on a regular basis. For example, there are support for flight safety and weather forecasts, and so on. There are also air traffic control, the Territorial Command, the laboratories and so on. That's where 2 000 people work. As for our participation in international commands, the number of defence attachés and people working for my services and myself, the military or military personnel employed outside their own military apparatus, was already phased out last year. There will still be rationalisations, so that we will reach about 420 people. To round up the bill, there are also the students under military regime. If there were a total of 25 000 people working for the Defence Department, there would be 1 150 students in training in a normal competence management system within the Defence Department. Here too, a lot of investments are planned. They will depend on the choice we make at the BMD level (between 200 and 280 million). These include updates and replacement of support vehicles, runway equipment, generators, semi-shielded trucks, connecting vehicles. We will need to discuss these choices regarding the BMD with the Defence Staff. I now come to the important choices that are being made and to the capacities that will be abandoned in the future. As you know, my predecessor has done a lot of rationalization. Many specializations have already been carried out and many capacities abandoned. Even now, a number of things are no longer to be done. First of all, I am talking about the Mistrals that are at the end of their lifespan. They are no longer relevant for the future, or at least insufficient to maintain capacity. It is also true that the famous Agusta A109s have too little to offer for the operational deployment. They have tried to convert some of them into medical evac helicopters, but their capacity is simply too low to play a decent role in that respect. In the context of rationalisation, to spend every euro spent well, it is important to partially replace the expensive deployment of the NH90 and train a number of skills on a cheaper use, in particular the A109. It is still under consideration, also in the context of the key tasks currently under discussion with other security services, how to add value to this. For example, it would be possible to equip the devices for surveillance to provide support to police and civil protection. They are no longer used for military tasks but for training, so for a socially useful task. I know there are discussions about the color that the helicopters should have. Since they won't be used as military helicopters anymore, that color doesn't matter to me. This brings me to the principles of implementation. As far as personnel are concerned, as I said when the plan was presented to the staff and unit commanders, but also to the social partners present in this Chamber, I am confident that we will find solutions in terms of capabilities and investments. The biggest challenge remains the management of personnel. We have reached agreement on the figure of 25,000 staff (military and civilian) for Defence. We agree that a deployable army with young military personnel is needed, with the goal of having an average age of 34 in 2030. We also want greater dynamism, which requires reflection on a new military career that would meet the needs of Defence, but would also offer the prospect of an attractive career for our military. This is a new challenge, but I am sure we will be able to meet it. It will be important to take account of competition management, starting from the recruitment of the military until the latter leave the army and it will be for them, as part of an outplacement support, to find a job in other security departments or in the private sector. Another principle on which we have agreed is that of rationalisation. I mentioned it at the beginning of my presentation. Everything we are going to do will be done effectively and efficiently. This means that in collaboration with the staff, we are looking at how structures can meet the needs of the future. With the quota rising from 32,000 to 25,000, it is clear that the structure must adapt to this new reality. Rationalisation at the infrastructure level is not a fetish, but rather a control of all the tasks we carry out. Thus, if the tasks are not specifically military, we need to consider whether it is more appropriate to allow them to be carried out by an external body, or by the civilian market. For a Defence, which is well linked to the civilian world, it is important to have a regional distribution, not only at the neighbourhood level but also at the capacity level as well as at the personnel level. I have already answered several parliamentary questions on this subject. This theme is very important and we will find solutions to give guarantees in this area, which is not a real problem. Another principle is the principle of cooperation that I have already mentioned. When we talk about the defence of the future, we talk about cooperation, whether international or interdepartmental, i.e. with national or international security partners. Mr Dallemagne, I come to a last principle that you noted when a purchase file was discussed. From the moment this government makes the decision to reinvest for the future in Defence to the tune of €9.2 billion, it is very clear that we need economic participation from our country, whether in scientific programmes, technological programmes or jobs. This is a sine qua non for the large investments we intend to make. Otherwise, we would not have the support of the general public. Every military supplier in the world knows it's important. It should be noted, however, that European regulations do not make matters easier. We are currently looking for legally correct solutions, but it is not easy. You'll normally get a note this month. At that time the quarters will not be included. We know what we're gonna do, how much money and how many people we're gonna do. It is now possible to discuss how and where this is best organised and structured. Let me be clear, the government wants to get rid of this quickly, again because there must also be clarity for the people of Defence. We shall therefore proceed with this in the very near future. That will happen in interaction between myself and the general staff. As a starting point, this will be the first start of the implementation plan, the cabinet and the general staff have decided to come together physically as well. The strategic working group of the staff itself will therefore involve offices of the CHOD alongside my own cabinet, so that we can work directly together on a daily basis. We are moving towards a solution that first responds to the effective military needs in the context of the levels of ambition of the future. In addition, we will, of course, have political consultations within the government, as well as consultations with the representatives of our employees. That's the obvious thing. That is the method we adopt. As far as interaction with Parliament is concerned, I am open to any interaction, question, suggestion and anything you can imagine. On the working method, we can make a number of agreements, perhaps not today, but at a forthcoming committee meeting. If questions are asked, I will always answer them, but perhaps it would be good to convene the committee on a regular basis and in a more structured manner, to produce an interim report and to answer any questions. I am well aware that you have a lot of questions after this presentation. I will perhaps reply to you a few times later that this is part of the implementation phase and that it is therefore too early to give an answer today. I myself am asking you to report to the committee on a structural basis, so that you too are involved in the coming story.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for this very comprehensive presentation. At the request of a number of members, could a copy of the slides submitted be made available?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u4	Mr. Chairman, the presentation was public, so the documents are public. A full document will be ready within a week. I can give you a copy of my presentation, but for greater clarity, I think it is best to wait for the full document.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u5	We would risk being traumatized as we have never received any documents before!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u6	When will the final plan be available?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u7	The strategic plan is a living document. The written document will be ready within a week. We are entering into management agreements with CPS. This document is therefore a contract between the staff and me and is intended to provide direction for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u8	The documents were presented to us publicly, in front of the cameras. Can parliamentarians have a paper or electronic copy? I'd like to insist.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u9	The documents are available to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u10	Minister, will the document you are going to send us be the strategic plan or will it simply be comments on what you have shown us today? I understand the notion of living document, but if it is to give us a work in progress, tell us when we can have a fundamental debate on your options.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u11	Mr. Hedebouw, I think you've been here since the beginning of the meeting. I told you that we know the budget and the number of people involved. We know what we're going to do. Therefore, we have a strategic plan. On the other hand, we have not yet decided on the modus operandi. Studies are under way in this regard. We will discuss this within the government in a very short time. If you want to consider my presentation of the strategic plan as a "little comment", it's no big deal. A framework has been established, but we still need to rule. An annex will be added to these documents and will focus on our infrastructure choices. If you are intellectually honest, you must understand that it is difficult to opt for a particular place when no decision on the budget and the number of people has yet been made. A strategic plan is being developed in several phases.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u12	Everyone will be able to participate in the general discussion. I propose that colleagues who wish to speak should do so very briefly. Each group will have the opportunity to speak in the order we set out at the beginning of the meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u13	Mr Minister, the question is very simple. Give us the strategic plan, DOD. We have now received a PowerPoint presentation and we will receive a document next week which you say we can call it a strategic plan or a small background document. We want the strategic plan Defense and not PowerPoint. I assume that you are not making your policy on the basis of a PowerPoint, but on the basis of the strategic plan. You have that. The government has decided to allocate money to this, albeit with a long horizon, but we will talk about this later. Give us the strategic plan. The question can only be that simple.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u14	Minister, let us not make this a polemic. You gave us an extremely interesting and detailed presentation, which outlines a strategic plan. I leave my ears behind and I hear that, in the ranks of the majority, this is not the strategic plan. You have provided us with this really detailed, useful, interesting outline on which we are going to hold our substantive debate; when will we have a government defence policy paper for a matter of clarity?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u15	Mr Minister, I would like to supplement the questions put by the other Members. I am beginning to have my doubts as to whether there is a strategic plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u16	In that case, Mr President, we must stop the discussion today. After all, I am here to discuss the strategic plan. Mr Top, if we do not have a strategic plan, we must stop the discussion now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u17	Mr. Secretary, let me finish. I also asked you to speak when you explained your PowerPoint presentation earlier. During the Christmas holidays, a number of proposals for investment were published in the press. Afterwards, a number of interplays were followed by myself and other members. It is very likely, as a result of the interplays, regulation and work of the Defence Committee, that you will now be presenting this presentation here. It's no more than that. I have great doubts as to what the Council of Ministers has just approved. You talked about the budget and the staff. Has the Council of Ministers already approved what is on the PowerPoint presentation in a detailed note? If that is the case, we ask you to submit that note. After all, you yourself point out that it is still being described. I repeat what you said earlier. The strategic plan is a dynamic note. You have even added a word, a living note. Does the Council of Ministers just agree that you will continue to change and supplement the plan and keep deleting things from it? At some point, you made a decision. I would like to see that strategic plan here in committee. That's the only question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u18	Mr. Top, I didn't dream here, did I? The Minister gave me a very clear presentation here. I assume that this presentation has been worked out in consultation with the government. The key tasks, the investments and the number of staff involved in these core tasks and investments have been clarified. These are strategic choices made by the current government. I propose that we begin the discussion on these choices. You can be for or against those choices. However, the fact that you are already starting to ask for a course of action is a sign that there are not many substantive arguments. We have received a great deal of clear information here. We have also received figures and the strategic vision. Let's start discussing that information.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u19	Mr President, I just want to say this. I like semantic discussions. When I was a member of the opposition, I dared to start such a discussion when the other arguments had been used up. Let me be clear. The coalition agreement is pretty clear. It stipulates that the Minister will come forward with a strategic plan, which includes a number of elements. If the question arises in the government as to whether this is a strategic plan, then I can answer that as far as I am concerned. The majority and myself think it's a strategic plan. Others will say that it is not a strategic plan, because the decision on the barracks has yet to be taken. That's what the coalition agreement says. That's right. The question of whether it is a strategic plan can therefore be answered both yes and no. (Protests from Mr Vriendt) Mr De Vriendt, you can imagine that behind this PowerPoint presentation there is a small amount of mathematics and a small number of documents. One needs a wheelbarrow to bring them in here. However, as I have just explained, we would like such a document to be correct. That's why it's gonna be a while. We are talking about very important amounts of money here, so there should not be too many loose ends to that. The technical working groups have examined five different scenarios. The government finally decided not to take out one of the five scenarios as such, because then I would have presented the strategic plan here, but to make some minor changes to it. You may be surprised, but I can confirm that this is related to the story. One cannot just pull out an element and expect the rest to fall into place. If you remove something from one side, it will have an impact on the other side. What have we done? I said that at first. The government approved the number of people and the investment budget and decided on the large investment amounts. That was communicated after the decision. I understand Mr Pirlot saying in interviews that the land component is completely forgotten. There are much smaller amounts of investment for this dimension, but we will have that discussion in a moment. So there's a strategic plan. If you want to have a semantic discussion, you should do it. We will certainly translate this into a written document, which will be correct. The document will appear in the various national languages and will be both a director for the general staff and a public communication to clarify what we want to go to. You don't have to be understanding. All I'm saying is that we want to do it right, and that takes time. It will not be a small note, but a large document. Mr. President, I've been here since 9:00. May I ask you to pause for five minutes for the round of questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u20	I propose that we take a five-minute break and that Mr Pirlot then begin with his inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u21	Colleagues, the minister can stay with us until 1:30 p.m. He then has a briefing. I therefore propose that each group intervene and gather its views in about five minutes, which will give us time to have a reaction from the minister and then a reply. Let's start working like this. We will then assess whether the substance of the debate has been reached. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Pirlot, who introduced an inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u22	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the presentation of this framework, this outline. I want to say that after a gestation of eighteen months, the mother has just arrived in the waiting room and we are waiting for the loss of water before a possible delivery to the forceps. As you have answered some of the questions raised in my inquiry, I will make some changes to this one. At the end of December, the government deposited a beautiful gift package at the foot of the fir tree of an army in arrears following the budget cuts it imposed on that department. This gift package announces a series of decisions: a global budget of 9 billion euros made available for the investment projects necessary for the dimensions earth, air (including 34 fighter jets), sea and for cyber intelligence by 2030, modernisation of personnel policy, statutes, training, knowledge management within the organisation and maximisation of the economic return relative to major investments. As glittering as the packaging of this gift is, the decisions presented as essential were made before the definition of any strategic plan, despite months of delay. In addition, you invented the gift on credit, since we obviously don't know where that $9.2 billion will come from, given the fiscal straitjacket that is imposed on you, except by postponing these policies to the next government. For my group, if we are not opposed to the principle of an increase in the army's budget, it is still surreal to define such investment in equipment that amounts to billions and ambitions in terms of personnel without having defined a level of ambition beforehand. You mentioned 34 planes. I'd like to know how you got to that number. You talked about air politics, and so on. Beyond that, the question of the rays of action comes into play. So do we only want interventions in our periphery? Do we want to go further? Are you involved in high- and low-intensity conflicts? What about the inability to transport any nuclear weapons? It is well known that all these elements will at some point influence the choice of the manufacturer. And I still doubt whether a government has decided on such options before committing itself to a possible strategic plan. You're also announcing 25,000 military personnel by 2030 as a government choice, but it's not really a choice. Indeed, the age pyramid at the army level is relatively easy and, in any case, compared to natural departures, we will arrive de facto at this figure. If we are to maintain these 25,000 military personnel by 2030, it will take much more than the 700 recruitments per year currently planned. What I fear is that these 9.2 billion are a camouflage tactic to mask the lack of agreement within the government, the weakening of the military status, the regal function that is yours and, quite simply, reductions in staff. I will not ask all the questions that I had planned, since you have partly answered me about the formal decisions that have been taken, both in terms of people and in terms of strategic and budgetary matters. However, I would like to know whether these investments are exclusively based on NATO logic. Indeed, I looked at the map you presented at the beginning of your presentation. There are NATO intervention zones (near the East, the Middle East, the Sahel, the eastern flan with the Russian threat). I was a little surprised to see that Central Africa, which is, in a way, our traditional area in terms of political influence, did not appear on this map. Can you tell me if this is a voluntary choice or an oversight? Last December, Mr. Reynders pleaded for an investment in defence. Could you tell me if any investments are planned before the end of this Parliament? How will the 9 billion announced be financed and on what schedule? I will not go back to the question of the progress of the various planned purchases (hunting aircraft, frigates, deminers, drones, supply planes, equipment for the earth component) to which you have already partially answered. On the other hand, you have announced that the economic returns of these investments will be maximized. How do you intend to do this because Minister Peeters, whom I have asked in this regard, has not really made any progress on this issue? Will the federated entities be involved, not merely informed, in terms of economic, technological and academic returns? However, a consensus was reached on the arrival of the agencies. It would be desirable for the latter to be accompanied by an industrial representative. Indeed, since they are official agencies, they will not be able to give us much information about the real economic benefits that could be expected. In terms of personnel, we will naturally reach the figure of 25,000 people, without any real choice. How do you intend to make the status attractive when it is ultimately a CSD? Do you already have any leads to maintain a minimum level of engagement? You also referred to the modernization of personnel policy. On the basis of what social dialogues will this modernisation be implemented? What avenues are envisaged in this regard? In addition, the Government has announced the presence of an additional 2,500 police officers on the streets, nearly half of whom will be former military personnel. How will this transfer be organized? Do you intend to establish platforms or equivalences between your department and other federal public services? Even if I know that you are not going to answer me, which proves that this is not yet really a strategic plan, is a date set for us to hold a debate on the second part that will come, that is, on the geographical distribution and on the closure and rationalisation of barracks? I'm still hungry about some things we're not talking about. What about the medical component? Do we integrate it into aid to the nation, which would become a kind of humanitarian component? And what happens to memory work? However, I note a positive point in this outline, framework or premise: it is the focus on intelligence and cyber defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u23	There is one good thing about the Defence Plan: it recognises the importance of the Defense Department. We have to take it seriously. It is a serious pillar of a foreign policy. It also confirms that the continuous, too easy, downward spiral in the budget is coming to an end. It seemed like a downward spiral without an end. It was the last resort of a money-seeking government. They'd go to the D.O.D.'s. That was irrational and unwise. The Strategic Plan does not seem to me to be rational enough and too much of a political compromise. You don't make enough real choices. Even after this plan, we remain an army that does a bit of everything at once. However, expectations were very high. According to my group, you're going under the bar. In the air force, we replace the fighter planes, but not all of them. The army has a serious decline in personnel, but at the same time we invest in new material. For the Navy, we maintain our current level of ambition. We replace what needs to be replaced: the frigates and the mine hunters. Those are the main pillars of your budget. Why does Belgium not go fully for a very high level of ambition in one, two or three capacities or dimensions? Why do we not excel in a specialization, pre-spoken with as many European partners as possible, in order to provide as much added value as possible to foreign, international military operations? I notice in your Strategic Plan that you will try to fill some capacity gaps. That's right. Tank aircraft - air-to-air-refueling - are a capability gap; Special Forces, idem dito; intelligence, cyber defense as well, and Special Forces Aviation. We can add others to that. I think it is enough to look at a number of military operations from the recent past to see where, for example, the United States had to step in because Europe could not do it alone. I would like to know from you how much of that EUR 9.2 billion goes to a European capacity gap and how much does not. Perhaps you could do that on another occasion. That's an arithmetical exercise you should make on your cabinet. I think this is necessary. This specialization means a division of labour, à la carte or within Europe. You can play there and be flexible, as we do today with collaborations with France, Germany and the Netherlands. Ideally would be with as many European countries as possible. However, that European dimension is far too lacking in your plan. I hear far too little about that. I've read contributions from people who say we need to evolve into a multivalent army or we need to remain a multivalent army. I don't think so. I think that's an illusion, because what does our army serve? To perform. But even after this Strategic Plan, our army will still not be able to carry out its own military operation autonomously. We're gonna have to work together, so go ahead with that logic. That is a first point. A second question concerns the investment budget of EUR 9.2 billion. I'm asking for clarity. How much will you invest in this reign? I find it easy to say that we will invest EUR 9.2 billion by 2030. How much will you do now? How much will you do in the next legislature, from 2019 to 2024? I cannot really talk about you or even the government in this respect, so I am just talking about politics. How much will politics do in this legislature, in the next and subsequent legislatures? You cannot bind the next governments because you do not even know whether your party will be part of it. So I find it a little easy to just push that forward. Your division into staff, operation and investment, the notorious 50-25-25 distribution, is ideal, we have to go there. However, it is all too coincidental that in 2030 you will end up with that distribution just a few percentage points. That's a good job. In concrete terms, however, we need to know what will happen in this period of government and what will happen afterwards. I hope that you will actually do something during this reign. A third point. Have any agreements or promises been made about the two air bases in relation to the reduced fleet of fighter aircraft, without any doubt, within the government? Is that even gonna work? Can we actually justify military-technically for efficiency reasons that we have two air bases in our country? Is this a sample of Community waffle iron policy which you are already incorporating or which you are already incorporating into your Strategic Plan and its further development? Fourth, the six drones. If I'm not mistaken, your table included a sum of EUR 550 million in those six drones. Isn't that a mistake? Is that right? They're recon drones that, I suppose, are unarmed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u24	Armable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u25	Armable, so they're capable of carrying armament. That 550 million euros means almost 100 million euros per drone. Is that right? Yes. Finally, one final question. Mr Minister, did you consult with your European colleagues before you went to the Council of Ministers to come to the lines of your European plan? I would like to know from you what choices which European partners can agree to. What are they getting into? What will Belgium do? What will Belgium not do more than be taken care of and compensated by other European countries? You have listed a lot of investments, but what investments do other European countries take complementary steps to achieve a strong European capacity? The European dimension is missing. However, it is crucial for a well-functioning Defense Department. Is the choice for 6 mine hunters and 2 frigates discussed with the Netherlands in advance? How do they fit in with the Dutch plans? Finally, there are the fighter planes. The choice of fighter planes has a huge budgetary impact. She's also a bitter pill for the Navy. We had the best chance of making our navy an exemplary Navy in a European context, an extensive Navy of high technology. The BeNeSam, the cooperation of the Netherlands and Belgium, could be an example for the whole of Europe. You're late to choose. The people who have been to Den Helder know that there was indeed a demand to take a step forward. But Belgium does not do that and continues to rattle on the spot. I think this is a wrong choice. Belgium does choose fighter planes. It is eager, as a small country, to go bombing with the big boys: with the Americans, with the British, on the first line in conflict. This is not our job! Belgium is a country that can specialise, and has already specialised, in other tasks, which are better suited to our budget, which is still limited, even by an additional EUR 9.2 billion. Of course, it's no surprise that this is happening. But also here, we go from just over 50 fighter planes to 34. So far, Minister, the questions I would like to put to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u26	Before giving the floor to Mr Buysrogge, I would remind colleagues who were absent that the minister must leave at 1.30 p.m. I will therefore ask them to gather their comments in five minutes in order to allow for a full debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u27	Mr President, it is good that you say this just after your group colleague has spoken. I would like to make two comments in advance. Firstly, I can throw my question, as it was tabled, into the wastebasket, since the Minister has already answered many of my specific questions. Secondly, I would like to ask the party or Mr André Flahaut's group to use my full speaking time, because I understand that this could be a problem today. All madness on a stick, there has been a long time, even years, asking for a future vision for the Defense Department. In the coalition agreement, a plan had to be presented within six months. I admit it took longer. The minister's work was done, but the government took a little more time. Now it's there and I think it looks impressive. I congratulate you on this, Minister, and so does the federal government. This plan meets our expectations. In one of my first speeches in this Chamber in Parliament, it sounded like Defence had to become a mean and lean fighting machine for me. Are we doing this? We learn from the Minister's explanation that this is indeed the case. The focus is on the military's employability and there is investment in combat capacity, so a mean and lean fighting machine. Let us return to the resolution No 2 April last year. 988. He came to this committee after intensive work, with a whole bunch of hearings. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, you had quite a bit of criticism of the resolution at the time and found it narrowingly insignificant or meaningless. In my humble opinion, it is being implemented in this strategic plan. I'll take them to remind you of a few points. Are we committed to efficient defence as a credible international partner? That was one of the points in the resolution. Check. Are we ensuring a better relationship between staff, operation and investment? Check. Is there a military programme law and a clear investment budget or are they coming? Check. Should I keep going? Is there a focus on military core tasks, generation management and rejuvenation? Check. Is there any attention to social consultation? Check. Is there any use of cyber and intelligence services? Check. I can go on like this for a while. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there are many threats to our region and to Europe as a whole by enlargement. You described them. Both from the south, the east, the north and perhaps even the west, there are risks. One threat is more visible than the other. Not only geographical threats, including other threats such as cyber attacks, are phenomena that we must face. In addition, given the risk of attacks, more than ever our territory and, more importantly, its inhabitants, we must be able to provide adequate security. That is why this government is rightly committed to safety. Defense isn't in there on an island. The intelligence services, both State Security and ADIV, are strengthened. The police will be given extra opportunities. Defence is also given the much-needed means in this plan to arm itself against present and future risks. This strategic plan is in line with that. I would like to focus on eight points for our group, Minister. Firstly, to strengthen employability. The individual soldier must be equipped with the necessary equipment and modern high-tech protection. You'll do it. There is a focus for this employability, Mr De Vriendt. The Minister focuses on the development of an unfoldable fighting capacity for the different dimensions. I think this is a very important focus. Secondly, the investments linked to them. No, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister is not just investing in combat aircraft. The overview of investments between now and 2030 is impressive. The Special Forces, the frigates, the mine hunters, the drones, the minister has listed it all. Thirdly, Mr Dallemagne will be happy to hear it, the economic return of investment. Investment has a direct interest in the defence apparatus, which is obvious, but there must be a structural return for our economy, for our society. For us, the various regions are best taken into account. This too is important for our group. Fourthly, as the Minister stressed, the medical component is important. For example, he referred to investments in medical evacuation. Anyone who says the medical hatch just disappears is wrong. Fifthly, there is a modern management system according to the philosophy that structures are there to fill needs. That is an important principle. The structures must be linked to the needs. This is done by the reduction of government and by the rejection of a number of tasks. The aim is to increase efficiency and rationalize; people are getting rid of breeding. There is a change from components to capacities and dimensions. In short, all the concepts put forward by the Minister are important in the context of modern management. Sixth, intelligence and cyber security are being deployed. The latter was not a classic component, but it does invest in it. With the scope at 2030, this component will only gain in importance. Seventhly, we are once again becoming a credible partner at international level. As Mr De Vriendt said, this position was somewhat under pressure, partly because there was an underinvestment in defence compared to other European NATO countries. As was confirmed many times during the hearings, our Defence personnel were still performing very well on international operations. We're back in. We are not just investing in NATO. The Minister stressed that the European perspective is also important. Eighth, our soldiers can finally be proud again. For years, almost every budget round was heavily saved on Defense. Due to the increased threat of terror, the military now regains the respect of the people, because he or she was able to prove his or her usefulness to the country's security. Now comes this ambitious plan with a future perspective. There is investment in the company of the military and in our security and there are opportunities for flexible career switches. In short, the military can be proud again. In addition to Mr De Vriendt's question, I have a specific question about the involvement of trade unions and international partners. To what extent has this plan been discussed with Europe, neighbouring countries, NATO and trade unions? What's the timing? What was their reaction? Finally, your invitation, Minister, to involve the committee further, is obvious. I believe, Mr President, that we must respond to the offer of a structural exchange of views on the plan and its follow-up plans. The committee should consider how we will deal with this in concrete terms in one of the following arrangements of work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u28	Check, Mr Buysrogge. Mr Top now has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u29	Mr President, Minister, as I have already said, I would have expected more today than what was presented here. There have been more questions than answers. I am, of course, pleased that you have presented a number of choices with your presentation, but they also cast doubt on me. I agree with Mr De Vriendt that a long-term choice is being made. It is a long-term perspective, but in the current legislature we see that only a reduction in budgets is proposed. The prospects envisaged are for the next legislative periods, from 2019 to 2030. Will the development of the choices and the decision on certain purchases go as fast or slow as the preparation of the strategic plan itself? There will have to be some speed in the filing process. That's my first thought. In part, your strategic plan is new with regard to some of the choices you make. I refer to the example of the study on an alternative to ballistic missiles in the army. It's being put into a study. It is also a matter of making choices and taking decisions in such a way that we do not mean the members of the committee, but the citizens and the military know which direction we are heading. I also have doubts about certain choices that you have made. This can mainly be linked to and measured by the estimated investments. Let me get this straight. You come to EUR 9.2 billion. I am taking out the biggest chunk of it, at least until yesterday, because suddenly the amount has fallen. On 34 fighter aircraft today, you're putting on an amount of about 3.5 billion euros. That is strange, because in all the estimates and calculations that other countries have already made, I refer to the Netherlands and Canada, the amounts for a fighter aircraft and for the renewal, maintenance and modernisation of the aircraft are higher during its lifetime. The total amount is higher there. Therefore, I have the greatest doubt about the amount of EUR 3.5 billion that you are giving up. Then I'll go into the two frigates and the mine hunters. You yourself just presented the article in Knack, which states a sum of EUR 2 billion. Globally, the land component comes to some EUR 3 billion. If I include my figures, which I drew up before I knew the figures for the replacement of fighter aircraft, then I come all together, with the investments in the navy and the land component, at a higher amount than EUR 9.2 billion. I come to the conclusion that you yourself have already made in a reply to the press. You asked whether the plan was feasible. You pointed out at the time that the increase in the budget would be feasible if gross domestic product were to grow again, which would enable us to carry out these investments. That was an answer you gave yourself in the press. I doubt whether you will even get there in that case, because I have my doubts about many of the investments you have listed. A number of investments, and of course smaller investments, are not yet included. A final observation is a statement that I could only see from the sidelines until 2015. In the past, all government purchases, especially with the Defense Department, were more expensive at the end of the journey than they were originally estimated.The future will tell. It should be better in the future, so that it will be a good thing, if you do get those figures. Otherwise, I'm not sure. After all, I expected to get a little more clarity today. Many committee members have asked many questions about what would happen to the medical component during the parliamentary year. You have put forward proposals and put forward an idea on the medical component, although I am no longer allowed to speak today. The question of what will happen to nuclear non-proliferation is also important. Not a word has been said about that. There's a study for Search and Rescue. The question of which barracks will be closed or will remain open is for a future plan. So there is no answer to that question either. You intend to invest in intelligence services. That is good and it is also our question. However, in view of the situation in our country and Europe today, a more concrete explanation of the way in which we cooperate is a question which is best resolved in the short term. During the previous legislature, investments were made in the A400-Matthews, but until today, however, the decision on the place where they will be stationed has still not been taken. Let me give you an example of the slow way in which decision-making takes place. The aircraft in question will soon be delivered in years to be seen. Finally, I would like to talk about the choice of the level of ambition. I am referring to the level of ambition that you indicate for the various areas of activity. I am no longer allowed to talk about components. For the army, you say, the level of ambition is not the highest spectrum of violence, and so is the other. But I will come back to the fighters, because you have said that it is the intention to act abroad and in conflict situations, so you are choosing the greatest spectrum of violence in this area. In our opinion, that is a unfortunate choice. It seems to be a choice made in your plan, but in our opinion that choice is unfortunate. You could have used these resources better for the other components, which could then be operated in a better and more elaborate way. If you don't mind, I'd like you to show me that slide on the screen. That's where the battleplanes are assigned. You're indicating that we're dealing with 30 fighter planes plus four in attrition. There's a word in there...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u30	Multi-role.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u31	Yeah, but I'm talking about a new generation of fighter planes. Now you can deny it, but until a few months ago it was always said and written that the new generation of fighter planes is a specific type of fighter plane, one type, better understood.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u32	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u33	Unless the manufacturers now also claim that they belong to the new generation of fighter planes. Then it would be good for the manufacturers if they could prove it. If, however, that is not the case, while that type is chosen, then it is clear that the choice also applies immediately to the air bases that remain open and the bases that close, is it not, Mr Ducarme? In choosing the fighter planes I therefore have a number of questions. In your explanation of that slide, you have just indicated why you need so many devices. A certain number can be deployed, some are in reserve and some are in maintenance. However, I wonder what kind of organisation or cooperation we will operate in with that number of aircraft. If there is no concrete cooperation yet, how can we pin ourselves on 34 aircraft? Another question that was not answered and I do not know if it will ever be answered is whether these aircraft will have nuclear capacity and which partnerships will be associated with it. Finally, what time schedule do you propose to take the next steps specifically in this purchase file? The President insists that we conclude, but you will see that we have more questions than just the specific points of capability of fighter aircraft and the funding and choices made. You have a great responsibility to clarify the next steps of your steering plan in the short term. I urge you to set a deadline for clarity. In your presentation, you paid a great deal of attention to it: the staff are getting impatient. Everyone, from the highest to the lowest level, is eager to know what their future will be right. Finally, there was a question to which little was answered. I do not see any progress in your proposal on cooperation at European level. You have spoken a few times about the cooperation of the Navy with the Netherlands, but I also have my doubts. What steps have you taken towards cooperation at European level, to create better conditions and to agree on the deployment of personnel and equipment? Last but not least, with emphasis. You could choose to cooperate more closely with Development Cooperation. If you increase the budget for Defense, you should also pay attention to development cooperation. As has often been pointed out, prevention in other areas is still the greatest asset in our hands and something in which we also excel.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u34	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Christmas Agreement on Defence sets out a number of broad lines and decisions in principle. I understand the frustration and disappointment of some colleagues, but the Council of Ministers and the Minister have outlined a number of broad lines. We are, of course, very pleased that there is a draft with a realistic budget so that we can continue to play a credible role on Belgian territory, but also internationally. On one of the slides, that €9.2 billion was located to 2030 and we land at about 1.3. That is almost the European average. If you look at this more closely, you will see that this is an ambitious story. Minister, you have EUR 9.2 billion to invest. You said in your explanatory statement that there is a balance between the four dimensions. With regard to the content of a number of issues, I would like to ask you whether the army, the air force and the other components are equally covered and how this 9.2 billion is distributed among the various components. That's an element. A second case with regard to the EUR 9.2 billion, in one of the slides, I saw in the timeframe that investments will be foreseen from 2019 and 2020. You'll have to correct me if I've read that wrong. If that is true, this means that significant concrete investments will follow from the next legislature and that there will therefore be little or no new major investments during this period of government. I would like to make that clear. It would be a pity if we did not opt for a change of policy in this legislature. Thirdly, in line with the previous point, what is the mission of the army? What's the Navy's mission package? If we look at the capabilities, will the tasks remain the same as before? I'm worried about that. Which cases are being adapted or closed down? If we say that there is a balance between the different components and we ask for a commitment at national and international level, then I want to see that in the tasks of the different components. A fourth point concerns staff. There is ambition to have 25 000 full-time equivalents. There is also the ambition to lower the average age to 34 years. I believe that these are two important principles. Due to the upcoming retirement wave that is increasing from 2018 and falling again after 2020, I've requested the figures.I think we should take extra recruitment into account. Today, we recruit 700 soldiers a year. If we want to go to that 25 000 level of ambition and lower the average age, I think we will have to recruit more than 700 soldiers. According to my calculations, we should go to 1 000 to 1 200 people a year. Is that something you provide for the plans? Do you agree? If we do not, I fear that we will have problems on the ground and that we will never be able to deliver on this point. For the staff, it is important to know how the outflow will take place in concrete terms. If we really want to achieve those 34 years, we must also look at the status of the military. We must make this as attractive as possible. You say a life-time career no longer exists. That won't be the case with the DOD anymore. Then it must be attractive for young people to be able to work at Defense for 7, 8 or 10 years. A fifth point is about outplacement and outsourcing. You said in your explanatory statement that matters that can be settled by the private sector should be left to the private sector. That is a logical starting point in itself. In practice, however, this is not always the case. The main argument is that it is more efficient, it relieves the burden and one can concentrate on real military matters. However, if it only makes certain things more expensive, as was also said by the trade unions during the hearings, then that cannot be the intention. My group believes that it would be absolutely unwise to do so. We are also curious about the exercise that is currently taking place. Which cases will be outsourced and which will not? I am thinking, for example, of the security of barracks. Where is the border for you? I also understand that you are questioning search and rescue. That will be phased out. Are the Seakings still on our coasts? I hear stories on the grounds that they want to reject this to the private, where the invoice would be more expensive. For this they also look at the Netherlands. I think we absolutely must avoid this. There's still a study to be done on the white fleet. My penultimate point is about rationalisation. The practice on quadruples is under way. We can only talk about a Strategic Plan when all the elements are known and everything is worked out in detail. For me, however, the quarters are not a detail, but an important issue. That is also true for the military themselves and for their families. We have to make ready wine very quickly. It is not an obvious or easy exercise, but we must get the full picture for the quarters, taking into account, among other things, the regional distribution. I come to my final point. We have talked today about decisions of principle on the Strategic Plan. What are the next steps? There will be a steering plan and final, after approval in the government, you want to come to Parliament with a Strategic Plan. When will that plan be completed? When will you come to Parliament with a fully completed plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u35	Minister, I thought we'd be talking about the Defence Strategic Plan today. Not only do we not have this plan, but on the basis of your Powerpoint presentation, it is rather a beginning of a strategic plan of the attack. This is an opportunity, here in Parliament, to hold a more comprehensive debate on a philosophy. Rather, I see the issue of Defence, as federal jurisdiction, as the organization of the protection of our territory. I find that we have talked a lot about investments in order to intervene outside our territory, in many parts of the world, but not in our territory. This is the fundamental debate for me. For our group, Belgium's current foreign policy and its military interventions are not strategically the guarantee of our security. We find that, over the last ten or fifteen years, many interventions have demonstrated this fact. On 17 January, we will celebrate the results of 25 years of Western military intervention in Iraq. What is our country's record of this period of foreign military intervention and its impact on the current situation in the region? We should have this fundamental debate. It won't be a surprise to anyone, no more than to you, minister, than, for the PTB,... The PTB, the Labour Party, takes a very different view of the interventions. We can even see a certain connection between the situation there and our interventions. We intervened in Afghanistan and what is the result? We have intervened in Libya with bombing and what is the balance? We intervened in Iraq and Syria and what is the balance? What is the balance after Yugoslavia?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u36	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u37	Indeed, we have not intervened in Syria, you are right. The question is still under discussion. In any case, I would like to ask the question about its balance sheet. Minister, calm down! Blow a blow! I know that you are disturbed by the substantive debate, but we are in Parliament for that. As Minister of Defence, we need to keep calm. You still have important prerogatives in international diplomacy. Restons Zen! A second important point for us is that the debate must be democratic and transparent. We have already discussed it, we still do not have any documents. That is certainly a problem; a written document is needed in order to be able to hold a debate. I would like to ask a few specific questions about the various investments. Firstly, in terms of transparency, have there been contacts between lobbyists and interest groups in the military industry, on the one hand, and the cabinet, on the other, with regard to making the various investments? I would like to have a list of the various meetings that are taking place with representatives of the military industry. Furthermore, in order to have a deeper budgetary vision, I would like to join my colleagues in asking for the opinion of the Court of Auditors. With regard to infrastructure investment of $9.3 billion, I will make it clear that we are not in favour of it, Minister. There is a choice regarding the level of the budget. As you know, your Prime Minister has kept repeating that it was austerity, that there is no money. There is a relative choice to make. We are not in a period of abundance. In this relative choice, I believe that spending 9.3 billion on the purchase of frigates and aircraft, while there are so many social needs and direct needs (railway, social security, the immense needs of our population), is a bad choice that leads us straight into the wall. This will lead not only to even more violence outside Belgium, but also to increasingly worrying social situations in our country. I'm gonna focus on the planes. You seem to have a pretty clear idea of the cost of these planes. In that case, you may have a pretty clear idea of the model we're going to buy. Prices are still quite variable. Can you tell Parliament what these planes are and what the criteria of choice have been? In my introduction, I asked you whether a parameter such as the ability to carry nuclear warheads was retained in the selection of future aircraft. It's not an anomaly question. I remind you that we do not have nuclear warheads and unless we find them somewhere, there is no need to buy this type of device. I'm worried about that. I am concerned, minister, because if we were to find nuclear warheads to wear, they would be on our territory and that would be illegal. You are aware of the international non-proliferation treaties to which Belgium is a signatory. I would like a response from the minister on this, as we are far enough in the process. Let us remember that the total budget for these investments (9.2 billion) is EUR 1 953 per Belgian household. This is an important figure and we must be able to communicate it to the population. A study by the Flemish Peace Institute and the University of Antwerp has shown that a large part of the population is not in favour of such investments. You won't be surprised that in the Labour Party's electorate, 75% is against those purchases, but it is even more interesting if I look at the N-VA, for example, 57 % against - and CD&V - 47.9% against. It is interesting to see that the support for such an investment is very small. The democratic scope of this type of investment seems to me to be very weak. We need transparency and that is why we are asking you for the texts. Indeed, people do not know your notion of living text. We're changing a little bit. A little to the left, a little to the right, a little to see... No! We must clearly mention the intentions of the government to hold a genuine democratic debate in our society on the policy of peace or the policy of war that we want. In terms of employment, you want to turn many real jobs, soldiers' jobs, into investments in equipment. It is the great strategic choice that is made today: let us replace men with planes and frigates! That is, in a way, the choice that is being proposed to us today. I am surprised, first of all at the level of the public service, that a prime minister, who was constantly calling for jobs, is now increasing the number from 32,000 to 25,000. As soon as political plans are drawn up here, they are submitted to the National Bank. Could you simply introduce what you call a small technical annex to the National Bank to take into account, in modeling government plans, this 7,000 job reduction that you intend to establish at the level of this public service? You will have understood that this integration in time is not our cup of tea. You started your presentation on the various dangers. It seems important to us, Minister, to be able to pursue a policy of peace. You explained earlier that you wanted to invest in Patriot missiles. Going back to an armed auction has already revealed where it led us. Also, I want to argue that your investments are much more focused on prevention, diplomacy and reconstruction. For you are saying quickly in your plan that it is important to pay particular attention to the reconstruction of the territories, but in fact it is very rare, after the wars, to invest in this matter. This is the record of our interventions: they are failures! We have to think about their cause!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u38	Mr President, Minister, it appears that we will not have the opportunity to hold a real debate. I therefore ask you to organize how we can go into this strategic plan in more detail. It is important that we have a thematic debate. This is a general exchange of views. We need to address this fundamental issue, which commits us for 15 years. I would find it interesting that, for a quarter, we could discuss each theme of the strategic plan. That seems essential to me! Minister, this is a good exercise. You've done a really interesting, useful job. There are few precedents. You have taken advantage of threats and missions to assess the necessary investments and how to organize yourself. As a first point, I would say that we are not familiar with the status of what you have presented to us. We're talking about a dynamic plan, I mean it's not really a strategic plan. We will need to be reassured quite quickly and I believe that the best way to do this is to send us a document quickly that reflects everything you have said and on the basis of which we can conduct a thorough discussion. By nature, any discussion is dynamic, but we need to be able to set things up and build on a strategic plan that will be clear, clear and on which we can work. What are the weaknesses and difficulties on which I would like clarification? With regard to your conception of missions and threats, I was struck by the fact that your map of the world was limited to Europe and its margins. This is important, but we must avoid succumbing to the besieged fortress syndrome. Similarly, our vision of international security must not be confined to European territory. We will certainly discuss it. Implicitly, you want to withdraw from certain places, such as Central Africa where we were traditionally, to turn to the borders of Europe. You'll have to enlighten us about that. We will have to discuss what we are going to do across European borders. Secondly, I have heard you talk a lot about collective defence and I can support your objectives in this area. On the other hand, I see less what our participation in international security will look like. You mentioned the United Nations missions. But I see that we are almost absent from it. What will be our projection capacity beyond Europe? What will be our ability to contribute to the efforts of the United Nations in terms of collective defence and security? Also, a few slides were missing. I do not see what the plan for European convergence and integration in defence will be. Of course, you have said that you will make efforts in this area, but it seems to me essential to know how we are going to converge our efforts in terms of defence and security. Belgian Defence no longer makes any sense if it is not truly integrated into a European Defence, the first step of which is partnerships with our neighbours. They need to be clearly and accurately reflected in our strategic plan. How will these different partnerships converge towards a European collective defence? When we make this effort over 15 years, this element must be fundamentally well-recorded. Today, we are only in the drafts, but we do not have the feeling that this European integration and defence effort really appears to be a central element of your strategic plan. But it must be. I am not going back to all the components, but to a somewhat paradoxical effect. We have the impression that we are reinvesting massively in defence. In fact, part of the equipment that was at the end of the race is replaced. Will we therefore really have more ambitions than those of the past? I take the example of the aerial component. You tell us that we will have the possibility to deploy 2 planes plus 6 (2 in 15 minutes and 6 in 3 days). Today, we can do more than that. It's 2+6+4. This is therefore a reduction in our air capacity. In terrestrial matter, there is a rise from 32,000 to 25,000 men. Here too, we are not really in a redeployment. Rather, we're in a decline in our ability to respond. I know that the great armies with a lot of troops probably belong to the past, but today I see the difficulty you have in making men available both to ensure the country's internal security, to do training exercises and to deploy men on the international stage. You can't do it! Let's be good at it! In a few days, when frigate Léopold returns, there will be only 300 military personnel outside our borders. That's not much! What will be our ability to project Belgian military personnel, permanently, outside our borders? What will be our contribution to international security? These elements, absent in your future defence plan, must, in my opinion, appear in it. I sound the alarm that, every year, Belgian Defence loses a thousand men. We cannot continue indefinitely in this way. The essential element, which many others have noted, is obviously the following: you have the feeling that you have written the general policy note and the strategy of your successor. Until there is evidence to the contrary, and I am waiting for you on this point, we must change the sentence in the government agreement which states that there will be budget cuts until the end of the legislature. So far, it remains the Bible. There is a 20% decrease in budget appropriations compared to the previous legislature. It is written as such in the government agreement. I know that every year you manage, through a series of envelopes, to recover certain funds, but we are not in any case in a growth exercise. We are at best in an exercise to slow down the reduction in the budget. I would like the government to be clear about this and not to throw a gun at the budget. Will there be a real reinvestment in relation to the figures of the previous legislature? As far as industrial return is concerned, I am calling for an investment fund, and I would like you to implement it. This fund would be a public-private partnership with the defence sector and companies, and with the federated entities, since industrial policy is also a competence of the latter. I want a public-private inter-federal defence investment fund. Strategically, if there is to be a return on investment, investment and popular support for it, such a mechanism must be put in place. It's important.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u39	Mr. President, I cancelled my 1:30 p.m. meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u40	In any event, we will have to close our work no later than 2.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u41	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the Minister for cancelling his meeting. For their part, the parliamentarians we are have made their arrangements so that this interesting exchange can continue. Without dying of impatience, we were waiting to see you arrive with a number of key data related to the strategic plan. At the same time, agreement has been reached at the level of the government on the broad guidelines on essential elements of investment. In my view, it was worth waiting for, given the results achieved today in defence matters. It should be noted that National Defence is recovering after its 25-year degreasing policy. It is clear that we are practically in the bone and that there must be arrangements such as those you are bringing to us today. Whether it is from the opposition or the majority, I think there is an awareness of the reality of the Defence. There were very strong calls from the old CHOD. General Van Caelenberge also spoke. We have emerged from the tradition of the great mute and have seen a number of key National Defence officials speak to politics, to parliamentarians, to the government, to the Minister of Defence. It is clear that if we had put black on white, at the level of this majority, our intentions in the framework of the government agreement with regard to these essential investments, what we see today is that we are emerging from a negative spiral. In 1990, we were at 2.6% of GDP in terms of defence spending and today we are at 0.9%. It is clear that the programme, as announced in terms of investment, to the tune of 9.2 billion, allows us, as you have shown in your table, to join the European peloton. No doubt the other European countries will also increase – we will see it by 2030 – but, in any case, we are getting National Defence out of the tunnel. We take a different path than we have been for 25 years. Among the key elements of the strategic plan that you are presenting to us today is this one. We are joining a trend that is beginning to emerge at European level. For twenty-five years, since the end of the cold war, we know, all European countries have disinvested, believed, like the PTB colleague, that there was no need for national defence or army, that all this was useless. Today, of course, there is a start. We see what is being produced at Belgian level, we have seen what is being produced at English level, we have seen the reactions on the budgetary level for Germany. Thus, there is a return to a form of realism in relation to the need for operational national defences to be able to act at the national security level, to participate in international security solidarity and in terms of collective defence and external projections of a number of theatres of operations. It is clear that the list of investments is impressive because it is a question of replacing our F-16s in practice. Why 34? Perhaps it would be interesting to have an explanation of that figure. It is linked to budgetary capacity in these investments. I imagine that this figure meets a number of imperatives, both in terms of European security, European missions, and in terms of national security and the projection of these aircraft outside: frigates, drones... I take up the point raised by Mr Dallemagne, and it would be interesting to have segmented debates based on the investment we are talking about. We are talking about six drones: two Americans and four Europeans, but to do what in terms of observation and strikes? We're talking deminers, MRTT. The replacement of MPPVs and IVAs was also mentioned. You know my interest in having a balanced investment for the Earth Component. In the debate on this strategic plan as a whole, the aim will be to have vehicles replaced for the Earth Component so that it can have sufficient equipment. The MR has been repeating this for a number of years: given the investments that are planned, it is a matter of ensuring that we see our industries getting involved and thinking about economic return. That's essential! Remember, the F-16 order had produced thousands of jobs for our country. We also have a duty to think about this aspect. Beyond these important investments, we will see exactly what will happen to the military programming law. Here, these are the main axes, a strategic plan that is likely to be comprehensive and detailed. Thank you for already providing us with the broad guidelines. It is true that, given the expectation, it is important to be able to already have an exchange with you on these issues while waiting for the plan as a whole for the spring. But I expect in particular, beyond the plan, the concrete effects on programming, in terms of investment; that is, the law of military programming. This is the essential core of the process. This will be achieved. The key question in relation to the list of investments planned for 2015-2030 is: in concrete terms, what programmes will they really be launched under this legislature? It would, in my view, be a matter of making all the arrangements so that we can launch as many of these programmes as possible under this Parliament. Minister Flahaut's plan, for example, already provided for 48 F-16 successors in 2015. He did not launch this program when he was a minister. So it got lost on the way. We want, within this majority, that as little as possible of the choices made be lost on the way. Everything that will be done under this legislature will be concrete for the future. This is essential given the state of the defence, which we were talking about right now. We will come back to some elements. You alluded to the key missions. Of course, we will have to deepen the debate. You also mentioned multilateral anchoring, international security and NATO. We also know that European Defence is at a standstill. It's important, Mr. President! As far as projections are concerned, I must admit that I have experienced some tensions with your Christian Democratic predecessor, Mr. From Crem. However, in terms of international security, we were able to project 1,000 to 1,200 men. Today we're at 460. We should therefore probably raise the level of ambition. I obviously feel reassuring that I was able to get to know the Opex for this year. However, we are still far from what we have accomplished in the past. I will conclude by addressing two issues that relate to staff. This is not often the case, but in this case Mr Pirlot is right. Mr. Minister, you mentioned 25,000 military personnel. I will respond to Mr. Hedebouw, so that he will be able to learn more about the Defence file and stop getting lost in meanderings as he has just done. It is clear that if the number of military personnel declines, it is because between 2019 and 2025 half of them will retire. If we are to achieve the target of 25,000 military personnel, we will have to recruit more than 700. On that, Mr. Pirlot is right. Given our attrition rate, we must recruit at least 1,400 military personnel. Or we lower the rate of attrition. Anyway, it's getting better in terms of attrition rates. On 2012, 2013 and 2014, it stabilized at least. But it's still 60% and that's a question. Our National Defence will need to be more attractive. We will have to get out of the sufficient minimum imposed by the socialist minister. It is a necessity if we are to maintain the attractiveness of Defence. I come to the last point. The MR has an obsessive side in this area, we are very attentive to the linguistic balance at the Defence level. We may even be fetishists in terms of balance in terms of future rationalization so that, of course, there is a regional balance in quantitative and qualitative terms as well. In this regard, I thank you for having also clearly presented this element right now. This regional balance is indeed essential. It is an important mark linked to the confidence that we can have in this majority on this subject to which we will remain attentive.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u42	Mr President, first of all, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is particularly pleased that the ten great principles and the lines of the strategic plan have been worked out and approved by the government in such a way that words can now be translated into action. There's still a lot on the shelf. Secondly, it is important to define the commitment and payment appropriations necessary for the next few years in order to achieve the objectives which we very much support. Thirdly, over the past year in the committee, we have always argued for a slimmer and, above all, more performant army, which can be deployed and fulfil its international commitments and obligations. That is what we find in your plan, for which we support it. Fourthly, we have always said that the starting point should be the internationally established 50/25/25 key. That was our logic. You are marvellously able to go from 78 to 48.3 %. That is also contained in the plan. This means, of course, that your commitment to developing a staff plan will be the cornerstone of the strategic plan. After all, military personnel have shown a great deal of patience and great concern. However, I understand that they want to participate in the reforms, provided that clarity is provided in the short term. It is important that the new statute itself is a challenge and that flexibility is included in it. Striving for 34 years is actually the logic itself, but one has to put it on paper first. You are competent for civil service, so you are the ideal person to work on a modern statute and personnel policy for our armed forces. Colleague, we are indeed going to 25 000 men. When the government talks about jobs, jobs, jobs, it doesn't mean government jobs, it means jobs in the private sector, which are economically profitable. Mr Minister, there is indeed a huge wave of pensions on the way. According to your figures, almost 2 000 people will retire in 2018. This is a threat, on the one hand, because of the disappearance of know-how, but on the other hand it is also an opportunity to implement the reform now. In seven years' time, between 10 and 12 000 people will retire. So it's a crucial moment to make the change happen. Then don't waste any time. It's time to act. Mr Ducarme rightly points out that, on the one hand, a balanced distribution of troops across the territory is desirable and, on the other hand, the basis for successful recruitment. There's no contradiction in that. I am also curious about the way in which you will address the greater problem of attrition in ordinary soldiers than in officers and petty officers, where the drop-out during training is much lower. We must be careful that we do not create a waterhead and that we have it well under control. As far as the operation is concerned, you are aiming for 25% resources. In this way, we can indeed be a supportive and relevant partner in NATO for the European strategy, which, if I am not mistaken, will be presented in June 2016. We continue to advocate the government's 3D approach. It is essential that we continue to develop our cooperation with our neighbouring countries. However, let us not forget that, for example, in the area of protecting the airspace of the Benelux countries, we are one of the pioneers of cooperation. We're doing the same thing to the Navy right now. Opportunities can only be offered. Finally, the Achilles tendon of the whole plan is undoubtedly the financing of investment. EUR 9.2 billion is a huge amount. Minister, last November and December I followed the debates in the Finance and Budget Committee. It's gonna be a hell of a piece of work to get the investments going. By reducing the number of staff, you automatically create budgetary space in your own envelope. However, more will be needed to deliver on the ambitious plan in the end. We are available as your ally and interlocutor to continue the discussion here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u43	I intended to speak, but in order to move our debates forward, I propose to keep my questions for a further debate. I give you the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u44	Mr President, first of all, I will answer questions about choices. I like to hear that we don't make real choices. Of course, it's one or the other. Either we say: we continue to do everything, or we say, like Mr Dallemagne, that we leave everything. It's one of two. I made it clear in the presentation that we will not do everything, but that we will continue to work with the four dimensions. I'm talking about dimensions, not components. My fellow Members who like to talk about components are thinking about structures. I'll come back to that later. In any case, I believe that we are making concrete choices. Do we do new things? Absolutely: what we will do in the area of cyber, in the area of intelligence and in the area of drones, the contribution we will possibly make to BMD. The choice of new capabilities has really been made. Today we have a number of levels of ambition, but we cannot achieve them, because we are not equipped to do so as we should. Our commitment will always take place in an international context and will probably never be fully autonomous. We note that we often have to ignore our commitment to peace-keeping operations, stabilisation operations, crisis operations and so on, because we either do not have enough material or do not have the right equipment to make a contribution. That is why we say: we are now committed to something we already know, albeit under a different form of engagement, battle groups, but we are committed to interventions based on fully equipped interarm companies and interarm-battle groups. If this isn't clear, I don't know. The people who think we need to specialize even more, I recommend that we talk to a number of specialists. I can always make names available, and really not just names from the right-hand side of the political firmament. Secondly, I will talk about the amount of investment. Mr Pirlot, as I read in La Libre Belgique today, that would not be enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u45	Isn't it you who say that you must never believe what you read in the newspapers, minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u46	Mr Dallemagne, we are talking about 2%.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u47	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u48	The 1.5% percentage is a minimum percentage. We need to put everything in perspective. Mr. Ducarme said that we were at 12.6% of GDP in the 1990s. Today, we are at 1% of GDP. This is not only due to the government's budgetary restrictions, but is also the result of 25 years of disinvestment in this area. For those of you who think that EUR 9.2 billion is incredibly high and priceless and that the resources for this can never be found, I would just like to stress that, when we talk about the next 15 years and in constant terms at an annual average level of government spending of EUR 200 billion, and we are reducing it to EUR 9.2 billion, you will be at 0.3 %. The proposal I am making, and I think it is a balanced proposal, is a proposal that we are putting ourselves back in the peloton of Europe. At the same time, however, it is not a floating proposal that would not be financially viable. It is quite clear that choices will have to be made in the future, especially when it is only within primary expenditure. Overall, it is a reinvestment, based on an environmental analysis, of 0.3 % that we spend on foreign security. I think that the increase in that budget is really worth defending. You asked a number of questions about the starting date and how it will all go. I want to be very clear there too. This government puts a socio-economic recovery policy at the centre of its work. In other words, we must ensure that our economy and budget are in order in order to reap the benefits of what we are doing now to correct the failing socialist policies of the past 25 years. In this sense, it is necessary for everyone, to the extent that they can, to continue to contribute to the health of our public finances. I'm convinced of that. The government has committed itself, within the possibilities available to us today, to examining in the short term the extent to which we are already making investments and not only commitments but also liquidations. There may be a number of technical possibilities for this, but Europe in particular is a problem there. So far as the level of investment is concerned. As far as personnel are concerned, I have said in front of the staff and unit commanders, in front of the unions and in front of you, the great challenge of the plan, as Mr. Van Mechelen said... The cornerstone will be the staff. I am well aware that it is not enough to recruit 700 people, as we are doing today. As a minister, I will have to stick to the budgetary tables that have been imposed on me. I often have no other choice because of the short deadlines for achieving the amounts, than a choice that has an immediate impact. Unfortunately, the recruitment is one of them. Mr Yüksel, I can confirm that there is a need to recruit 1100 people a year. I have also said many times that there is a lot of mathematics, preparation and discussion behind everything I tell you, at political level, with the specialists of the various Vice-Kabinets and my own cabinet. We have made an exercise of the recruitment that will be necessary. In the short term, we do not see much other possibilities than to move forward as we are currently doing. In my view, we need to look at the extent to which we can be more flexible in recruitment so that we can take immediate action to remove the identified attrition and to retain more people more quickly. Moreover, between now and five years we will face enormous recruitment challenges to meet the desire to end up with 25 000 people. I'm aware of it. We're working on it. You are asking me for a lot of concrete information. In terms of human resources policy alone, we have identified some 15 projects that should be part of the implementation. This gives you an idea of the complexity of that whole. Mr Pirlot, how will this be done? Social consultation is very important to you. It is also true for this government. I can confirm with all of our colleagues here that we already agree on a list of points that we will discuss between ourselves and for which, I am convinced, we will find solutions. Some have already been found The consultation will take place as planned because it is very important, on the one hand, to have a skills management that meets our needs and, on the other hand, to offer an attractive career to the military and civilians working in Defence. So much for my staff answers. Let me now turn to the other questions. Mr Pirlot, in La Libre Belgique too, you are talking about 18 months. However, I have only been a minister since October 13, 2015. Which isn't 18 months. I hope that's the only mistake in what you're saying. Otherwise, how will we finance the $9.2 billion? We'll have to make choices. This will also depend on the benefits derived from the savings measures taken by this government. We have already asked several times where the number of 34 aircraft comes from. Well, that's very simple. We have our ambition level, we have a global budget and we want to achieve something in there. If we take into account an ambition level of 6 aircraft expeditionary and 2 in our own country with a number of others, provided that we have some flexibility, we will arrive at a minimum of 34 aircraft, regardless of which brand it is. There could be 33 or 35 of them. That's not so important today. We've got 54 F16s today. Every future aircraft, which is without exception of the fifth generation, has much more possibilities with regard to the simulations. In simulators one can train exercises that are not advisable in real life. The same goes for the simulators in the army. Mr Pirlot, I do not entirely agree with you when you say that this plan is exclusively directed towards NATO. Mr De Vriendt wants this to be a bit of a believer. I said that we are looking at international security from Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u49	I didn't say that. I asked you the question because I had not seen Central Africa appear on the map.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u50	I'll tell you later. Regarding NATO exclusivity, we looked at where we could be complementary and with whom we could work. At present, we are in the strategic plan stage and it is still too early to decide, for example, who will buy the aircraft. We haven't made any choices yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u51	Did you decide the issue of nuclear power?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u52	There is no question of nuclear power at the moment. We are not in this phase of the programme. As far as Central Africa is concerned, if I have not talked about it much, it is because we continue on the same line. We're not going to invest more, but we're going to think about better targeting our investments. We see that investments must be made on an ongoing basis, because if we stop them, what has been achieved will be lost, as happened in Afghanistan. With regard to the timetable, Mr Pirlot, I have shown the slide on which we see the increase in investment. I will prepare a programme law in which the type of investment and the period will be explained. The commitment is in year X, the liquidations leave in year Y and will run over that period. The whole is planned in the Programme Act with a gradual increase to avoid sudden large dips. At the heart of the whole story is the need to achieve a proper balance between investment, operating costs and wages at the same time in our budgets. As far as geographical debate is concerned, everything will be set up. Now we know what we're going to do. We'll see what happens next. Mr. Ducrame said he'd be very vigilant. That is what I said to the unions in particular. We have representation in the government, and sometimes it's not bad to trust that we can reach a solution that suits almost everyone. But, for the PS, it would be difficult to say that there is a good solution but still...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u53	But you don't know what I think...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u54	I suppose you think, Mr. Pirlot... Mr De Vriendt, I repeat that I do not agree at all with the lack of a European dimension. It is clear from the tables and also during this presentation about the capacity several times what one sentences is to do together. That there is still no clarity about the partner because there are different partners on certain issues. There is a clear difference of opinion on how to get there. We all strive for security and peace. The question is whether this will have to be done at European level. I don't think we're ready for that. I already answered that question in an interview. I see that the first 30 years do not happen in Europe. I absolutely believe in a more coordinated European defence. In this sense, we are taking concrete steps and have had concrete consultations to examine what is desirable or not. I believe in building a European cooperation from the bottom up with concrete projects, such as BeNesSam, the Quick Reaction Alert (QRA) together with the Netherlands, the maintenance of the NH90 together with the Germans, the training of the pilots together with the French, the cooperation with the Special Forces with the French, with the Dutch and with the Danes. From there we build further. That is the way to create a more European coordinated defence. I have noted that Europe itself is working on a security strategy. You blame me for not standing anywhere, but I can tell you that it is even worse in Europe. There can be intense discussion of ideology. In any case, I believe that I have taken effective steps towards a more European coordinated cooperation and in a number of places the European capacity gaps are being addressed. We don't do everything. We make choices. You also ask how much goes to the capacity gaps. However, the question is how this term is to be used. Is it just about capacity gaps or as a need or as a combination of the two? It is not always necessary to invest very much to fill in the gap. For example, if I want a number of millions for the medical equipment of the NH90 in order to use it for medical evacuations, it is clear that this will fill a capacity gap. This does not require a very large investment, because we already have those helicopters, but it is a very important contribution. On the other hand, the MRTT is a major investment, which is EUR 300 million, which is why it is still under study and therefore requires a little more thought before taking a decision. For the drones, it is EUR 550 million. You should not forget that drones do not fly by themselves: they also require ground stations and equipment to know where they are. So that really is an expensive instrument. If you google to see what a REAPER costs, you will indeed find other amounts, but that is without a ground station, detectors and so on. When we talk about weapons systems like this, we have to look at the whole system. Those who think drones are a cheaper investment than fighters, I must at least disappoint. Let's talk about the choice of partners. As I said earlier, the strategic plan defined a number of direct strategic partners, in particular our neighbouring countries. Who did I contact? I saw my German colleague a month ago, my Dutch colleague two months ago and my French colleague three months ago. Two months ago I also had contact with the secretary of state of my British colleague Fallon. Therefore, there were indeed review discussions. Did I ask them if this was a good idea? No. That round of questions is about to start now. I have preferred to finish the strategic plan and get the government's approval, and then first and foremost to approach those directly involved, being the people of Defence. I did that last Wednesday. Wednesday afternoon, I saw the syndicates. I also said that I do not communicate in writing. I reply to the people who say here that they received nothing on paper that it was a choice on my part, precisely because I came to Parliament. If I had distributed this last week, I know that the first discussion here would have focused on the theme "we don't know anything and it was the media that informed us". You would say that you knew nothing, that you should have heard everything from the media, let us be honest with ourselves. I made that choice on purpose. It's one or the other. I have already replied to Mr Buysrogge's question as to the extent to which the plan has been discussed. As far as the further involvement of the Defence Commission is concerned, as I said earlier, we need to see if we can find a way of working together. Mr Top says he expected more. Well, I can tell you that since 13 October 2014, I have been working on that plan every day with the question of how to make Mr Top happy. Mr Top, you must, of course, bear in mind the challenge, see what step we have taken. It's a strategic plan. In it we set out the beacons, the broad lines. We've defined the left and right limits of the firing field, and we now know what we're in. That is ultimately the strategic plan. The short-term choices seem clear to me. I can say, as Mr Ducarme pointed out, that we will be completing several dossiers in this legislative period. We will present it and anchor it in that way. To this end, we will need a programme law, which will give us the legal basis for making those decisions. That's what it's all about, D.O.D. As Mr Pirlot said, the A400-Matthews were ordered by then Minister Flahaut, while I will pay part of them and my successor will receive them. That's our department's own thing. One also has a question about the study on Army and the BMD. A choice has been made in this respect. Mr Dallemagne also made a comment on the number of staff. There will be fewer people in the Earth Component. You like to talk about the components. I can reassure you: if this component brings together 10,000 people, there are no 6,500 in operational battalions. That's where we have to make a difference. It is also a personal challenge. Mr Top, in relation to the cost of aircraft, you say that EUR 3.5 billion is too little. I have already said that we must always be careful what the round does about prizes. What do we know and what don't? For example, we know that Brazil has paid 130 million per aircraft for SAAB. We also know, for example, that Israel has paid USD 3.6 billion for 33 aircraft. The question is always: what is in the purchase package and what is not, for example, how long are spare parts supplied, there are simulators included or not, and how many. It's hard to estimate. Anyway, there is a balanced division between the four dimensions of Defense, which is also feasible. I'll talk about the components later. It is a bit like with Mr Devriendt's question whether the price of drones is wrong. We must be careful what is generally used. We don't have all the information today. We won't have it until there's a price on paper.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u55	Mr Minister, it strikes me that when we compare the different figures of the dimensions or components as reported, the figure for the replacement of the fighter aircraft is estimated to be low, while other estimates are more realistic, based on previously heard figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u56	Mr Top, totals are always the result of many calculations. The figures are indicative; there may be some margin of 2 to 3 million, but they are the result of serious calculation, I can assure you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u57	The future will tell.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u58	That's realistic. You made a remark about the cost and that it always exceeds the estimate. I will give you three files that I know and where that is not the case. The RVVs were several million eruos cheaper. The cost of the fire trucks delivered last year was between EUR 3 and EUR 4 million. And the Castor and Pollux patrols were also cheaper. So I do not agree with the general saying. The same applies to NATO, the files that have been dealt with by us are a lot lower than the estimate. 34 pieces is the result of the level of ambition, with so many training hours, so much this and so much that. That's a clear choice. Mr Yüksel, we are going to make commitments, as soon as we have our programme law, we are going to start. In addition, we are looking for ways in which we can actually take bigger steps now. Suppose the economy attracts faster than expected, then I as a trade minister will demand my share of the cake, it's as simple as that. In relation to the division into components and dimensions, one must always pay attention. Take the drones, for example. Drones are being deployed for the land component. But drones usually sit with those in the air. The A400-Ml will not be used for the air component, which will be there for the land component. So one has to pay attention. I was talking about balanced, I don't take words like that lightly in my mouth. In connection with recruitment, there was talk of 1 150 students. I presented that, that's a match. Outsourcing and outplacement, where is the border, also in search and rescue? Let me be clear, search and rescue is a government contract and is with us today. The Seakings are getting out, we all know that, they're coming to the end of their lives. We're planning to do that with an NH 90, but the NH 90 is a device that's overqualified for that kind of work. It seems to me normal for us to look at how we can work most efficiently in terms of good management of our resources. This also applies to all the tasks we carry out. That's not fetish for me. I am not an ideological outsourcer, but I do think we should look at every task in order to see what is the most efficient way to do it. And if we're gonna outsource, it's gonna have to get better, too. I have few limitations in that respect. The Americans are outsourceing security from the base in Baghdad. We are not talking about this in Belgium, but it is a fact. In the very short term, we will complete the study on quarters. I will also make political proposals on this. You understand it's a difficult exercise. It will be quiet for a long time and suddenly there will be an agreement. That's the M.O. The implementation plan will be fully launched. We are in the process of defining some projects. They're at least impressive. I said earlier that it was only about personnel policy. In the social dialogue we are dealing with more than 50 dossiers. There's a lot coming for us. I like Mr. Hedebouw's speech very much because it comes from the heart. On the other hand, its content reflects its lack of knowledge of the file. We have to be honest with the figures when we talk about a decrease of 7,000 units. Indeed, I said that we're going from 32,000 to 25,000, but it's going over time. Secondly, it is not correct to say that there are so many social needs that require resources that it is not a priority to grant to the army. There's a need for security. Of the €200 million budget, over 100 is devoted to social issues and I ask for an increase of 0.3%. That's all I'm asking and that seems important to me. I'm learning that there's a problem in "Yugoslavia." I'm going to ask the SGRS to analyze the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u59	A comment on the situation in Iraq?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u60	With Iraq, we learn that we must learn from the past. As you have read in my own analysis available on my website – if not, I encourage you to read it – I say that we must take into account what has happened in Libya and that we must apply an integrated approach – 3D-LO. I myself, as a minister, and the members of this committee do not say the opposite. I fully realize that the ideal solution is never to resort to military intervention. However, I am convinced that the military element is part of a comprehensive solution. We clearly have a difference of opinion here, but I appreciate the differences between ideas, particularly with the PTB. International contribution is one of the primary tasks of Defence. Mr. Dallemagne's gone. I'll answer his question. Mr. Ducrame's gone, either. Mr Van Mechelen, we are working on the problem of attrition. It gets better. I think I've gone into that. We do indeed have a very great challenge for us to ensure that we can offer our people an attractive career. We are already working on this today. The figures of attrition are also getting better, as Mr Van Mechelen himself mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u61	We have a few minutes left before the end of this committee. I propose that the groups wishing to reply do so in a minute. I'll be intransigent over time. I'll start with Mr. Pirlot.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. Despite the vibrant tribute of our colleague Buysrogge – I understand that you were of the same party as the minister – I do not share your wonder at what is being proposed to us. I want to say that you are especially fascinated by the beauty of the packaging and that you have not yet seen that the box was empty, but that is no big deal! As my speaking time is limited, I will be very constructive to help you finally complete this strategic plan. I am pleased to table a motion that outlines the broad directions of the motion. I'm sure it will help you. I only want the good of this country!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u63	Minister, there is much to debate. I hope, of course, that we will continue the debate. I believe that we have a different methodology and priorities. We are committed to division of labour, as much European cooperation as possible, top down. One can gather countries around with which one can go into specialisation and division of labour. Unfortunately, you didn't follow that road. I'd like to ask you one more question. Do you really expect to be able to make expenditure under the EUR 9.2 billion during this period of government? You literally say that if the economy attracts you will claim your share of the cake. Suppose this doesn't happen, then what? In your multiannual budget, you will save 1.6 billion euros until 2019. Will these annual savings be maintained? When the reverse trend, when the change?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u64	The government has not yet taken a decision on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u65	However, I believe we have a strategic plan here. It would be good if you could also submit a number of decisions on expenditure within your term of office.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u66	Mr Minister, when discussing the replacement of fighter aircraft earlier, you questioned that your plans suggested that one type of aircraft should be sent to one type of aircraft, the F 35. I referred to your slide in which you speak of the new generation of aircraft. The new generation of aircraft is the fifth generation of aircraft, as described in international sources. When I look at all the international sources, I see the F 35 every time in the fifth generation. The other four aircraft described and questioned in the survey are not listed in those sources in the fifth generation. I may be mistaken, or you have other sources that I would like to know. Finally, I would like to inform you that, like Mr Pirlot, I will also table a motion for a recommendation to speed up the progress of the plans and to make them more transparent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u67	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I am also pleased that you indicate that you will consider what matters can be realised in the light of the existing space. There's still a lot of work to be done. You also note that this could happen very quickly. Minister, I repeat my question about the expected timing of landing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-13-54-commissie-ic305x.u68	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr. Alain Top and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the questionings of Messrs. Sebastian Pirlot and Alain Top and the response of the Minister of Defence, in charge of the Public Service, asks the Minister - submit the strategic plan to the Court of Auditors and ask it to draw up an estimate of the strategic plan; - forward the note of the Inspectorate of Finance to the members of the commission; - to present to the members of the Commission a clearly articulated vision for the future of defence; - to transmit to the members of the commission a list of barracks that will be closed; - to organise a balanced geographical distribution of barracks; - to determine the exact impact of the proposed measures on defence personnel and to inform the members of the commission; - to comply with social consultation procedures; - to give priority to European cooperation in its strategic vision; - to set a deadline for the publication of details of its strategic plan." A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Alain Top and reads as follows: ' The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mr Sébastian Pirlot and Mr Alain Top and the reply of the Minister for Defence, in charge of Staff cases, asks the Minister for - submit the strategic plan and have it calculated by the Court of Auditors; - to deliver the note of the Finance Inspectorate to the members of that committee; - to submit a clear definition of the future vision for defence to the members of this committee; - submit a list of the barracks which will close to the members of this committee; - provide a balanced geographical distribution of barracks, - identify the precise impact on defence personnel and submit them to the members of this committee; - respect for social dialogue; - to put European cooperation first in its strategic vision; - set a deadline for the publication of the details of the strategic plan." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Julie Fernandez Fernandez and MM. Sebastian Pirlot, Stéphane Crusnière and Eric Thiébaut and read as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the questionings of Messrs. Sebastian Pirlot and Alain Top and the response of the Minister of Defence, in charge of the Public Service, asks the government 1. in the context of the options adopted by the Government in the field of military and civilian personnel, to ensure social consultation, respect for personnel, their training (in particular through the ERM) and their well-being at work; 2. to ensure that the Defence remains a reliable actor in the action of our State as one of its regal functions symbolized by the military function in its present status; 3. to ensure a sufficient number of commitments each year in order to meet the stated objectives in terms of staff; 4. to maintain as many tasks as possible within the army in order to make optimal use of the capabilities and expertise of military personnel without resorting to costly outsourcing and to avoid privatizing certain tasks of the army where only it guarantees ad hoc training and essential democratic control; 5. to ensure a linguistic distribution in line with the recommendations made by the working group 'linguistic balance'; 6. to ensure a balanced geographical distribution of military districts throughout our territory, taking into account, inter alia, the proximity of our country's employment areas and the consequences of the potential closure of certain neighbourhoods for the military and their families and the local economy; 7. to guarantee the necessary material, human, budgetary and training resources in order to ensure the international operationality of our army as its main mission within the European, UN and Alliance missions, keeping a focus on our historical geographical areas such as Africa as part of a so-called '3D' approach; 8. to ensure explicitly and concretely the European dimension of Belgian Defence in the implementation of the strategic plan, including pooling and sharing, as a priority for the various components, in particular as regards the provision of capacity, the purchase of equipment, the training of the military and the conduct of operations abroad; 9. in the context of planned major purchases, promote and give priority to strengthening the European defence industry, in particular through an innovative and competitive European defence industrial and technological base, with synergies between civil and military research and development in consultation with the federated entities in order to maximise economic returns for Belgium and its companies; 10. ensure that the financing of major investments decided by the government meets the needs of Belgium, Europe and the Alliance and does not postpone all the budgetary impacts of these investments after 2019; 11. to place Belgium and Defence firmly in the fight for nuclear disarmament within the framework of multilateral negotiations in which Belgium must continue to participate actively in order to free its territory from any possible presence of nuclear weapons and, in coherence, to ensure that Belgian military equipment does not have a nuclear transport capability; 12. ensure, in the implementation of the strategic plan, that 'Aide à la nation' remains one of the main tasks of Defence and that, when it does not use its personnel, equipment or infrastructure for its missions abroad or the preparation of such missions, it shall, at the request of the civilian authorities, make them available to the maximum extent and free of charge; 13. to guarantee the involvement of Defence in international solidarity, in particular through B-FAST; 14. to ensure the future of the medical component and the Royal Military Hospital as prerequisites for the foreign projection of our military personnel, their well-being and health, as well as for several 'Aide à la nation' missions currently carried out by this hospital; 15. to continue to make the Defence a major player in memory work and citizenship oriented towards young people who wish it and to ensure the federal anchoring of this memory work through the MRA, memory sites/heritage under the responsibility of the department and the reformed IV-INIG." A second motion for a recommendation was tabled by Ms Julie Fernandez Fernandez and Mr Sébastian Pirlot, Mr Stéphane Cruslière et Eric Thiébaut and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mr Sébastian Pirlot and Mr Alain Top and the reply of the Minister for Defence, in charge of Staff cases, calls on the Government 1. in the context of its policy choices concerning the military and members of civilian staff, to observe social dialogue, to respect staff, to offer their training opportunities (in particular through the KMS) and to ensure their well-being at work; 2. ensure that Defence remains a reliable enforcer of the policy to which the State decides, which is one of the regal functions, symbolised by the job description of the military in the current statute; 3. ensure that there are sufficient recruitments annually to meet the staffing objectives; 4. to retain as many tasks as possible in the military in order to make the most of the capabilities and expertise of military personnel without having to resort to expensive outsourcing and to prevent the privatisation of certain tasks of the army, in which only the army can provide ad hoc training and democratic control; 5. ensure a balanced distribution of staff among the language frameworks, in accordance with the recommendations of the Working Group on Linguistic Balance; 6. ensure a balanced geographical distribution of military quarters throughout the territory, taking into account the proximity of the employment pools and the impact of the possible closure of certain quarters for the military and their families and the local economy; 7. to provide the necessary material, human, budgetary and training resources to ensure the international operationality of our army, which is the main mission of the European, UN and NATO missions, while continuing to focus on the geographical regions with which we have historical links, such as Africa, in the context of a so-called 3D approach; 8. to pay explicit and concrete attention to the European dimension of defence in the implementation of the strategic plan, including pooling and sharing, which should be a priority for the various components, in particular with regard to the provision of capacity, the purchase of equipment, the training of military personnel and the implementation of operations abroad; 9. promote and favour the strengthening of the European defence industry through an innovative and competitive industrial and technological European base, with synergies between civil and military research and development and in consultation with the sub-areas in order to maximise the economic return for Belgium and its companies; 10. to ensure that the financing of the major investments decided by the government corresponds to the Belgian, European and NATO needs and that the budgetary impact of those investments does not shift overall to the period after 2019; 11. to ensure that Belgium and the Defence Department participate resolutely in the nuclear disarmament process in the context of multilateral negotiations in which Belgium must continue to actively participate in order to remove any nuclear weapons that may be on its territory, thereby ensuring that Belgian military equipment is not suitable for transporting nuclear weapons; 12. to ensure, as part of the implementation of the strategic plan, that the 'help to the nation' remains one of the main tasks of Defence and that, when Defence does not use its personnel, equipment and infrastructure for foreign missions or their preparation, it makes them available to the civilian authorities as much as possible and free of charge when they request it; 13. ensure that Defence remains involved in international solidarity, in particular through B-FAST; 14. to ensure the future of the medical component and the Military Hospital as a necessary requirement for the deployment of military personnel abroad, their well-being and health, as well as for the various assignments of 'help to the nation' which are currently being carried out by that hospital; 15. ensure that Defense continues to play an important role in the preservation of the memory and development of civic spirit, especially with regard to young people who ask for it, and through the KLM, the patrimony and the historical sites covered by the Department and the reformed IV-NIIO to anchor the preservation of the memory federally." A simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Peter Buysrogge, Richard Miller, Dirk Van Mechelen et Veli Yüksel. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Peter Buysrogge, Mr Richard Miller, Mr Dirk Van Mechelen and Mr Veli Yüksel. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
