ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u1	Madam Secretary, most of the drugs delivered in the officina are registered drugs. However, a smaller part, estimated at 5%, is prepared by the pharmacy itself magic beam. I had asked how much of the medicines are being prepared magically in our country, but that is apparently unknown. My question concerns centralization or outsourcing. A recent KB of 17 July 2014 allows the outsourcing of some of the preparations. To date, however, the official pharmacist is still largely bound by Article 33 of the 2009 Royal Decree, which defines six classes of majestic preparations that may be outsourced. These classes account for less than 5% of all majestic preparations delivered today via the official pharmacy. Madam Secretary, how do you evaluate the 2014 Royal Decree? Following the extension of the possibility of outsourcing on the ground, has the official pharmacy already used it? What are the initial findings of the pharmacists? What is your view on the possibility to outsource majestic preparations, so that better quality can be offered? In fact, figures are available on the errors that occur with the preparations. This shows that the figures are in line with the research conducted by Test-Achats. More than 30 percent of the preparations were found not to conform. How do you evaluate the current quality of the preparations delivered? Are there concrete plans to increase or tighten up quality control? What plans are on the table to expand the KB and allow outsourcing for all majestic preparations? When would this become possible? My final question is looking at the potential for savings, because controls should no longer be carried out in individual pharmacies but could take place centrally.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u2	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, the review of the Therapeutic Magistrate Formularium is being carried out by a subcommittee of the Belgian Pharmacopoeia Committee and for this third review, the Committee has called for a dynamic tool to be provided to healthcare professionals. This dynamic tool will allow the Therapeutic Magistral Formularium to evolve faster with the current knowledge of science. A number of technical barriers need to be overcome. The analysis also examined, inter alia, the reasons for the underdosing of low dose magistral preparations. This revision has already been completed in substance and indeed contains recommendations on the problem you are raising, such as the major error rate. The publication will take the form of a web page. The layout was finished in January 2016, so recently, in collaboration with the APB. The publication of the new Therapeutic Magistral Formularium is to be expected in the coming months. Each preparation must comply with the standards of the European Pharmacopoeia. In the analysis and assessment of the quality of preparations, the guidelines and standards of the European Pharmacopoeia shall be followed. In 2014, the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products launched an action plan to monitor the quality of the preparations sampled in the pharmacy in order to identify the causes of systematic non-conformity and to formulate recommendations to improve the quality of the preparations and to communicate them to doctors and pharmacists. The law, and in particular the Royal Decree of 21 January 2009 on training for pharmacists, already provides for indicators allowing the measurement and monitoring of the quality of the majestic preparations. For example, there are the preparation report, the weighing sheets and the protocol for regular preparation. These indicators, linked to the rules register and the register of raw materials, allow full traceability of the majestic preparations. Consultations are currently taking place between the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products and pharmacists' professional organisations to complete these indicators. In addition, consideration is also being given to the possibility of installing an autocheck to increase quality, for example through regular analyses by an approved laboratory at the initiative of the manufacturer. The transparency of the audit results will also be discussed in this context. Package leaflets of proprietary medicinal products are based on many years of studies carried out with a view to obtaining a marketing authorisation. That concept is difficult to apply to magistral preparations, which are by definition made to suit the individual patient. However, preparations made on the basis of the Therapeutic Magistrate Formularium may use the indications, side effects, precautions and other data specified in the formularium. The possibility of making majestic preparations in groups is one of the things that we have put forward in the conceptual note we have given to pharmacists and on which they are addressing our question. Could it be a solution to organise themselves together in order to increase the quality of the majestic preparations and optimise their production? Everyone will only do what he or she is good at.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u3	I am very pleased that this option is being examined, because research by the APB shows that half of the pharmacists are asking for it. Something must therefore be possible, especially when outsourcing is not imposed, but is an option for pharmacists to sign up for. I'm sure I'll follow up on the file further.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u4	Madam President, Minister, many advances have been made in the area of mental health care in order to give the patient a central place and the care it requires. The funding made available by the various authorities is therefore crucial for the implementation of the reforms. However, there is still work to be done. You have recently stressed that the debate on mental health care will continue in parliament. I would therefore like to refer to the KCE report, which highlights the length of waiting times for the first contact with a mental health centre. You have to wait a month or more to get a first appointment. Moreover, we know how time frames for an interview with a specialist can be a barrier to timely access to care. However, in recent years there has been an increase in social pressure – accompanied by the constant need for competitiveness and productivity – as well as an increase in loneliness in the face of difficulties or the lack of social recognition. The number of mentally vulnerable people and psychiatric decompensation are therefore only growing. Minister, how do you look at this issue? What are the latest developments in this regard? Are there specific indicators for waiting time? What are the causes of abnormally long wait times for a first appointment in mental health structures? The objective of the KCE report is, of course, to provide a basis for policy makers and those responsible for our health system to set their priorities as carefully as possible. Is the flow of mental health care still a government concern? What initiatives are being taken in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u5	Mr Blanchart, as you know, the direct management of your request is not within my competence. I cannot comment on the length of waiting periods prior to the patient's first contact with mental health centres, as the management of these centres falls within the competence of the Communities and the Regions. Nevertheless, I can tell you that in collaboration with the Communities and the Regions, as well as the sector, great steps have been taken towards a better provision of tailor-made care in the mental health care sector. Through the realization of care channels and networks, the authorities want to arrive at a varied offer of care that meets the needs of the patient and, of course, allows a faster response. The Interministerial Conference on Public Health was the forum for consultation between the federal authority and the states. This forum led to further reform of mental health care for adults and internees, and to the early stages of reform of mental health care for children and adolescents. Thus, we are committed to ensuring the effectiveness and follow-up of patients, improved continuity of care and improved quality of care. We started this work as soon as I took office. We have made progress, but there is still a lot of work to be done in the light of growing demands.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u6	Madam Minister, thank you. This is particularly important because, when mental health problems are met with social problems, the situation becomes difficult for the disadvantaged populations also affected by these problems. It should be noted, in connection with this, that the KCE report shows that the suicide rate in Belgium is one of the highest in Europe. There is always a high consumption of antidepressants. It is necessary to move forward on this issue in order to save a number of people in social and psychological distress.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u7	Mrs. Muylle is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u8	Madam Secretary, too often patients end up under a scanner. One can even speak of overconsumption. According to your policy paper, a new cell in your administration would think about overconsumption, but I have not yet seen many concrete proposals. The KCE has now proposed as an alternative to conducting a blood test in light concussions, in very specific circumstances, in order to avoid requiring the patient under a scanner. This is a step-by-step approach, with the clear delineation that patients with multiple trauma complications can, of course, be placed underneath the scanner. Madam Secretary, will you follow the recommendations of the KCE? What recommendations do you take and which do you not? Will the blood test be eligible for reimbursement if the conditions, which are strictly listed, are complied with?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u9	Madam President, Minister, patients with mild head trauma are at a low but significant risk of brain damage that must be quickly identified and treated. CT-scan is currently considered the reference examination for this diagnosis, due to its high accuracy in detecting lesions following head injury. However, this technique has two drawbacks: its high price and the exposure of patients to irradiation. In addition, the waiting time to get an appointment for a scanner is usually very long. In addition, the use of biomarkers, such as the S-100B protein assay, could appear to exclude brain damage without the use of CT-scan, thereby reducing unnecessary radiation exposure and associated costs. However, this test does not appear to have to be generalized to all patients, and its use should be measured and performed after an appropriate clinical evaluation. Minister, have any studies been conducted on the effectiveness of this test? What are the appropriate uses of this test recommended by the experts? What would be the best way to introduce this test and its application? Given the potential benefits of this test, could a refund be considered?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u10	The large number of CT scans carried out in Belgium per year, including a large number of CT scans of the skull, is a well-known fact. In 2014 and 2015, more than 2 million CT investigations were charged in Belgium. In 2014, it was about 2 159 000 scans, of which about half a million were skull tests. In the first half of 2014, a quarter of a million CT examinations of the skull were performed. In the first half of 2015, the figure was 270 000, which again represents an increase. On the basis of the RIZIV nomenclature data, it is not possible to assess the number of studies carried out due to trauma, nor whether or not a brain injury was detected. This requires targeted research, where data on the indication of the examination and diagnosis should be available on the basis of the medical record. Several measures are taken with regard to a reduction in the number of CT studies in Belgium in general. The Medical Imaging Plan includes the implementation of the Medical Imaging Protocol Agreement, which includes several actions. Let me sum them up for you. Firstly, a national register of heavy medical equipment, including all CT and NMR devices, is introduced. The relevant KB was published on 3 February 2016. In the case of invoicing, the device on which the examination was carried out shall be required to be indicated. Secondly, the programming of NMR devices is extended by the publication of a KB in summer 2014. Following this, an enforcement policy has also been developed and numbers and expenditures for CT and NMR studies will be closely monitored. In addition, guidelines for the proper use of medical imaging have been published and a awareness campaign for the general public has been repeated for several years now. Prescribers are also made aware of their prescription behaviour with regard to medical imaging through individual feedback and through the publication of informative brochures on specific subjects for prescribers. With respect to CT scans of the skull, it is also included in the nomenclature that the examination can only be charged for trauma in case of certain symptoms or signals, including general or focal neurological symptoms, such as suspected skull fracture or blood loss from the ear. If we look at the more detailed figures, we see that in children under five years of age, 5 657 CT scans of skull and face were performed in 2010, 5 400 in 2011, 5 300 in 2012, 4 600 in 2013 and 4 029 in 2014. It is therefore a very gradual decrease since 2010. We have also focused on this because we know that young children are more sensitive to radiation. So that's an important group. For children and young people in the wider age group from 0 to 20 years we are also seeing a declining trend since 2010, which is not among the other age groups. For Mr Blanchart's questions, in vraag van mevrouw Dedry's ook, in verband met de aanbevelingen van het KCE and the new information on the test of the S-100B protein in the blood, this new information will be studied by the Medical Technical Council in the context of a question we have asked about the reimbursement arrangements for this test. Discussions on the test have been going on for a year in the Technical Medical Council. He must decide whether it is advisable to repay the test, taking into account its added value and, where appropriate, its importance in terms of public health and budgetary impact, if this would reduce the number of studies carried out. The test should replace such an examination and not be on top of it. That's important. We have asked the Council to give its opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed answer. You say the council is discussing it. Will he be paying for it soon, because the matter has been pending for a long time?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u12	Madam President, the Minister's response is very comprehensive and the figures she is referring to demonstrate the importance of the budget issue on this issue. We are waiting for the results.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u13	Madam President, Minister, the Superior Council of Health (SHC) is today making progress in the use of red rice yeast-based dietary supplements to control cholesterol levels, which are currently very popular because of the claims made about their effectiveness and their inexpensive price. However, this component has adverse health effects such as muscle disorders with risk of renal failure and liver, dermatological and digestive disorders. You have requested that warnings be drafted by experts to avoid the consumption of these products. However, they continue to be widely promoted to the general public and the medical profession. As for CSS, it simply recommends the prohibition of the marketing of red rice yeast-based preparations as food supplements. The problem is that, due to the lack of legal status, these supplements circulate freely on the market while they do not contain any components with a recognised nutrient effect. Minister, can you give us more information on the harmful health effects of this red rice yeast? Should such preparations based on red rice and other food products or supplements not be subject to the Commission's review of medicinal products as recommended by the CSS in order to give them a specific status and thus allow for more effective protection of patients?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u14	Madam Chair, Mr Blanchart, in August 2015, I asked the CSS for an opinion on the possible toxicity of this product. This notice was published on February 23, 2016. I have now asked DG4 of the Public Health FPS, as well as AFMPS, to provide me with recommendations on the next steps to be taken. The Joint Committee at the FAG shall deliver its opinion on individual products, but may also propose guidelines. I do not want to anticipate the evaluation that she will make of the opinion of the Supreme Health Council. However, it is possible that I will ask the Joint Committee to draw up a guideline. As already mentioned, the Joint Committee advises on individual dossiers. Files have already been processed, with the products containing fermented red rice. In the first instance, however, this was purely a question of problems with the therapeutic indications. If some products contain this kind of rice, they will be examined. I look forward to the results of the work of DG4 and AFMPS.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u15	Madam Minister, thank you. We will wait for the answers to the questions you asked. Several population groups have been identified as having the potential to develop increased manifestations of toxicity, including pregnant breast-feeding women, young people under 18 years of age and people over 70 years of age, people with kidney, muscle and liver disorders, and people who are hypersensitive or intolerant to statins.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u16	Madam President, Minister, I had already asked you about euthanizing substances in June 2015. As a reminder, the Euthanasia Act of 28 May 2002 was supplemented in 2005 by provisions on the role of the pharmacist in the use and availability of euthanasia. Since that addition, article 3bis of the Act now provides that "a pharmacist who delivers a euthanizing substance shall not commit an offence when doing so on the basis of a prescription in which the doctor explicitly mentions that he or she is acting in accordance with this Act. The pharmacist shall provide the prescribed euthanizing substance, in person, to the doctor". The result is a reference to two royal decrees. However, it would appear that part of this amending law has not been included in the legislation despite its adoption by the Senate and the House of Representatives. Indeed, the bill supplementing the Act of 28 May 2002 on euthanasia with provisions concerning the role of pharmacists and the use and availability of euthanasia substances was adopted in the Senate Committee on 18 May 2005, in the Senate Plenary on 2 June 2005, in the House Committee on 14 July 2005 and in the House Plenary on 20 October 2005. The law contained another article, article 7, paragraph 2, providing for a sixth element: "the name, first names, registration number at the INAMI and address of the pharmacist who issued the euthanasia substance, the name of the products delivered and their quantity and, if applicable, the excess which was returned to the pharmacist". This information was therefore to be found in the registration document to be completed by the doctor who performs euthanasia. This paragraph is simply not in the law published in the Belgian Monitor on 13 December 2005, nor in an erratum which was published on 25 September 2006. I find this completely surreal, unless I am misinformed, wrongly sought or made a big legal mistake. Minister, do you confirm this information? Could you clarify to me the reasons for this surreal situation, namely that a law passed in both assemblies, in committee and in the plenary of the House and the Senate, has not - on two occasions - been incorporated into the Belgian Monitor? If you confirm that, minister, could you tell me, from the moment this law was democratically passed, whether an erratum will be incorporated into the law of May 28, 2002? In addition to publishing this law properly and in full, it will also be necessary to examine the way in which it will be applied and to communicate to doctors the information on the change of this law, which, I recall, has been democratically passed and which must therefore be applied completely.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u17	Madam President, Mrs Fonck, like you, I do note that the Act of 10 November 2005 amending the Act of 28 May 2002 on euthanasia is published in the Belgian Monitor of 13 December 2005 but was amputated by one of the two amendments adopted by the House of Representatives on 20 October 2005. Although the law adopted was transmitted to the Belgian Monitor in 2005 by the Office of the Minister of Public Health with a view to the procedures for promulgation and publication in the Belgian Monitor, the third article does not appear. Ten years later, no one can explain what happened. I take note of that with you. Nevertheless, I instructed my administration to remedy the 2005 publication error by publishing in 2016, as soon as possible, a erratum in the Belgian Moniteur. This will be more correct and, above all, in line with the law that has been passed. There is also a need for some publicity and information. Today, no one can explain to me what happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u18	Minister, thank you for your answers. Either it's a mistake, or it's not a mistake! History cannot say that, but this assumption remains open, assuming that a choice has been made to pass on only part of the legislative amendment voted here. Thank you for taking the necessary steps. I confess that, following the question I asked you in June 2015, I had read the law again. This small paragraph, which makes only two lines, nevertheless has an impact on the way in which the law will be applied from now on. I would therefore like to ask you to facilitate the task of pharmacists, who will have to transmit all the information to the doctor, and that of doctors, so that they can incorporate this information into the registration document because it is up to them to complete this document. This will make it possible to correct the system and we will also be able to have new data.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u19	Madam President, Minister, a new enzyme has recently been discovered in Canada and could pave the way for new treatments for diabetes and obesity. Indeed, this enzyme, called glycerol-3-phosphatase (G3PP), which was previously unknown in mammalian cells, would neutralize the toxic effects of excess sugar in the body by regulating the use of glucose and lipids by different organs. As a result of this discovery, Canadian researchers are trying to find small molecules that would be able to activate the G3PP enzyme. In the event of success and after conclusive animal tests, this would be a completely new class of treatment for diabetes and obesity. Minister, can you give us more information about this new enzyme and the treatment options it would offer? What about the search for treatments for diabetes and obesity in Belgium? Does Belgium intend to develop initiatives to fund research on this new enzyme?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u20	Blanchart, this is an article published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences in January 2016. A Canadian research team at the University of Montreal Hospital Research Centre discovered an enzyme that would be able to suppress the toxic effects of sugar on organs. The research team has shown that glycerol-3-phosphatase can remove excess sugar from cells. This discovery could lead to the development of therapeutic means against obesity and type 2 diabetes. Researchers are continuing their work and are currently looking for G3PP activation molecules for the treatment of cardiometabolic diseases. The results described by this Canadian team are still preliminary and too early to state that this is a promising new therapeutic pathway. The molecules acting on G3PP must first be identified. Their efficacy should be demonstrated in vitro before switching to animal testing to verify the safety of the selected molecule and its efficacy in the target pathology. If the results are positive, the product may be tested in men or women in different trials to properly characterize the future drug. In order to ensure the safety of patients, it is important to clarify that the procedure leading to the registration of a medicinal product and its provision to patients is applicable. In order to obtain a marketing authorisation for a new medicinal product, a well-documented scientific dossier is required. Following the assessment of this dossier by the competent authorities, a benefit-risk balance of the positive medicinal product should be established so that a marketing authorisation is granted and the medicinal product can be marketed and reimbursed. The scientific record should include all results of preclinical animal and clinical studies (Phases 1, 2 and 3) performed in humans demonstrating the safety and efficacy of the medicinal product concerned. The total duration of these studies is estimated to be between seven and ten years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u21	Mr. Frédéric hoped it would take less time!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u22	Me too! However, once the drug is marketed, clinical studies on the safety and efficacy of the drug continue (Phase 4). This is an interesting discovery, but, as I have explained, it will be necessary to wait for the additional results before we can confirm that a drug containing G3PP can be considered as a potential new therapeutic pathway in daily medicine. So we have some hope, but we remain cautious. In addition, the necessary research and studies must continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u23	Minister, thank you for your full answers. We have some hope, but the deadlines are obviously long enough before they are put in place. It's a pity we can't share the weight, because I'm still missing a few pounds.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u24	Je vous en donnerais volontiers!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u25	We are several candidates.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u26	All the more so as the WHO announces an epidemic of diabetes-obesity at the gates of Europe by 2030.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u27	Madam President, Minister, many allergens produced by Stallergenes had to be removed from the sale last December. The reason given is the administration of inappropriate treatments due to a new computer system which would have caused labelling errors relating to the composition of these treatments. All those who have received these medicines since 13 August have therefore been ordered to stop taking them. Since 30% of Belgians suffer from allergies, such news can only cause concern. Minister, how many Belgians are affected by this mistake? Have they been contacted by Stallergenes or the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products (FCHPD)? Have they suffered or will they suffer from health problems as a result of this error? How did you and AFMPS respond to this information? Have you undertaken any specific actions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u28	Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, thank you for your question. The French authorities have warned us of this problem through the European system of notification of quality defects. We have imitated the actions carried out on the French market, removing potentially affected lots from ours. Information about those affected by the Stallergenes error is not listed by the AFMPS. In addition, INAMI does not have individualized patient data and is therefore unable to provide an overview of those who are or have been treated with Stallergenes medicines. The persons concerned were contacted by their pharmacist following a communication from the AFMPS. This is a preventive treatment of pollen and mites allergies. Therefore, there is no immediate risk of interruption. Discontinuation of treatment leads to an interruption of the desensitization process. Treatment should usually be restarted from the beginning if more than three months are interrupted for subcutaneous forms, or more than 15 days for sublingual therapy. The majority of current treatments, in any case for respiratory allergies, are administered sublingually. By this route, the resetting of the cure is much faster than with the subcutaneous route. So discontinuation of treatment will have more impact if allergens are administered sublingually. In the event of an error in dosage leading to the administration of too high a dose of allergens, local or general allergic reactions are possible. The AFMPS has so far received no cases of an allergic reaction that may be related to this quality problem. However, all pharmacists have been informed and have the means to find patients. In the case I think, when the person has symptoms, this fact will be reported.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u29	Minister, thank you for the comprehensiveness of your answer. It is not easy to find all patients and make the diagram backwards. Of course, I am counting on a dialogue with pharmacists who will at some point be able to pass the release on to patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u30	That's what they did.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u31	I understand that having stopped treatment has consequences, but benign. A new treatment will simply have to be repeated to benefit from allergen desensitization.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u32	Madam President, Minister, I had the opportunity to raise your awareness last October of the high percentage of Caesarean women, which is reflected in the new report of the Federal Centre of Expertise for Health Care and INAMI. You then told me that epistolary contacts had already been made by your strategic cell with scientific associations as well as with a doctor's union. Several initiatives had also emerged, such as the Platform for a Respected Birth in Wallonia and the Normale Geborte campaign in Flanders. Finally, you said that you were going to examine, together with the occupational groups, what actions could be taken to reduce this percentage. Minister, could you tell me if these meetings with the health professionals involved took place? If so, could you tell me what this shows and if there are any avenues for solutions that have been put forward?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u33	Mr Frédéric, I confirm that these meetings have indeed taken place in the context of the discussions which led to the conclusion of the recent medico-mutualist agreement. The conclusions of these meetings are set out in point 4.2.4 of the Agreement. This point provides that, in collaboration with the occupational group concerned, it will be studied how variations in caesarean number practices in the totality of deliveries calculated by the hospital can be brought into line with existing scientific recommendations. In the course of 2017, the National Medical-Mutualist Commission will examine how compliance with these recommendations could constitute a repayment modality in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u34	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u35	Madam Minister, it is difficult to put this question correctly, because it is a difficult issue which has already been mentioned in the past, particularly professional secrecy. The professional secrecy of healthcare professionals is legally established in our country. After all, it is an extremely important fact to be able to create a relationship of trust with the patient. It also makes people bold and bold to talk about their problems. It is therefore an instrument which cannot be underestimated. However, professional secrecy is not infinite, also for a good reason. For example, caregivers may pass on information in the event of crime or real danger, but the line is not always clear. It has been discussed very often in the past. Recently, a story was published in the press that touched many people, namely the story of Dominique Paeleman, about her daughter's suicide and the lonely struggle she's waged to get access to the medical records held by the university where her daughter studied. When she died, the daughter, barely twenty, was being treated by a student pschologist. That's all the parents know. Because the daughter was of age, they didn't get any information when the daughter was alive, and now, after her death, they're not allowed to look at her file. They are stories of this kind that constantly stir up the debate about too strict application of professional secrecy. It is not a simple debate, but the question is whether a psychiatrist or other healthcare professional who feels that a situation is so out of control that a life is in danger may involve a third party in order to avoid worse. Can relatives in case of suicide obtain information that can help them in the processing process? In other words, where does the right to privacy or professional secrecy end? Can the risk of suicide be regarded as a real threat to the well-being of the patient and his environment and implicitly calls for a state of emergency, for which professional secrecy can already be legally broken today? The law on the rights of the patient opened in 2002 in the event of death. Article 9 (4) provides that, provided that a well-founded and specified request from a professional chosen by them may be made available to the deceased's file if the deceased has not expressly objected to it. There too, however, many interpretations remain possible. That proves the previous story. Too much scrambling about professional secrecy can undermine the whole idea. On the other hand, in some cases and under certain conditions, the sharing of information may be positive. In practice, therefore, there is often a lack of clarity. There is also a very great responsibility on the healthcare provider in question. Madam Secretary, my questions to you are the following. Is it not in the interests of all concerned that the patient, the immediate family, the health care provider should be somewhat more clear about this by means of directives? How do you look at too strict application of professional secrecy? In your view, when can this professional secrecy be waived? Is a shared professional secrecy an option?I know that in this area the Justice Department is partly competent, in which another general practitioner or other contact person can be informed in a precarious situation? How do you view the article on professional secrecy following the death of the patient concerned, which is included in the law on patients' rights? In 2006 there was also an opinion of the Order of Doctors on professional secrecy and suicide. Reference was made to Article 61 of the Code of Practice. Significant changes were made to that Article in 2013. It may be appropriate to issue a new opinion on reporting rights or even reporting obligations. In the event of a risk to the patient in consultation with the professional field, can a clearer general directive be drawn up for all health care providers affected by such a problem? Excuse me for my long question, but it is a complicated matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u36	Mrs van Peel, it is certainly a complicated problem. I remember that this point in 2002 led to a lot of enthusiasm and discussion when discussing the law on patients' rights. Of course, it's partly legal. Article 458 of the Criminal Code shall punish any breach of professional secrecy. In addition, the Code of Medical Conduct of the Order of Doctors in the medical field also establishes the rule of professional secrecy. However, professional secrecy is not absolute. Where the doctor considers that it is his duty to provide assistance to a person in great danger, Article 422a of the Criminal Code may exceptionally derogate from his professional secrecy. This is therefore left to the physician's discretion alone. However, if this happens lightly, the doctor can also be prosecuted under Article 458, which punishes any breach of professional secrecy. Each situation is different and should be assessed on a case-by-case basis by the physician. There's a part of the shoe that pinches. If a doctor refuses to violate professional secrecy, he can always rely on the case law. The conditions laid down in the Law of 22 August 2002 on the rights of the patient concerning indirect access to the file of a deceased patient are based on the protection of the patient's privacy and compliance with professional secrecy, which do not end with the death of the patient. Once again, every situation is different and may seem complex to the doctor who is bound by professional secrecy. This is also apparent from Article 61 of the Code of Practice of the Order of Doctors. We're gonna do an evaluation of the Patient Rights Act. That's what the coalition agreement says. I think there will be a bit of the same discussion in this area. For the legislator, the decision to abolish professional secrecy is appropriate in a very well defined situation, in which there would be a danger to patients or to people in the vicinity of the patient, but it should always be the doctor who weighs up whether or not to abolish professional secrecy. That's true in a court of law. Sometimes doctors are asked to testify, but they can rely on their professional secrecy at any time. I understand the emotion of a mother who wants to know what's wrong with her daughter. This question is about an individual unfortunate matter. We can repeat the legal and medical debate, but I fear that the individual assessment of the doctor will always play a role, no matter how unfortunate that may be for the deceased's family or partner if professional secrecy goes to the grave.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u37	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I wasn't expecting a ready answer, because I also understand that there isn't. In view of the current legislation and the lack of an agreement framework, whether it comes from the Order of Doctors or from here, I understand that most carers will hide behind it faster than they will think about breaking professional secrecy in some cases. In fact, the existing legislation means that there is still a danger today that it will be called upon to do so legally if it is broken. The general rule is that professional secrecy is only broken very exceptionally. I wonder whether it is not appropriate to open that debate again, even if it is through a new advice from the Order of Doctors, which may have to play a role in this. My oral question is indeed based on an individual case, but the discussion goes wider, it comes back very often and it also lives very much in the patient rights platform, as you said. This was quite rightly taken up in 2002. Especially after death one may wonder whether the balance is still correct and correct to protect someone who has died, thereby denying information to people who try to give it a place. I understand that you do not have a ready answer now, but I think it is appropriate to reopen the debate on this issue so that we can look at whether a general framework can be created or whether directives can be given to the sector, which makes it necessary to rethink it, rather than hide behind the current legislation, perhaps too quickly, and the lack of a framework for agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u38	There can always be an opinion from the Order of Doctors, but the law remains the law. The article in question in the Criminal Code states that professional secrecy must not be violated at any time, except in exceptional situations where there is a danger to the patient or his environment. Unfortunately, that article can no longer be invoked after the patient has died. I understand your reasoning from a human point of view, but it is not about giving directives but about respecting the article in the Criminal Code. I understand that patients say that it is easy to rely on professional secrecy, but professional secrecy has just been created to protect patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u39	The suspicion that someone will commit suicide is a state of emergency.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u40	However, post factum is no longer a state of emergency, since the patient has died.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u41	No, but at that point...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u42	In case you're referring to, the patient has unfortunately already died. If there is a danger of suicide, Article 458 can indeed be invoked.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u43	That does not happen in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u44	Yes, you do. If children are in danger, it also happens, for example in the case of abuse.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u45	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u46	That's right. It'll happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u47	Madam President, Madam Minister, I would like to ask you about the proposed relocation of the medical guard post in Hesbaye, from Wanze commune to Braives commune. In order to optimize and expand the management of the guards in the municipalities of Braives, Burdinne, Hannut, Heron, Lincent, Villers-le-Bouillet, Verlaine and Wanze, this transfer is urgent and indispensable. The conference of elected representatives of Meuse-Condroz-Hesbaye, which works in supracommunity, has looked into the issue, supported this transfer and demonstrated how great the expectations of the population, doctors and communes concerned are. A temporary proposal is being considered and is being implemented in the form of a partnership with the Hutois Hospital Centre. This initiative of the Conference of Elected Members, however, seems premature, when a dossier has been submitted to your administration and on which I would like to ask you the following questions. Minister, has this transfer received your approval? Have you made any comments or suggestions on the finalization of this move? If so, how soon can it be expected to be implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u48	Madam President, Mr Gustin, I should like first of all to point out that it is the Insurance Committee set up with the Health Care Service of INAMI that takes decisions on the financing of childcare posts, on the basis of the proposals made by the National Medical-Mutualist Commission. In the case you mention in your question, point 4.1.4.4. of the national medical-mutualist agreement of 22 December 2015 will apply. This point states that new projects can only be approved if they meet at least the following four criteria. First, a plan of agreement between general medical duty stations, child care and emergency services is submitted with respect to the organization of care, removal, communication and provision of services. The terms of this agreement plan will be determined by 31 March 2016 by the above-mentioned task force, taking into account the figures in the geographical context. By December 31, 2017, all medical duty stations will meet this requirement. Secondly, with regard to opening hours, it is expected that at least 61 hours (full weekend, i.e. Friday evening to Monday morning) will be scheduled. Thirdly, there is a need for sufficient territorial and demographic coverage with a minimum threshold. Fourth, the costs must be in compliance with the new standards that will be approved by March 31, 2016. The Task Force met for the first time on January 29, 2016. We have formed two working groups that meet in the meantime. It is therefore within the framework of the implementation of this point of the national medical-mutualist agreement of 22 December 2015 that the mentioned dossier will be dealt with.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u49	Minister, thank you for that answer. However, I would like to pay attention to the fact that this house is already working. In the present case, this is a transfer, which has already been well organised by the doctors of the area with already acquired support from the various municipalities concerned, including financial support. I would like to take this opportunity to draw your attention to today's malaise among general practitioners with regard to the reform of guard stations. Indeed, both I and my party are very worried about the fact of relying on a single model. It is important to take account of a whole series of specificities: the population concerned, the age of general practitioners. Men and women do not have the same problems with custody. We must therefore rely on listening to the circles of general practitioners based on their good knowledge of the field in order to determine the most suitable model for the guard, be it the medical stations on guard, the referral to emergency services (the 1733). I know that you are paying attention to these problems and, if necessary, I will come back to you in a while.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u50	They're not models, they're criteria. These include those relating to continuity of care, everything that matters to the patient, territorial coverage, because our wish is to cover the entire country. There is a need to work in consultation with general medical duty stations, child care and emergency services. Indeed, certain situations require urgency and the care that cannot be provided in a guard station, it is necessary to intervene very quickly, in case of danger and to be able to get in touch. In terms of costs, too much difference was found between the projects. On the other hand, there was no need to provide cost estimates. The pilot projects were only in their early stages and they were implemented without any question of their funding. An explanation of the use of public resources will now be required. Indeed, we are talking about more than 18 million a year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u51	Minister, I understand your point of view, but in my area there is a feeling that something that worked well was stopped. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that both the population and the doctors in my region have been able to see that this system is working well. But he is stopped to do other things elsewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u52	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u53	It was late March.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u54	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u55	Minister, many people with mental disabilities also suffer from mental illness. When they receive regular accompaniment, their lives are almost normal. However, they sometimes experience moments of decompensation. These heavy crises can lead to violent behaviour. These people then need hospitalization in a suitable structure, with sufficient staff and where such reactions are accepted. These establishments must meet K standards for two or three months. The question of double diagnosis is not new. In 2014, a resolution was passed in the Senate. In addition, the Prime Minister addressed the "double diagnosis" working group on 16 March 2015 to announce that this topic was a concern of the government, but that he was awaiting the results of the study of the Higher Health Council (SHC), which were to be known at the end of last year. You yourself have planned for this year a so-called "emergency" budget of 4,680 million for double diagnosis, two thirds being reserved for adults. Finally, the Higher Council of Health gave its opinion, from which it emerged the need to create "double diagnostic" hospital units, which would be bilingual in Brussels. It also establishes that standard K is indispensable. Already now, there are five units that have spontaneously specialized in this field: in Bierbeek and Mortsel for Flanders, Henri-Chapelle and in Manage for Wallonia. There will have to be one in Brussels. It has been estimated more or less that if we wanted to have these units – two in Flanders, two in Wallonia and one in Brussels – this would amount to around €7.8 million to give them the K standard.The actors on the ground are asking for these elements to be implemented. Minister, is it possible to meet these demands anyway? If we cannot provide for a budget in 2016 or 2017, which includes these units, should we not allow each of the regions (Brussels, Wallonia and Flanders) to have a unit able to accommodate this small number of people in this way that ensures that they are welcomed in the short term, and according to standard K? These projects could be considered as pilot projects in order to be able to assess the best organization. In this way, we would make progress in this area. Broader institutions agree, in practice, to devote a number of beds and staff members to this, but need adequate funding to meet the needs of these populations. It is known that if these needs are not met in this way, people may be hospitalized for very long periods of time while, when everything is well organized, they can live independently.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u56	Mrs Gerkens, I will answer for quite a while because this is a very important issue. As you know, in agreement with the Interministerial Conference on Public Health, the Federal State has taken the initiative to launch five mobile "adult double diagnosis" intervention cells concerning mental disabilities plus mental illness with behavioural disorders at a rate of 125,000 euros per year per project. The five cells are currently active in the five provinces (Hainaut, Luxembourg, Brussels Capital Region, Flemish Brabant and Eastern Flanders). The experiences of the federal pilot projects and the opinion of the Higher Council of Health show that the provision of mental health care is not always adapted and does not always meet the needs of adults with a dual diagnosis of intellectual disability accompanied by psychological and/or behavioural disorders. For these adults and their entourage, it is not always obvious to get assistance tailored to their needs in mental health care. The Higher Health Council makes three recommendations to meet the needs of the target group. First, to improve access to services for these people through the development of a network offering the guarantee of a comprehensive care circuit in the field. This network should cover all sectors (mental health, health, disability, education, work, youth support and justice). It must be inclusive and person-centred. Secondly, to improve the training of staff in all services and to ensure that they reflect on the practices deployed. Thirdly, provide specialized places or spaces for the most complex cases. The Council also specifies how specialized services for hospital services, rehabilitation and accommodation should be organized. However, these specialized spaces should not, where possible, replace the work done by the general structures. This third recommendation should not be dissociated from the other two. Better access to and adequacy of all services are, in fact, essential conditions to prevent these specialised areas from becoming the only possibility for these people and, therefore, very quickly becoming insufficient. Following these recommendations, I decided to continue to develop the provision of dual-diagnosed adult mental health care. By increasing the resources invested, the provision of mental health care will better meet the needs of the target group and help more users. The provision of dual-diagnosed adult mental health care will be complementary to the 107 project network to be an integral part of it, as presented in the Towards Better Mental Health Care Guide through the development of care channels and networks. The coordinators of networks 107 will therefore be co-responsible for monitoring and carrying out this integration, in constant consultation with the partners in mental health care and with the disabled sector. The areas of action of adult networks with dual diagnosis will, however, coincide with the territorial boundaries of the provinces and the Brussels-Capital Region. All these areas of action will cover Belgian territory in its entirety. Collaboration within the territorial boundaries of the provinces and the Brussels-Capital Region will be strengthened. Emphasis is placed on the realization of a crisis offer, as the time-out is called, and on the development of aid more focused on overtaking from psychiatric hospitals. This assistance also includes, in addition to the exchange of expertise in this field with, for example, mobile teams of projects 107 or the partners in the care of the disabled, the accompaniment and treatment at home or in a substitute environment of the home. In addition to providing a crisis offer and overseas assistance, the network is responsible for providing the necessary opportunities for observation and for providing short- and long-term treatment, ensuring appropriate coordination of care routes and further stepping up aid to the target group concerned. I am well aware that this budget will not solve all the problems of the target group immediately, but it is an additional reinforcement not only for mental health care, but also for a specific target group. While the networks are of the opinion that support is not sufficiently intensified, hospitals are one of the possibilities included in the reform (Article 107). This implies the possibility of intensification or better management of the large number of psychiatric beds. We offer, in addition to an additional investment, an opportunity to strengthen hospitals and networks. As part of the further development of an offer of dual diagnosis mental health care for adults, I make available every year an additional funding of EUR 3 120 000 and the financial resources of the double diagnosis pilot projects, i.e. EUR 625 000 at a cost of EUR 125 000 per mobile intervention cell. Instead of dividing the available resources by eleven (ten provinces and the Brussels-Capital Region) and allocating the budget among the different networks, it was decided to take into account several variables leading to a distribution that better reflects reality, namely the number of adults, the prevalence of intellectual disabilities, co-morbidity with mental disorders and provincial differences in socio-economic status. Based on these variables, a distribution was calculated. The latter makes it possible to allocate resources equitably, taking into account the above variables; thus, a specific statistical weighting is assigned to each area of action. The budget shall be allocated among the networks on the basis of this weighting. In the presence of the representatives of the Communities and the Regions, the new "double diagnosis" financial injection and future developments were presented on 14 January 2016 to the directorates of hospitals where the five "double diagnosis" mobile intervention cells for adults are developed, to psychiatric hospitals with a specific offer for this target group, to the coordinators of the networks covered by Article 107 and to the umbrella organisations of the sector. As a result of this meeting, my administration has developed a model for describing the strengthening of mental health care provision, including one for adults with dual diagnoses, which will be submitted for approval to the intercabinets working group, the Mental Health Care Task Force. Upon approval, the networks will have the opportunity to forward this model to the intercabinets working group. Based on the model presented, the working group will assess whether the network meets the vision, basic principle and model described in the guides and in the document. The decision shall be communicated in writing. Networks that are ready to begin implementing the enhancement of the provision of dual-diagnosed adult mental health care will be able to use the additional funding mentioned above from 1 July 2016. Networks that are not yet ready to implement this phase of the new policy are informed of specific areas for improvement. They are accompanied to prepare as quickly as possible. They will introduce a revised version of the model. The use of the above-mentioned funding will be subject to an in-depth interim evaluation. Where appropriate, some adjustments will be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u57	Thank you, Madam Minister. I can see that mental health care networks are being used, that function 4 is being used, and that finally projects 107 are being used, i.e., hospitalization if necessary. That's the way I intervene. You have a budget that you allocate weightedly according to the characteristics of the populations in the different provinces. With regard to this specific request, which concerns few people, so that they can be hospitalized under the best conditions, so that their crisis situation lasts as long as possible, I have not heard in your reply that you are going to ensure that there is at least one structure that is accessible in each of the regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u58	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u59	Because it would be silly to do so by province, since it requires special adaptations. Is it envisaged that a part of the financing as a whole could cover at least three structures which must be evaluated in their operation with the whole network and be included in the network?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u60	It depends on the local situation. Now we're not going to implement it as usual. This depends on the services and hospitals that are present. Every situation will be different. There is no doubt that we have not opted for a solution that would give each province the same means because the applications are not the same in each province. There are some where there are few patients of this type and others where there are many and there needs to be more resources. That is why we have opted for weighted funding.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u61	Thank you for your answer. I will continue my request to the government, so a motion that does not at all call into question the work you are doing. The purpose of this motion is to say that, beyond what is allocated in the provinces, it would be interesting to have a portion of that budget or an additional budget available. In addition, there are psychiatric hospitals that have now specialized in the reception of these dual-diagnostic patients. Titeca does it in Brussels. There are two in Wallonia, two in Flanders. It would therefore be good for all the Flemish provinces, all the Walloon provinces and Brussels to agree that there should be a small structure that can accommodate these patients with specialised staff, that it should be used as a pilot project, and that we should see how this structure fits into a network. It would also be a question of verifying that these are short-term hospitalizations. We could learn from this to integrate this structure into a mental health care network, and through the 2016-17 budgets. It is therefore a question of drawing attention to this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u62	You know that so far, no one has taken care of these patients, who are always dismissed from one jurisdiction to another. That is why we wanted to find the means and a system that takes account of the situation on the ground. We have therefore opted for weighting. Of course, field expertise has been taken into account. As you said, in Brussels, it is rather Titeca; in Flanders, it is Bierbeek. These hospitals were contacted to cooperate as much as possible with the project. Even if this is not 100% of their ability, someone has to take care of these dual-diagnostic patients. They are often really abused.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u63	That is why, in the motion, which I am not going to read in detail, I would point out that, in addition to the policies that you have put in place as Minister of Health, I would ask you to anticipate that in each of the regions there are these units, with K standards and compensations, and to consider them as pilot projects for 2016-17, so that we can assess the short hospitalizations, the stabilizations for these patients. And that all this fits well into the general health care networks, specialized, but also obviously other care. My motion is therefore in support of your policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-08-54-commissie-ic359x.u64	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Muriel Gerkens and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Muriel Gerkens and the response of the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, asks the Government, in addition to the arrangements put in place by the Minister of Health, - provide for a specialized unit in each of the regions of Brussels, Flanders and Wallonia to accommodate people with dual diagnosis in the decompensation phase. Units must benefit from K standards and adequate funding; - to organise these three units as pilot projects during 2016 and 2017 in order to combine the development of these units with the assessment of the value of requiring hospitalizations to be of short duration while meeting the needs of patients and a quality stabilisation; - to integrate these three units into the general and specialised health care networks in the living environment as well as in the networks of services for persons with disabilities." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Muriel Gerkens and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Muriel Gerkens and the reply of the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, asks the Government to supplement the measure taken by the Minister for Health, - to provide a specialised unit in each of the regions (Flemish, Walloon and Brussels-Capital Region) capable of accommodating double-diagnosed persons in a decompensation phase. The K standards should apply to those units and appropriate funding should be ensured; - set up these three units in 2016 and 2017 as pilot projects, so that, at the same time as developing them, it can be assessed whether a short-term hospitalisation can be designated, meet the needs of those patients and ensure a high-quality stabilisation; - integrate these three units into the general and specialised health care networks, the living environment and the services networks for disabled persons.' A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Dirk Janssens. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Dirk Janssens. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. Our work ends here. Colleagues, a whole series of questions are turned into written questions. A list of these will be provided to the Minister's office.
