ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u1	Minister, the issue of the public procurement for the construction of the future Haren prison is taking on proportions that we consider to be very worrying, going far beyond this government's bad choices in terms of prison policy. This is the management of public money, respect for the procedures for awarding public contracts and transparency of the files dealt with within the Régie des Bâtiments. I imagine you care about these matters, minister. The case is estimated to total between two and three billion euros, including the cost of acquiring the land – which is 53 million euros – the cost of building the prison estimated at 330 million euros and the costs of maintaining, operating and operating the prison for a minimum period of 25 years. For the past eight months, evidence of opacity, mismanagement and even non-compliance has only accumulated. I would like to summarize the main steps. Last July, in the same committee, I asked you about the cost of the Haren prison project, while you were in full negotiation with the Cafasso consortium, which was finally selected for the project. You then made a commitment to provide us with the contracts and costs requested. Since then, we have received nothing. In December, in response to one of my questions, the Minister of Justice, Mr Geens, acknowledged that no contract had been signed, but that the consortium concerned – the preferential bidder Cafasso – had been occupied for years and that a comprehensive agreement had been reached, including any price revisions and technical changes to be undertaken. In addition, compensation would have been set in the event that the project was not continued. However, again, no information on this agreement has been provided to us. On 21 January, the press reported that an investigation had been opened at the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office into the suspicions of corruption in the award of the public contract by the Régie des Bâtiments to the Cafasso consortium. On the same day, I asked you in plenary. You told me that the Régie would cooperate fully with justice. As a result, I approached this body to obtain the documents related to this file and, in particular, the transcripts of the juries deciding on the award of the public contract. I was told that, since the contract had not yet been formally awarded, or the DBFM contract signed, the procedure was not closed. As a result, no documents are available to the public and parliamentarians. We are therefore in a vicious circle of opacity: no contract has been signed; the public contract is still not awarded and the documents are not available. In these circumstances, you will admit that parliamentary scrutiny is simply not possible. It is in this context that I wish to question you. Do you consider it normal that parliamentarians do not have access to these documents on this very sensitive issue, which is seriously suspected, and which is even referred to as corruption and, above all, which concerns considerable sums of money? How can we exercise our democratic oversight role? You yourself, Mr.Minister - Leader of the Opposition in the previous Parliament - I imagine you will be sensitive to this argument. My next question is about the contract. Today, where are you in the discussions with Cafasso? Was the contract signed? Is it on track? When will it finally be signed? Even if the contract is still not signed, could you provide us with the figures on the total cost of the project and, above all, the exact compensation if the project is terminated or is not created? Finally, can you at this stage provide us with information on the complaint lodged at the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u2	Mr Vanden Burre, since your question is very broad, I will provide you with many elements. First of all, I want to make as much transparency as possible in this matter. On 31 January 2012, the Régie des Bâtiments and the SPF Justice organized a competition for the DBFM Haren prison market. During the negotiation process, the tenders were analysed by an independent jury and working groups, including the City of Brussels and the Brussels-Capital Region. On May 24, 2013, the Preferential Bidder was designated and, at the end of December 2013, applied for a permit for the project. During the award phase, this project, of which the administrations had knowledge since the jury, was subject to additional conditions. At present, the potential impact of the conditions on the project is under review. For example, the possibility of widening the Keelbeek road as well as the likelihood of the proposed link with the Witloof street is being explored. The Régie des Bâtiments had once decided to close the contract only as soon as it had operational authorizations. However, in order to be able to provide the necessary comfort to preferential tenderers, since they are currently in charge of the processing of the building permit application file and the preparation of the implementation file, the DBFM agreement takes over the necessary terms and conditions so that, in the event of non-implementation of the project, a remuneration is paid to the preferential tenderers for the services provided in the meantime. Geotechnical field analyses were carried out on behalf of the consortium; therefore, the results are also the property of the private consortium. In fact, it was with a view to carrying out this work that the occupants were evacuated in the light of the previous incidents they caused with the local contractors. The Régie obtained a favourable decision from the judge for interim measures, which was then challenged. Since this challenge was not suspensive, the Régie des Bâtiments could legally proceed with the evacuation. In order to put an end to this confusion about the agreements, I would like to inform you that to date, only an agreement has been reached on the content of the DBFM agreement. In the light of recent developments, the positions adopted in the original version of the contract may still change. Pursuant to Article 6(3) of the Law of 11 April 1994 on the Publicity of the Administration, the State is therefore entitled to refuse the disclosure of this contract. The cooperation agreement for the project in which the Régie des Bâtiments took part through an addendum can currently be requested from the Flemish Agency for Roads and Circulation (AWV). At present, the addendum in question is submitted to a few parties and may be disclosed after signature by all parties. AWV has obtained all the necessary authorisations regarding this opening in the public domain. The preferential bidder also obtained the building permit for the part on the property of the Belgian State. With the exception of previous discussions in the presence of the administrations of the bodies concerned, the content of the work was therefore clearly notified to the public. I come back to the press release of the Council of Ministers of 15 December 2010, which clearly states: "For the new construction to replace the sites of Saint-Gilles, Forest and Berkendael, an adequate space has been found. The work is expected to be completed by 2016." This is a 2010 press release from the Council of Ministers, which was very optimistic. Even if the communiqué were to prove to be incomplete, it could in any case not prejudice the decision approved by the Council of Ministers. The press release issued on the same day by the SPF Justice states explicitly that this establishment is planned for rue du Witloof in Haren. Mr Vanden Burre, as I have already informed you, the Régie des Bâtiments will not conclude the contract until it has the necessary permits. The delay in the licensing process as a result of various appeals and negative decisions has also resulted in the postponement of the date of signature of the contract. As has been communicated to you on several occasions by the Régie des Bâtiments, the work has not yet been formally assigned. A DBFM procedure allows negotiation with a preferential bidder and signature when all the essential conditions are known in the smallest detail. I have already informed you in the past that the date of signature was a determining factor in the financial parameters of the contract, both in the case of the signing of a DBFM contract and in the case of termination of proceedings. This means, therefore, that I am not yet in a position to provide you with any amounts. The Régie des Bâtiments has already confirmed, by means of a press release, that the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office had requested information on the procurement procedure. The Régie des Bâtiments cooperates fully and has made the entire file available to the public prosecutor. The Commission is not yet aware of the elements that would have led to this informative investigation. You asked whether a convention binds the Régie des Bâtiments to the consortium Cafasso. In response to this question and to the questions raised earlier, we can only confirm once again that the DBFM market for the construction of a new prison in Haren has not yet been formally awarded. The contract provides for a negotiation process, a multi-phase award, i.e. first the evaluation of tenders, then a round of negotiations and the introduction of suitable tenders, the designation of the preferred bidder who will be required to proceed with the preparation and submission of applications for urban planning permits and environmental permits, the final negotiation of the contract with the preferred bidder and, finally, the award of the contract and the signing of the contract. This is particularly the case in the DBFM market. It allows the award of the contract and the conclusion of the DBFM contract at the time when the conditions for the execution of the contract will be known with sufficient precision, i.e. after the introduction of the permits necessary for the realization of the project. This also allows for final negotiations with the preferential bidder, with a view to optimising its offer and refining the terms of the DBFM contract to be concluded with it. At present, the Cafasso consortium is designated as a preferential bidder. It is in this capacity that the consortium has, for several years now, taken the necessary steps to obtain permits. As to why Members do not have the opportunity to exercise their budgetary control work, as I have already said, since the contract has not been awarded to date, the legal provisions of the Law on the Advertising of Administration, and in particular Article 6, §§ 2 and 3, are applicable. We therefore regret that we are unable to provide you with the information requested.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u3	Minister, thank you for this detailed answer. In this case, the same argument is used each time. I understand that this case was concluded long before you were here. However, as you yourself say, this is a "special" approach in the sense that, as long as there is no definitive licence granted, the contract is not officially awarded and therefore no documents or amounts are available. This is really problematic in terms of transparency with regard to both public management and the management of public funds. It is in this context that we have requested an audit by the Court of Auditors on all the DBFM prison constructions that exist in Belgium. It is extremely necessary to carry out this exercise to see if this particular way of doing things is still justified. I also come back to two specific points. First, the contract. I hear all the reasons why there is no contract today. I'm surprised, though. Of course, you have repeated it to me several times. It's true that I come back every two months with this file. This is part of the work of parliamentary scrutiny. We are also keen to be serious about this. As for the contract, you told me in July 2015 that it was about to be signed. It's April 2016 and there's still nothing. It is normal for us to ask ourselves questions, even if appeals have been brought in the meantime. This remains problematic. Second, there is also the fact that no amount can be disclosed, especially if the contract is not made. Appeals are currently under way. There is therefore a chance that the project will not take place. It is still interesting, if not fundamental, for the taxpayer, for us parliamentarians, but also for the citizens, to know how much the bill will be if the project is not made. Indeed, agreements between Cafasso and the Régie des Bâtiments provide for compensation if the contract is not made. It is important to have some transparency in this regard. You often invoke transparency. I think that part of the file, at least, should be public. If the contract is not concluded, we need to know how much public money it will cost us. This is a fundamental fact, since the amounts involved are extremely important.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u4	Minister, since the end of 2013, infiltrations have appeared in the buildings of the Royal Museums of Fine Arts. At the time, this had led to the cancellation of an exhibition. Today, some works have been put to safety and are no longer accessible to the public. The Museums have installed devices to measure moisture in order to take appropriate measures (protection of works). The Régie des Bâtiments has been notified of the works necessary for the repair. However, she replied that this was not a priority. Minister, there are some who have doubts about your willingness to protect our national heritage. The inaction of the Régie seems to give them reason. How is it that the intervention of the Régie is so slow? What is the budget allocated for the repair of these leaks? Is there an estimate that has already been made? What is the date of the first request of the Royal Museums for money to repair these leaks? Can you tell us when your response to these requests was, and what was your response? Of course, it is not acceptable for inaction to endanger Belgium's rich heritage. Some see it as a hidden agenda to destroy the national heritage and to be able to recover parts of it at Flemish level. I very clearly expect you to deny all these impressions in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u5	Mr Minister, last February the press relayed the problematic state of the building that houses the Royal Museum of Fine Arts in Brussels. Indeed, it seems that the establishment has been subjected for several months to water infiltration during periods of heavy rain, marked by leaks in the ceiling and walls to the exhibition rooms. The staff then had to move works of art to the deposit areas, including the paintings of the painters Rubens and Jordaens, to protect them from the weather. You will agree that this situation has a negative impact on this federal cultural centre, on the national heritage of its home and on the thousands of Belgian and foreign visitors. In view of the points raised, I would like to ask you the following questions. What exactly is the situation of rainwater infiltration problems at the Royal Museum of Fine Arts in Brussels to date? Since when were these incidents known to your services and your firm? What measures have been adopted today, in synergy with your colleague Mrs Sleurs, to remedy these identified anomalies? Thank you for your clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u6	Minister, this inquiry was scheduled to take place on March 22. We had other things to discuss. This makes it possible to relativize, but also to put cultural issues back on the agenda, which is always good in a society. I have already had the opportunity to question your excellent colleague Mrs Sleurs on the matter. To get to the bottom of it, I had two types of interrogations to do. The first dealt with rapid and urgent steps to deal with water infiltration. It was probably global warming that caused exceptional rains. Rains are always considered exceptional when there is damage of this type that affects Rubens or Jordaens. I didn't know Jordain, but it's probably Jordaens. Yes, Jacob. Excellent! He couldn't paint you, but it's a matter of time. What can we do now? Mrs Sleurs has already given me some details. It speaks of 1,751,000 euros, especially for the Rubens, the roofing of the Delporte rooms or others. It has given me elements for other places: the Museum of Fine Arts, but also the Museum of the Fiftieth Anniversary, the Japanese Tower, the Chinese Pavilion. A set of urgent measures are in question and have already generated contacts. On the other hand, I would particularly stress the second part, on which Mrs Sleurs is less precise. She tells us that she made contact with you under the Régie des Bâtiments. That's his approach. Is a true structural masterplan envisaged? We know that urgent matters and work are never enough and that it is not with temporary construction that the architecture and maintenance of the building are built over time. It must be recognized that they are high-quality buildings, but they have the big defect of being old buildings. So, Minister, the question is whether the Régie des Bâtiments, under your direction, intends to embark on the development of a long-term master plan that naturally requires studies, public procurement. That's normal. I know the procedures. But there is, in this sense, a political will for all these places for which the Régie des Bâtiments can intervene, beyond the much-needed and obvious structural measures. Ms. Sleurs points out to me that the division of skills means that she is not, for example, responsible for the Army Museum. I know some of the collections are going to reach a place you know very well on Brasschaat's side. As you can see, I'm trying to study the file very precisely. Through this inquiry, I am trying to find out today whether a master plan is being considered and therefore, studies and in the long run, a real commitment for museums that today are recognized federal museums, including the Museum of Natural History and the MIM. I'm not quoting them all here. These are really places that are recognized, not only at home but also abroad. Beyond these questions, it is also that of re-energizing much needed because of the events. You know that these museums also suffer from a certain disaffection of the public. As I asked Mrs Sleurs, I am also asking you whether a campaign would not be necessary to re-brand. This is not the domain of the Régie des Bâtiments, but, as I asked the two ministers, I wanted to say again here, also to justify the investments you would make through the Régie des Bâtiments. It's not for nothing. We must ensure that we keep the works, but also that they are seen. It is well known that a work that is not seen is useless for most of our fellow citizens and for the citizens of the world who want to see them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u7	Mr President, before I answer the specific questions, I shall first make a comment. The press can say what it wants – fortunately we live in a free country – but I ask why I would not have the will to protect our national cultural heritage. What would be my motivation? I don't think we can find any evidence of that. I want to deny, with all my strength, that this is the case here. That's the truth, and I hope my answer will convince you. Mrs. Lalieux, you asked me why the intervention of the Régie is so slow. At the Royal Museums of Fine Arts (MRBA), repairs have already been carried out several times to stop water infiltration. This concerns both small maintenance work and the development of larger renovation files. The budget allocated to stop leaks and replace cracked glasses and joints is EUR 5,000. The problems most frequently arise from the roof of the patio. The roof of the patio is renovated to 300 000 euros. With regard to the date, at different times, when leaks were reported, contractors were identified as soon as possible to close them. This also concerns repairs pending the complete renovation of the roof. Further leaks were reported on 19 and 21 January. Immediately, contractors were sought for repairs. In June 2014, the zinc roof of the Balat building was repaired. The reported problems are resolved as quickly as possible pending a general renovation. For this planned general renovation, a study team will be appointed shortly. The latter will initially carry out a masterplan for the museum. An amount of 250,000 euros is reserved in the 2016 budget of the Régie des Bâtiments for the studies of the masterplan of MRBAs. Mr Cheron, with regard to your inquiry, local repairs have been carried out several times to stop water infiltration. Recently, tendering procedures have been set up to repair roofs, but no bidders have shown interest. It was only after multiple calls and attempts that the situation became unblocked. Work will begin in April 2016. You're asking me if I made contact with Mrs. Sleurs. It is obvious that intensive collaboration exists between the two management cells in order to arrive at a structural solution. A structural solution is only possible if considerable financial resources are made available which require a decision by the Council of Ministers. We will soon introduce a plan of 110 million over five years to the Council of Ministers. The money comes from Beliris, because we finalized the negotiations with the Brussels Region, and the Régie des Bâtiments. I have two favourable opinions from the Finance Inspectorate and the matter still has to go through the budget administration. I will then be able to introduce this matter to the Council of Ministers. It concerns the Royal Museums of Art and History, Autoworld and the Army Museum. It is planned to repair the roofs and start two studies as part of the masterplan for the Museum of Fine Arts and the Dynasty Building. As I said, the proposal aims at an investment of EUR 110 million from Beliris and the Régie des Bâtiments. This amount will be charged over five years, starting in 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u8	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. You ask us to show you that you want to destroy the cultural heritage. I did not mention the destruction of the latter, but the dispatching between the federated entities. I have been a member of the Committee on the Economy for ten years. I can tell you that before the N-VA was part of the government, there was not a single meeting of the N-VA commission on science policy or museums without your party notifying that cultural and scientific skills were no longer under federal jurisdiction and that, in doing so, it was time to dismantle. So admit that this is about a speech that the N-VA has been holding for more than ten years in the Committee on the Economy. As far as your masterplan is concerned, there's an emergency. The Régie des Bâtiments is understaffed. That's what his senior official said. You say that 250,000 euros are earmarked for studies. The question is whether there is already a specification and whether the assignments have already been carried out. The problem lies in the time taken by the Régie to draw up the specifications. We could see what happened with the Conservatory. The latter was the subject of an agreement under the previous legislature, but the Régie never carried out the specifications relating to it. And, today, she says that it falls within the competence of Beliris. That is where the problem lies. By raising the budget for our public services by 20%, the public services are understaffed and are no longer able to use the budgets you make available to them. To return to the 250 000 euros that are being discussed, if this is not yet the case, I hope that the specifications will be completed quickly. I take note of the EUR 110 million made available with Beliris by noting that it is once again the latter which comes to the aid of the Régie des Bâtiments, which I thank her for it benefits the culture. Your goodwill will have to be transformed into a real action of the Régie des Bâtiments. If the latter fails to carry out its specifications and award contracts, we will be obliged to return, in three months' time, to ask you again about the same subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u9	Minister, thank you for your answer. Indeed, since the questions were asked, there has been an evolution. I have more specific questions. If I have the opportunity to put them down today, I'll come back to you in a few moments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u10	Minister, it is not in my nature to try intent. There are words, there are deeds; I am primarily interested in deeds. I take note of what you have answered. I have also taken note of the answers given by Mrs Sleurs concerning elements of an urgent nature. I also know the problems of classified monuments. I am not even talking about the role of the Monuments and Sites Commission and the difficulty of undertaking renovations of this type and finding companies capable of carrying out this kind of category 1 work which are particularly complicated and for which we lack companies capable of meeting the conditions defined by respecting the heritage. Even if it's exciting, I'm not going to go into the technical details. I will simply welcome the good news with regard to urgent measures. I also take note of the political decision taken, it seems, at the level of the Council of Ministers. The responsibility of the government, and in particular of the Minister of Budget, is therefore engaged. This should allow, with the 110 million, in connection with the Beliris cooperation agreement, to instrument a master plan for all museums. To prove to you that I can only support the process and stick to the facts, I will introduce what I would call a "supporting" motion in the event that some in this government want to create difficulties for you. I will not speak here without daring to look at the chairman of the committee who is very attentive to the proper use of national accounts and of which I know he is also an amateur of the arts and culture – since he comes from a party like his own, that can only be the case. The big support for Rubens attests to this. My "supporting" motion wants to ensure that structural measures are taken and that, beyond studies, the Régie des Bâtiments can devote this money in a useful way to support the proper conservation of the museums and works of art they contain.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u11	Mr President, I could give you a quote in Latin, but I'm not going to.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u12	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Messrs. Marcel Cheron and Gilles Vanden Burre and read as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Marcel Cheron and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Interior, responsible for the Régie des Bâtiments, asks the government - to take all necessary urgent measures in connection with the damage in buildings housing federal scientific and cultural institutions; - in conjunction with the Régie des Bâtiments, to develop as soon as possible a comprehensive masterplan of the structural renovations to be carried out in the buildings of the Cinquantenaire, the Royal Museums of Fine Arts, the Museum of Natural History and other buildings housing federal scientific and cultural institutions, including an evaluation of objective priorities; - on the basis of these priorities, to release an extraordinary budget intended to renovate in depth the most old buildings, yet we are proud of Belgium's architectural and cultural heritage; - to propose modern ways of energizing the management of federal museums, which allow for the diversification of sources of funding, and which guarantee the federal status of collections." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Marcel Cheron and Mr Gilles Vanden Burre and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Marcel Cheron and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Home Affairs, with responsibility for the Directorate of Buildings, calls on the Government - take all necessary urgent measures in view of the poor state of the buildings of the federal scientific and cultural institutions; - work together with the Government of the Buildings as soon as possible on a global master plan for the structural renovation of the buildings of the Cinquantenaire Museum, the Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium, the Museum of Natural Sciences, and the other buildings of the federal scientific and cultural institutions, with an evaluation of the objective priorities; - in the light of these priorities, allocate an extraordinary budget for the thorough renovation of the most crumbling buildings, pearls of the architectural and cultural heritage of Belgium; - propose modern slopes for more dynamic management of federal museums, allowing diversification of sources of funding and guaranteeing the federal status of collections." A simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Gautier Calomne, Peter Dedecker and Eric Van Rompuy. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Gautier Calomne, Mr Peter Dedecker and Mr Eric Van Rompuy. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u13	Minister, the American Theatre is, together with the Atomium, one of the last vestiges of the 1958 Brussels Universal Exhibition. Since 2011, the building has been rented by the City of Brussels, which has installed its infrastructure for its major events, including Brussels-les-Bains, the Winter Pleasures and the Summer Festival. The ASBL "Rock the city", which takes care of the socio-professional integration of young people and employs 40 people daily, is also based on this place. In 2011, the City of Brussels entered into a precarious lease agreement with the Federal State. She sent you her reindeer. However, large costs must be incurred in order to maintain these sites in good condition. Again, you do not seem to show the will to safeguard these places representative of our cultural heritage. The City of Brussels cannot invest large amounts of repair and maintenance in a building of which it is not a tenant. Mr Minister, I am now asking you officially, why has the offer to purchase from the City of Brussels so far not received any reply from you? If you do not plan to sell the building, do you intend to invest in the necessary maintenance and repair costs? This is a remarkable place. The VRT was installed there. In addition, it should continue to serve the culture, including through its auditorium. The City is ready to buy it from you, to invest in it and to develop a cultural policy – bilingual, of course. This place is left to abandonment. I can assure you that in a few weeks it will have become a real squat. This cultural site will therefore be emptied of its substance. Since we won't be able to do anything about it, we'll have to shoot him down. That is why I do not understand the federal government's attitude on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u14	Mr Jambon, your answer to the question about the American Theatre. I recall the time of "The Music Champion" and the program "100 000 or nothing" with Tony Corsari.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u15	There was also "Canzonissima." Mrs Lalieux, the sale of the real estate concerned is not envisaged to date. The Régie des Bâtiments will always take into account the possible federal occupations of the property. In view of the future occupation of the property, maintenance and maintenance work will have to be planned by the Régie des Bâtiments or a third-party investor. That is the current situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u16	Minister, I think that the good will probably be destined to become a refugee centre. Brussels is taking its part in this and we have a lot of other buildings to offer. [[This building was and should be dedicated to culture.]] I think we could set up recording studios there, meet a necessary demand from the entire cultural sector, the music sector, the living arts sector and make it a building that has nothing to do with what you want to do with it at the federal level. And, apparently, there is no clear allocation of this building today, otherwise you would have told me. It is great waste and let go of the Régie in relation to the buildings that are on the territory of Brussels. I would like to reiterate that the City of Brussels is always ready to buy this building, to invest large sums of money in it so that it can become a cultural place again. I would remind you that with the Atomium, it is the only building left of Expo 58. This is a Belgian heritage and I am very disappointed with your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u17	Mr. President, Minister, following the discovery in 2013 of a number of technical damage, the Régie des Bâtiments had urgently ordered the closure of the buildings of the Far East Museums, which, as you know, are home to the Chinese Pavilion, the Japanese Tower and the Japanese Museum of Art. Works have been initiated to allow the reopening of the premises and in the meantime, a large part of the works of art have been relocated to the reserves of the Musée du Cinquantenaire. In a press article dated February 10, an official of the Royal Museums of Art and History said, I quote: "We have emptied everything and returned the keys to the Régie des Bâtiments; the site is therefore abandoned, it has already been vandalized". In view of this situation, I would like to ask you the following questions: what is the state of play in the general renovation of the buildings that house the Museums of the Far East? What is the agenda for the reopening of this cultural hub today? Can you confirm the information about the vandalism mentioned? If so, what was the nature of the acts committed and what was the overall assessment of the damage? Do you have figures on the cost of any repairs? Have any faults been identified in the safety features installed in the buildings? If so, have there been any solutions? Can you communicate to us the overall plan for the distribution of works of art during the renovation work? In concrete terms, which storage facilities have been used so far? What are the additional budgetary costs associated with this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u18	Mr Calomne, the buildings concerned, which, I believe, also date from Expo 58, namely the Japanese Tower and the Chinese Pavilion, are, given their architecture, atypical buildings requiring specific studies and restoration work. Currently, the Régie des Bâtiments is studying the various possible partnerships in order to bring these restorations to a successful conclusion. Based on the results of these studies, meticulous restoration may be carried out in successive phases during the years 2017 to 2019. The site is monitored by Securitas, which provides a security perimeter around the Japanese Tower and Chinese Pavilion. Through this supervision, the possibility of acts of vandalism is reduced to its minimum. Securitas gives a daily report to the Régie des Bâtiments. However, since the buildings are in a public park, it is very difficult to exclude any act of vandalism. This is mainly about broken windows, forced doors, etc. The Régie des Bâtiments carries out the necessary repairs each time in order to keep the buildings in a correct condition pending the planned restoration work. So we placed new locks a few months ago to prevent unwanted visitors from entering. The museum itself undertook an approach to move works of art to the reserves located in the Parc du Cinquantenaire. On the one hand, this move is necessary for the proper preservation of the collection pieces and, on the other hand, as a preparatory measure, so that the necessary work can be carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u19	Mr Minister, thank you for this information on the work. I deplore the acts of vandalism, which are likely to affect the costs of this renovation. I take note of the accompanying and secure measures aimed at avoiding, as far as possible, this type of incident. I'll come back to you when work begins.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u20	Mr. President, Minister, the Cinquantenaire Museum is subject to water leakage problems due to the age of buildings that house its cultural activities. This situation recalls the problems in other museums in Brussels. In the present case, it appears that these problems of watertightness and their negative effects could even compromise the investments envisaged by a sponsoring of the foundation of a large brewing group. Minister, do you have an assessment of the humidity problems in the Musée du Cinquantenaire? What is the status of the situation? What measures are currently being adopted to address these short-term difficulties and what are the medium- and long-term investments? What guarantees can be provided to the private sponsorship of the Musée du Cinquantenaire to ensure that the intended assistance is maintained?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u21	Mr. Calomne, in June 2013, an inventory of roofing problems was compiled. As a result, a number of repairs have been carried out: repair of the gutter, replacement of a number of rainwater pipes, repair of lead solin, etc. For the more important issues, an inventory of the work required has been drawn up in order to be able to publish a tender file. In addition, the Museum keeps us informed of the problems that arise so that we can always keep a good view of them. Repair work has already been carried out several times to stop water infiltration. At the end of 2015, tendering procedures were carried out to repair the roof, but there did not appear to be any interested bidder. It was only after multiple calls and attempts that the situation became unblocked. Work can begin this month. For a structural solution for the entire site, it is necessary to develop a masterplan for each of the different museums. A proposal will soon be submitted to the Council of Ministers once I have obtained the approval of the Minister for Budgets. There is, of course, an intensive collaboration between the two strategic cells in order to arrive at a structural solution. That is why all the parties concerned, the MRAH and the Régie des Bâtiments, are meeting in order to set up a concrete planning for the necessary works for the rooms concerned which depend on private sponsorship. It is planned that maintenance work for the Wolfers Room will continue this year. In a second phase, the rooms of the 20th and 19th centuries will be attacked. In order to ensure the development of the various phases, a schedule will be established in the coming weeks to reassure the private sponsor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u22	Mr Minister, I am pleased that work will finally begin this month, even though, as you have pointed out, it is not always obvious to find suitable contractors for this type of renovation. You have referred to the budget that you want to allocate for this purpose in the coming years. It's also a reassuring answer. Moreover, what you have reported in relation to the private sponsor is also something to be pleased with. Indeed, it would have been a shame to lose this partnership. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to thank you and will come back to you in the coming months on the development of this major project.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u23	Mr President, I can be quite brief. The answer given to previous questions already answers this question, which has been asked more broadly. It is also about the Museum of Modern Art and the Cinquantenaire Museum, where the problems have been known for some time. I would have liked to know how the problems will be dealt with. How long has it been known and what are the concrete plans? I will not go into the matter in more detail. After all, I suspect that I will receive the same answer. Mr President, I am also prepared to answer my question. 10259 to be converted into a written question. If we do not get to that point today, I would like to turn that question into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u24	Minister, we have learned with great satisfaction that the Beliris Fund should support renovation work. Whether it concerns the sites of the Rue de la Régence or the Cinquantenaire, it is obvious that this federal intervention is very positive in that it complements the efforts already made by the Régie des Bâtiments. I come to my questions. What are exactly the overall amounts provided under Beliris to support the renovation of the Royal Museums in the Brussels Region? What is the budget breakdown by museum pole? What work can the Régie des Bâtiments undertake in this regard? Do you have any information on the schedule of work, as well as on the objectives that can be pursued in terms of renovation, in consultation with your colleague in charge of Beliris? I am well aware that some of these issues have already been raised.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u25	Mr President, I will try not to repeat the answers already given too much. The problem has been outlined. The short-term solutions are also outlined in the previous answers and I now turn to the concrete plans to solve the problems. Mr Calomne, you asked me what the role of Beliris would be. I can tell you that Amendment No 12 by Beliris, approved on 17 March by the Council of Ministers, provides for a budget of 30 million for the renovation, restoration and redevelopment of scientific institutes. The budget breakdown by museum pole will be made as soon as the study has made an inventory of the interventions to be carried out. In the near future, tendering procedures will be launched for the designation of study teams, which will be primarily responsible for the development of a master plan for the museums concerned. The following works are planned in the short term. The Museums of Fine Arts are about the restoration of the Delporte Room and the renovation of the roof. There is a budget of EUR 1 446 000. This includes HVAC and electricity. The implementation of this will start from May 2016. The work will probably last eight months. The roof of the patio will be restored, which will cost EUR 300 000. The dossier will be published in May of this year. As regards the replacement of cracked glass plates and slats, we are talking about a budget of EUR 5 000. The execution is already done. In addition, there is also the renovation of the roof of the BALaT building planned for 2017-2018. For the renewal of the lead roof of the art historical museum, the estimate is 100 000 euros. Tenders were opened on 3 March. Implementation is planned during this year. The execution time is 40 working days. For the repair of the sunken roof in the covered garden, the estimate is 80 000 euros. Tenders were opened on 29 February. Its implementation is planned for May and June. The execution time is also 40 working days. I come to the repair of glass plates and glass windows as well as the control of the joints. Its implementation is scheduled to take place in March 2016. The costs of repairing the roof of the Oceania Room, scheduled for 2017, are estimated at EUR 100 000. The master plan includes the structural solution for all sites. I have explained to you that 110 million will be entered for this purpose, to be spent over the next five years. The project will be submitted to the government in the following weeks. I'm still waiting for the FPS Budget agreement, but I already have the agreement of the Treasury Inspectorate. The project can then be submitted to the government. We are starting this year with the use of the 110 million over five years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for the overview. I hope that the budgets will help to really tackle the structural problems, because that certainly deserves the patrimony.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that Mr Calomne turn his questions Nos 10166 and 10168 into written questions. Indeed, Mr. Van Hecke wished to turn his question 10259 into a written question, as did Mr Gilkinet for his question No 10265. All the questions have been dealt with and I thank the minister for his presence. Thank you, Minister, for being here. I think we have been able to do some useful work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u28	Mr President, many questions can be asked, but the basic problem remains that certain individuals or companies hardly pay taxes or no taxes. That is neither defendable nor reasonable because in our society everyone has to bear their share of the burden. We should then look at what was said earlier in this House in the follow-up committee on tax fraud. It was stated that we must ensure that double taxation treaties are no longer concluded with tax havens. During the hearings with the professors, we found that there is still a strong government tendency to present Parliament with double taxation treaties with countries where there is hardly any economic activity. It is a good parameter to see what is actually happening in these countries. Why should we grant them certain tax privileges? One of the Committee's conclusions in the past was that a task force for tax havens should be set up within the FPS Finance. It would be good to hear from the Minister what has come of it. Is that succession being honored? Is that a Minister's policy? We must not forget that the Minister came to Parliament in December with a very ambitious plan. In doing so, we have committed ourselves to following up with on board tables that each measure would have its place in the coming months. The fraud plan cannot be technically carried out at once, but it is important to keep up with those on-board tables. I have heard the Minister argue for maximum transparency. In the past, there has been a political narrowing of a legislative proposal that we had tabled in order to increase transparency. This was about access to accounts and the holding of an account in certain countries, where there was a certain discrimination between what was accessible to the tax authorities and what was not. There was talk back then about big brother, about a round of bullying. Now the spirits have evolved and it is said that we must cultivate maximum transparency, without taboos. I wonder if the Minister is now prepared to support our bill on increased tax transparency. When it comes to banking discretion, we really need to give clear wine. The Minister will now make it a priority that the Special Tax Inspectorate frees people and means to work on the files behind the Panama Papers. We've had a lot of revelations. It is unfortunate that such situations exist, but it is good that they are revealed. They are said to be an absolute priority. Of two things one: if there are ever new priorities, what old priorities will suffer? Maybe we can find a political compromise by making extra resources and people available to the BBI. After all, I am absolutely convinced that there is a very strong payback effect attached to it. Anyone who can work seriously on these files can, even for the Belgian state treasury, bring in a lot of money. Mr. Secretary, I would have liked to know the following from you. What exactly does that extra capacity come from? Will other cases be treated less favourably? How is data mining or information exchange organised? I am concerned because I hear that the whole case in Panama has been reported several years ago by certain inspectors, inspectors and officials responsible for the service. One of the important questions that should be clarified by our committee is the following. How is it that the signal given at that time has not been fully followed or that no policy on control has been drawn up in this area? Of course, there is also a link with the caiman tax. There are new tools now. The Minister's draft provides an extended scope for the tax administration and also ensures that taxes cannot be avoided and that there is no double non-taxation. These are new and unique measures, which the Minister has rightly cited and which we have not seen in the past. However, the basic problem remains. We need to find out which structures are still legally possible, so that someone is taxed at a very low rate or at a zero rate. This can still be done, in the context of certain double taxation treaties and perhaps even after the caiman tax. In this respect too, therefore, we will have to look at what is the minimum in terms of a fair contribution. A 15% limit has been established in a number of royal decrees and certain legislation. Nevertheless, on the basis of specific dossiers, it would be good to examine whether it is still possible to impose zero rates at all, without talking about tax fraud. We can do that today. Afterwards, it is up to everyone to assume their responsibilities and to draw up an updated regulation, which should rule out such situations in the future. It would also be good to hear from the Minister whether to check whether he now has sufficient resources to expose such offshore structures with these tools of the inspection fee. It is a pity that the Panama Papers claim that it is not possible, for the sake of a contractual agreement, to deliver the relevant documents to the administration or to the services of the Minister. Perhaps such a contract could be overruled if Justice and the Special Tax Inspectorate so demand. I do not see, where appropriate, why such a contract could refute that requirement. Worse, however, is that the one company in Panama is not an isolated case. It's the tip of the iceberg. Mr President, how is this to be included in the administration? What international research, what means are needed to expose this? Do we have any idea how many fencing companies we could be dealing with here? Mr President, you asked to be brief. So much for my group's questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u29	Minister, for one week, one outrage has surpassed the other in the media. I think this makes sense, because what has come up are things that are not justifiable for the people, the taxpayers. It is therefore up to us to rise above this indignation and to smash our fingernails here. That is what the first discussion is about today. For me, therefore, it is very important what is going to happen in this committee or in this Parliament in the future. Hence our proposal to set up a special committee, a committee of inquiry or whatever. Action must be taken on this. If we are outraged, then today I am outraged by the work and the order of business. At a time when everyone expresses their indignation, the first point raised in this committee is permanent regularisation, a permanent amnesty for serious fraudsters. That is a signal that we do not need today. The signal that we need today is that serious fraudsters must pay, that they must be dealt with hard. We certainly should not give the signal today that they can escape, that they can still get away cheaply with a spontaneous declaration. Today's work gives me the opposite feeling of this whole outrage of the last few days. I would really like to call on the Minister, the Government, the majority to withdraw the regularisation that is on the table today and to wait at least with the further discussions until any committee decides what is necessary in the context of tackling serious tax fraud. I think that will make it clear that we do not need this. That's not opposition talk. That's not the socialists talking. I saw a column by Geert Noels this week. He may well be considered the director of S.pa's study department, but I would like to quote him. Fraudsters now know that they can never be hidden again. There are tax flashes everywhere. However, anyone who has not regularized in our country after four one-off liberating declarations and other amnesty rounds does not deserve a new round of clemency, not a new amnesty. But also the extended friendly settlement is allowed on the shovel, because all too often this leads to class justice. Mr President, that is the perfect summary of the arguments for stopping the regularisation round with which the government comes again, while CD&V in its election programme................................................................................................................................................................................. We have to stop doing that now. So this is the first question for the Minister to stop and give society the important signal that regularisation is no longer possible. Secondly, with regard to the buy-back law, which Geert Noels also refers to, I would like to make the following point. We cannot afford to prevent serious tax fraud from being brought to justice, and we cannot reverse the decision that serious tax fraudsters, albeit for a large amount of money, can buy off serious tax offences. Major tax fraud has to come out of the buy-back law. We have said this repeatedly here. This question will be raised again and again in the course of the work of the committee. I read in the press last week or last week that someone was convicted by the judge for stealing two cans of beer. As a recidivist, he was sentenced to prison, while here in Parliament the majority believe that serious tax fraud can be paid off. Mr President, if we want to send a signal about tackling serious tax fraud, then the buy-back law needs to be amended. In the future, such crimes must no longer be able to be bought off. I would also like a clear answer from the Minister. Thirdly, I come to my comments on the intermediaries. Over the last few days, we've been able to determine that the blackbird is being played through. If the question is asked how in God's name it is possible that, when the BBI became aware that a particular bank, namely Dexia, had been heavily overstepped, nothing was actually done about it, the BBI's answer is that there was an internal discussion between Anthonissen and Philipsen about it and that it passed the facts on to the banking committee at the time. He said there wasn't much going on and that she returned the file. It will then be forwarded to the National Bank, which until today does not know exactly what is going on. Apparently, no one has done anything about it and no one thinks that they are guilty of it. I would like to make that clear to the Minister. Is the Minister also prepared to go as far as the new Banking Act, drawn up under the previous government, has registered and examined whether the license of the bank concerned can be suspended because of the facts at that time? Indeed, in the Banking Act, we have stipulated that banks or intermediaries who make it possible for tax arrangements leading to tax evasion may withdraw the licence. That's an authority of the National Bank. I would have liked to have the views of the supervisory minister. Fourthly, I have heard the Minister say that we can use the caiman tax in the Panama story. I have another idea about that. I have always been of the opinion that the Cayman tax applies from the 2016 tax year, for the revenue of 2015. I therefore believe that the Cayman tax cannot be applied to the Panama files. However, I have heard the Minister say other things. I would therefore like to have some clarity on this too. I shall then come to my final question, which will undoubtedly come back to most of the other interpleans. What initiatives does the Minister take to have the information published in the press investigated by the BBI? Doesn't the investigation that's going on within the BBI prevent all those files from being investigated further? Mr President, these are my most important questions. This is essentially about the signal that the government and the majority want to send today about the seriousness with which they want to tackle the serious tax fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u30	Mr President, it was on 4 April that the press began publishing the results of the survey carried out by a consortium of journalists called Panama Papers. This survey reveals financial documents relating to companies located in tax havens. More than 732 Belgian taxpayers would be quoted. As I said earlier, this information is unheard of violence! I say it again. Here, we measure the extent to which the Belgian State is being dispossessed. He is deprived of the revenue to which he is entitled, which is not without consequences on the measures of fiscal savings and austerity that successive governments impose on the population. Strong violence also stems from the obvious inequality faced by our people. People work in Belgium, live there, pay their taxes, and find it hard. And there are obviously, on another planet, people who can completely free themselves from all the tax rules. With regard to these statements, Minister, you said you were impressed. You said you had instructed the Special Tax Inspectorate to conduct an investigation. All right! Honestly, I'm not satisfied with that reaction. Are you really surprised by these revelations? They're not the first of their kind. Without going too far back in time, since April 2013 the scandals have followed: Offshore Leaks, LuxLeaks, SwissLeaks. Can you really, Minister of Finance, surprise yourself again at the reality of this continent of tax fraud that seems to emerge in the light of this new media revelation? A second reason for dissatisfaction with me, as I mentioned earlier, is the lack of follow-up in the Committee's recommendations on several occasions, particularly in the Committee of Inquiry to examine major tax fraud cases. Your predecessor, within the same government, announced a follow-up report for last fall. Where's that report? What about it? Is there really a willingness to follow up on all the recommendations that have piled up on this committee's bureau and on the office of successive ministers? I come to a third reason for dissatisfaction. You proudly announced the recruitment of 100 additional agents for the Special Tax Inspectorate. The majority held this figure as if it were a mantra. All right! But if I'm not mistaken, at least half of these reinforcements come from internal mobility within the Finance FPS. Is it not, therefore, in the process of de-enhancing other important services of the FPS Finances to explain this advertising effect that you brand regularly? The fourth reason for dissatisfaction. In December 2015, you presented here before the committee a plan to combat tax fraud that was fairly well received and well perceived. Since then, has this plan been or has it not been approved by the government? A doubt was expressed upon receipt of this plan and, to the best of my knowledge, this doubt is not removed. This prejudices the government's determination to address this issue. Fifth element of dissatisfaction. In 2016, the press published the figures of the Special Inspectorate of Taxes. Unless I am mistaken, ISI's enrolments increased from EUR 1.4 billion in 2014 to less than EUR 1 billion in 2015. There is therefore a decrease in the effectiveness of the ISI recruitments, which contradicts your regular announcements of reinforcements for the ISI. The last reason for dissatisfaction or even misunderstanding is the telescopage we are witnessing. We are debating Panama Papers at the same time as you announce the introduction of this bill to regularize taxes. I have the feeling that the 732 Belgian taxpayers cited in this investigation could be the first beneficiaries of your regularization operation. Can you confirm that? I would be very concerned because, if I heard you earlier, you have clearly confirmed that there is no longer any distinction in your plan to regularise between ordinary tax fraud and serious tax fraud. Unless I am mistaken, it means that once there will be a tax amnesty, there will also be a criminal amnesty. Taxpayers who have been guilty of today's denounced acts will be able to get into this breach and escape any criminal sanction. Having, at the same time, this telescoping between the gravity of the revelations and the emotion they arouse and this regularization system is a problem. Minister, how do you explain that this information is revealed by the press rather than by the FPS Finance? How do you explain the FPS Finance's difficulty in collecting this type of information other than from journalistic sources? Then, what is the status of your plan to combat tax fraud, presented last December? Has it been approved by the government? Is the majority politically in favour of it? What is the current number of agents of the Special Tax Inspectorate? How many did she recruit? How many were affected by slippage within the department's departments? Finally, Minister, how do you explain the downward performance of ISI enrolments? Do the 2015 figures not betray a particularly worrying trend?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u31	Minister, I have two questions. The first question is in line with what Mr Dispa said. The Panama Papers have appeared in the newspapers. However, the question is how they end up with the FBI for investigation. There's a whole procedure. Mr. Secretary, you said you'd request the Panama Papers from whom? The BBI will have to investigate the case, but on what basis? What is the procedure with regard to Parliament with regard to individual files dealt with by the FBI? There is, after all, a whole procedure for individual files, because the BBI must also follow the appropriate procedures. How will you ensure that Parliament can discuss the Papers so that it can draw certain conclusions? You have stated that you want clarity, that you will request the Panama Papers and that the BBI will be instructed to investigate them. We expect some clarity from you about that trajectory. I also have a number of questions about regularization. If, prior to the submission of the regularisation declaration, the declarant has been informed in writing by a Belgian judicial service, a Belgian tax administration, a social security institution or a Belgian social inspection service of ongoing specific investigations, the certificate for the Panama amounts shall cease to have value once the investigation has been initiated, in accordance with Article 6. Is it true that once an investigative act has been established, we can no longer rely on fiscal regulation? When does an investigation start? When will the files be handed over? When will an initial investigative act be possible? After all, everyone agrees that the situation will certainly not be regularised in the event of malpractice. The question is, however, that Parliament is, after all, a legislative institution and how all the procedures are going to proceed, at what stage and how Parliament will deal with them. The aim is to prevent this. Secondly, it is still unclear to me what the relationship is between the caiman tax and the offshore structures in tax havens such as Panama. The legislation we adopted in December seems to me to be a good piece of legislation. However, the question arises as to where this caiman tax goes. What's the disclosure of these offshore offshore offshore offshore accounts? How can the Belgian authorities be informed of this in order to draw the necessary tax conclusions? How can we tax the income from these offshore structures in Belgium? How do we know about this? It is said throughout the discussion that we are now discussing the Panama Papers that we did not know anything about it. In the debate on Dexia, it is said that it belongs to foreign banks. The FSMA says she doesn't have a handle on that and so on. There's a whole procedure in there. How do they deal with this in the cayman tax? Once there are criminal cases, that caiman tax is no longer eligible at all. Minister, that seems to me to be extremely unclear, and I would ask you to clarify and express your views on this issue, including for the organisation of our future work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u32	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the indignation is widespread, but it is not new either. In this committee, we have for several years regularly examined the problem of shifting taxable bases and thus reducing the taxable base in our own country. In the parliamentary committee of inquiry into the major tax fraud cases, we also discussed such arrangements. In the end, there are only three colleagues here who were also members of that committee of inquiry at the time. The committee's report also made recommendations, such as Recommendation No. 88 Mrs Van Cauter was present at the time, as was Mr Van der Maelen, who was Vice-President of that committee with me. We did a good job there. Many of these recommendations have indeed opened up and have created an opportunity to expose and assess tax fraud in our country. We have also made a number of recommendations on dossiers, such as shifting the taxable base and setting up offshore structures. In Recommendation No. 88 we made it clear that companies should be obliged to include this in the tax return. In an initial reaction in the media, the Minister said that the last declaration should mention a possible offshore construction. He also stated that 1 200 to 1 500 taxable persons had reported this. The question is, of course, what is next? Once we have this data, we must also look at how we can impose a tax on the funds transferred through an offshore structure in this country. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear. When can something not be taxed in this country? This cannot be done by transferring sums to another country and calling them expenditure in one's own country. That is the only way to have such a construction. In other words, it is possible to determine at each tax check whether such a sum was transferred to another country, thereby shifting the taxable base. We have transformed many of the measures recommended by the committee of inquiry into new legislation. The essential question to be asked today is whether the administration, with the data from the Panama Papers, SwissLeaks and LuxLeaks, still needs elements to be able to detect and tax these constructions in our country. Is there any need for new initiatives in this area today? We can deal with this in the committee quietly or, after seeing Mr Vanvelthoven's reaction, with the necessary urgency. Are there any new initiatives needed in relation to the constructions that are being exposed by journalists today, and which could lead to a shift of the taxable base today? Minister, do you think that further legislation is needed after the Cayman tax law? I do not entirely agree with Mr Van Rompuy on this, but I think it is very important that we can continue to discuss this. Is the caiman tax not conclusive enough to expose such offshore structures and to be able to tax them in our country anyway? If that were not the case, I also wonder how you would get the EUR 460 million, the amount that the caiman tax should yield. Secondly, what will you do with the fact that 1 200 to 1 500 people have reported an offshore construction? Is your administration armed? Does your administration have enough people to deal with that? Thirdly, I would like to ask you about the elements that emerge in the Panama Papers. Mr Vanvelthoven is right to say that the Cayman tax is not a retroactive tax. The caiman tax is not introduced back in time. In other words, the Cayman tax only applies from the current year of attack, not in previous years. What will you do if certain elements come up? What research will your administration, and specifically the BBI, conduct if there are other instruments available to ensure that justice is done? Will the people who have transferred money in this way or committed tax fraud be brought to justice? I would also like to ask a question about your plan against tax fraud. You're still refining that and working it out. This legislature has been advanced for a long time and I know that powers have shifted from a Secretary of State to a Minister, but that should not affect the totality of this government. How far do you stand with concrete measures that you put in front of you in the next few days, in the fight against tax fraud? This has also emerged during budgetary control, as elements for an additional recovery of fiscal resources. You say that you will try to raise these fiscal resources, and you say that the Panama Papers should already be worth EUR 65 million this year. How will you realise this in concrete terms? Which are your tools? Do you have the resources to do that? Do you need additional legislation for this? Do you need additional staff? What have you worked out as a plan in that respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u33	Mr President, I would like to go to the essentials because many things have already been said. For me, what is lacking today in the fight against this particular type of international tax fraud is the targeting of brains. You cannot fight effectively against the establishment of offshore financial structures and circuits if you do not strongly and decisively attack all those who imagine, organize and market this type of fraudulent circuitry. Who are they? They are known: some bankers, some lawyers, some trustees, some tax advisers. What I'm saying here is not new. It should be remembered that in 1997 there were hearings in the Finance Committee of the then Finance Minister, senior officials of the Special Inspectorate of Taxes, concerning a somewhat nebulous case of a fine reduction on the tax on stock exchanges, known as TOB, concerning the Kredietbank, which had mysteriously increased from 1 000 % to 40 %. On this occasion, in the QFIE case, the Director of the ISI Brussels said one very important thing: one cannot have fraud circuits developed without the support of a financial circuit, particularly organised by banks. This is what we still find in Panama Papers, as we already found in the Offshore Leaks. A number of financial institutions, figures professionals and lawyers lend their assistance, intelligence and international structures to this type of tax fraud. So, until we can discipline these professionals, we will not effectively fight this type of fraud. That is why we have tabled a bill aimed at establishing a specific penal framework to create, in a way, an offence of complicity in fraud. That is what needs to be done today; that is the urgency. We would not understand that we cannot move quickly on measures like this. In addition, on the day the Panama Papers issue is discussed, a draft law on tax regularization may be a matter of malice or cynicism on the part of the government. I advise you, in any case, not to give the impression to the citizens that it is through tax regularization that the Panama Papers problem will be solved. Indeed, this would be a form of symbolic, but also real, capitulation in the face of the magnitude of the phenomenon represented by the various patterns of fraud which are updated semi-annually. It is still time for the government to provide other types of responses than a tax regularization that we consider to be inconclusive. We would also like to know what happens to the previous dossiers revealed by this famous consortium. These include the famous Offshore Leaks and Swiss Leaks, but also Panamagate, the first part of fraudulent circuits across Panama. Where are we? The press referred to the figure of 400 million euros of basic supplements or tax. This will need to be clarified. How many taxpayers on how many tax years are there? Finally, I have the feeling that, so far, the "moisson" has not been very good. In any case, the latter is not impressive. Nevertheless, we should be informed of what has been put in place since the various revelations that have been made, which are obviously a repeated series whose outcome is not yet known. In this regard, in 2015, the Minister announced the recruitment of an additional 100 officers to the Special Tax Inspectorate. Are these agents operational today? Are they able to handle files of some complexity, if not some complexity? Is it a "new blood" or is it a movement of agents from other services? We need concrete information on this. Another point: in France, the case was put to information or investigation – I don't know – but in any case a judicial procedure has been initiated. We must not be mistaken, and perhaps it would be time for us to be clear between ourselves: a screen society is nothing but a fictitious interposition of people, with or without men of straw, by the way. And a fictitious interposition of people is a forgery. And a fake is a criminal offence. Does the Minister of Finance therefore coordinate with his colleague in the Department of Justice? Is it in the intention of the Minister of Justice to use his right to a positive injunction? It is within its prerogatives to be able to double the administrative investigations of a criminal investigation. In a case like this, it has the powers of the judicial police in terms of investigation and duties, which may lead to coercive measures. Does the government intend, like the French government for example, to use the right to a positive injunction? Another element deserves clarification. Today we find in the press that an official of the Special Inspectorate of Taxes, of the Ghent Regional Directorate, had informed in 2009 the central management of the Special Inspectorate of Taxes, but also the FSMA. According to him, things would not have moved in the direction of efficiency. What about it? I was able to read that the ISI boss (central management) was defending himself. Clarification must be provided. This could be symptomatic of a problem of general organization and efficiency in the operation of services. What about Panama and the list of tax havens? Is Panama considered, under tax legislation, or should I say tax legislation, as a non-cooperative territory, in short, a tax and banking haven? Where are we in relation to that? In particular, it is known that the French have decided to review Panama's qualification. Perhaps it would be time to clarify that as far as we are concerned. In that regard, the focus should not be solely on Panama. I would remind you that other tax havens cause us a lot of harm. It's time to clarify our relationship with the State of Delaware. It would therefore not be pointless to take a language with the United States. I have thus heard Barack Obama's speech, which wishes, within ten months, to demonstrate a political will to prevent the United States from also constituting a shelter for candidates for international tax evasion. Even though he didn't mention it, I guess he was thinking about Delaware. In concrete terms, does it have any effect on us? I am also thinking of Seychelles, with which we have concluded a preventive double taxation convention. The Panama Papers file and other related revelations show that Seychelles is home to many offshore structures. How many Belgians hide their assets there? We don't know that. However, should we not, in advance, denounce the agreement referred to above or, in any case, order an in-depth report from the specialized departments of the tax administration? My questions are about moving forward on this issue. Having said that, I repeat, my central concern is the brains of these operations and how to discipline them once and for all by trying to avoid succumbing to the myth of self-regulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u34	Mr President, Minister, as is the case every time a tax fraud case comes out, I have a lot of questions to ask you. The Chairman of the Finance Committee may testify to this. I am going to ask them, like my colleagues, but I wonder what the meaning is in terms of the organisation of work. Indeed, there is room to work for weeks or even months. It seems to me in this respect that a commission of inquiry leading to specific recommendations from which we can gauge the action of the government is essential. I would really like to thank journalists for the work they have done, because they are indispensable in today's society, and I am angry at the fact that the tax administrations of the various states, including the Belgian tax administration, are not able to uncover this type of fraud. That is one of the first questions we have to ask ourselves, minister. Is our tax administration sufficiently armed at the human, technical and legal levels to uncover such serious cases and to punish, in an exemplary manner, those who organize them and those who benefit from them. I join with the people in expressing a real sense of injustice, of the ras-le-bol with regard to these issues that are coming out one after the other, in view of these good intentions formulated by the different governments and in view of the fact that nothing is happening, nothing really changes. I hear the indignation of the members of the present majority, of members of past majorities. I even heard Mr. Reynders find this scandalous. It's moving! Frankly! But what have been in place for years, especially since the 2009 commission of inquiry into the major tax fraud? Why did you continue to suppress the fiscal year after the budget year, from the means to the tax administration? Why not act effectively in relation to the huge amount of taxes not collected each year? I have highlighted this. They amount to more than €6 billion for the last three years, according to the answers you have given me. Why should we reverse what some people say about combating tax fraud? This is what you are proposing, again, with the text on tax regularization. To propose a permanent system of tax regularization with some penalties but total criminal immunity is to allow those who imagine this type of fraud to program fraud and regularization at a lower cost of this fraud. And the state is already very happy to recover some of the resources that have been stolen from it. That's not enough, minister. The consultation of the 2009 Commission's recommendations tells us that a host of key recommendations have not been implemented. Why is there not, in each judicial district, a tax prosecutor's office with investigators and judges specializing in this highly technical matter? Why is there no F Committee, like the P Committee and the R Committee, to oversee the work of our tax administration and possibly to identify, in specific cases, what has not worked? Why is there no mechanism for penalising brokers who are complicit in fraud, lawyers, tax practitioners, but also banks, including banks that have been assisted by the Belgian State? This is the case with Dexia. Together with my colleague, Meyrem Almaci, we have been fighting for months and months to try to get a Dexia commission of inquiry and to try to make some kind of transparency and truth emerge in these cases. We regretted that we did not have every means at the time to get to the end of things. Today we discover that after a first intervention of recapitalisation by the various states, after Belgium agreed to take a guarantee for tens of billions of euros on this bank, after having appointed a president and a new CEO, we let Dexia continue to steal the Belgian state. Don't you think, like me, this is absolutely scandalous? It is absolutely necessary, Mr Minister, to make illegal what is immoral and to hunt it down with the appropriate human, technical and legal means. That is the issue of the committee of inquiry that we must set up. If we do not act, all citizens will be held accountable. As I said, I have a lot of questions on this file and I'm going to start with a few basic questions. Panama Papers is not the first revelation of journalists and the fabulous International Journalistic Consortium that released Panama Papers. Before that, there was the Offshore Leaks I called you on. Mr. Minister of Finance, let us evaluate the effectiveness of your response to a specific school case, perhaps of a lesser magnitude than this one. What have you done, for a little over a year, with the information that the tax administration has been able to obtain in the context of the Offshore Leaks? Can we study concretely what has and has not worked? What instructions have you given? What exchanges have you had with foreign tax administrations in order to benefit from information on this file? How many files have been opened? How much have they achieved? At a time when there are major budgetary problems, how much has been recovered? As far as the means allocated to the tax administration are concerned, it will be necessary to do a work which shows how, in fifteen years, its staff have changed. There was indeed an announcement of additional recruitment at the ISI level. Can we take stock of this? Are these commitments or internal transfers? How are these means used? I don't know if you've read the remarkable article in L'Echo this weekend about how our tax administration works and how the datamining mechanics prevent investigators from working effectively, when it should rather help. How are these people used? I read that some people are almost unemployed in technical terms, which is absurd when we know the extent of the phenomena. As far as the specific aspect of this is concerned, you are the Minister of Finance, who is newly in charge of the fight against tax fraud; you have presented a note on the fight against tax fraud, about which I have sent you many compliments. Which is not usual. Unfortunately, I had to note that the majority did not have such a positive appreciation of the exercise you had done and that your main opponents were in your own party or in the Vld. Do you now have a clear vision of the legal, material and human resources that you lack to do this job of combating tax fraud correctly, now that you have the knowledge of this competence that you have inherited? Are you going to ask the government, or have you already done so, to grant you these means to finally be effective on this issue? It is not enough, minister, to say that you are interlocked or scandalized with regard to what you hear. You have an obligation of means and results on this issue of the fight against tax fraud. We must put an end to those governments that are organizing the disruption of the fight against tax fraud. That's what I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u35	Mr President, Minister, I do not know whether, from the top of your cabinet, you feel the anger of the public today. This anger is due to the fact that, on the one hand, the population is subject to an ever-increasing number of attacks, particularly on the part of your government, both socially and fiscally. Indeed, when it takes money to fill a budget gap, new taxes are handed over, and the most unfair taxes are handed over, such as excise duties or VAT. We're getting a diaper back. On the other hand, one can see that among the richest, in the beautiful neighborhoods of Antwerp or Uccle, there or in fact a former of your predecessors still a member of your government, there are already many who benefit from legal tax gifts and who, in addition, will make offshore constructions. Their names are found in the Panama Papers. This anger, I think, is time to take this into account and take appropriate action. Unfortunately, when I see your anti-fraud plan in which there were still interesting elements, even if I do not have the same enthusiasm as Mr Gilkinet, what do we see? Looks like this plan's in the drawers. And when you come here with concrete things, it's with a tax amnesty. Besides, in the presentation you made earlier, you come first with the tax amnesty and then maybe one day we'll see the anti-fraud measures. That's pretty frightening, Minister. Banks are also involved in Panama Papers. It is not surprising, since I have been saying for a long time that, in every big tax fraud case, one always finds the involvement of a bank. It can be seen that Dexia, which has helped to the tune of three billion euros, is completely wet in this case, through its 1,600 offshore companies. Our fellow citizens are paying money and being forced to make budgetary efforts. Who's taking advantage of it? A minority. Some colleagues mentioned the ISI Ghent Regional Director, Karel Anthonissen, who stressed the role of banks in offshore areas and alerted the Banking Commission and its own administration. Apparently, we wouldn't have done anything with that information. Mr. Anthonissen not only targets the ISI boss and the FPS Finance boss Hans D'Hondt, but also all your predecessors, as far as Didier Reynders. You're escaping, probably because you've arrived too late. What measures have been taken? Almost none: Karel Anthonissen was administratively punished. In other words, the one who pulled the alarm bell was punished. I'm going to ask you seven questions, minister. First of all, were you informed of the information transmitted by the ISI Ghent Regional Director to his hierarchy and to the Banking Commission? If so, what have you undertaken? If not, how come you were not informed? Then, with regard to the involvement of banks in all these tax malfeasances, what measures do you intend to take? In France, a search has already taken place at the headquarters of the Société Générale. In the United Kingdom, the government, the state gave an ultimatum to the banks, who are obliged to provide the information. These are two countries that have already acted in practice against the banks following the Panama Papers. I ask you: what have you done now? What do you intend to do? Thirdly, what do you intend to do in relation to these great fortunes whose name is found in all the tax scandals? I once asked you about Belgium's first fortune, the shareholders of AB Inbev, Spoelberch. You told me... you didn't tell me, but I learned that the ISI had taken the initiative to do something. It's a family. There are the 200 or 500 richest families. A journalist created a website, derijkstebelgen.be. If you're interested, you can go and see the 500 names of the richest. From the moment we see that these people are repeatedly in big business, why shouldn't they be targeted? Isn't it a FPS Finance mission to target them? Similarly, the fourth question is that tax exiles, particularly in France, in Belgium, are also found in these Panama Papers. They are also those who meet in Uccle, near the former Minister of Finance. Shouldn't we also go through targeted actions by the FPS Finances against them? There is the question of the means of the FPS Finances. The newspaper L'Echo, which is not the organ of the PTB – indeed at one time, its name was L'Echo de la Bourse – made a whole dossier after the Panama Papers and pointed out a staggering lack of human resources in the tax system. The problem concerns not only the ISI, but all the controllers. I have also sent you a written question last year on this subject: what is the evolution of the number of controllers, namely FPS Finance officers with a control charge. I haven't had an answer yet, I guess that information is hard to gather. Don't you think there's a real problem? Do you want to question this systematic policy of reducing the number of tax auditors? Sixth, what is your concrete plan against tax evasion? Apart from the amnesty, do you have anything else to get out of the drawer? Concrete, please, things ready to be deposited. I have the impression that your strength to fight fraud is inversely proportional to that of the rich fraudsters who benefit from the support of the offshores. Question 7: What measures do you envisage for Panama? Is it not necessary, on the one hand, to put this country on the list of tax havens? On the other hand, should we not review the treaties concluded with that country; not only in fiscal terms, but also the economic treaties as the House recently approved – which I had denounced, which was premonitory. In conclusion, I believe that a committee of inquiry is necessary. It is not normal that in our country, a rich fraud candidate has no problem with the address book to find out which bank, which private banker, which Big Four's or which tax lawyer he can go to to set up his tax installation via offshores. It is not normal for a State to allow this. This committee of inquiry should answer this question: how does our state allow this and how do we ensure that in the future it does not allow it to do so anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u36	As speakers, Mr Calvo, Mr Calomne, Mr Scourneau and Mrs Wouters will follow. The Minister's reply follows. Here's what I'm suggesting. The sandwiches are in the hallway. They will be brought into the Chamber shortly. Let us eat the sandwiches in discretion, so that we do not let the statements snow under by eating bread. Mr Calvo, you have the floor. You're just ahead of the sandwiches.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u37	Mr President, many Members have already spoken of anger, which is also right. Over the last few days, we have rightly seen a great deal of anger over the boundaries of opposition and majority, and beyond the borders of employers and employees, about what is now known worldwide as the Panama Papers. They're pissed off by the case in itself. More than 700 compatriots are involved, which is a considerable number. They're also upset about Dexia's involvement. In Parliament, Mr Gilkinet and Mrs Almaci have held very large and very long debates on Dexia. We all paid for Dexia. The Belgian taxpayer has put billions of euros into the rescue of Dexia. The same bank is now stealing that Belgian taxpayer. So there is anger about the case itself, but of course also about the succession of similar cases: BelLeaks, SwissLeaks, Luxleaks, OffshoreLeaks. We are losing a lot of work not only on newspaper editors, but also a lot of creativity. After all, it is becoming increasingly difficult to be original. So the sequence also makes people angry. Mr Van Overtveldt, whatever makes people angry, is that we knew the slopes to really do something about tax evasion and tax fraud, even before the Panama case. In 2009, there was a parliamentary committee of inquiry, which made 108 recommendations. These recommendations have not been made sufficiently. The current government has hardly anything to gain from tax evasion and tax fraud. Your predecessor, Mrs Sleurs, has had more heads of office than she has submitted draft laws. You yourself put forward a plan for tax fraud, which was discussed once in committee. Afterwards that ended up in the slide: it was felled by the majority and you apparently had neither the strength nor the conviction to push it through. So there is anger for many reasons. At this stage, I limit myself to five questions. Firstly, what information do you already have and can you share with us, both on the 732 compatriots and on Dexia? We read that some of your services should have already had information and shared about Dexia's involvement. What does that say about the functioning of our supervisor on our banks? Do they sleep there or do they not want to see it? Secondly, you ordered the BBI to make that a priority. What specific mission have you given? What did you discuss with your colleague from the Justice Department about possible legal proceedings? Is that an option? Is that in the pipeline? Third, there's a feeling of anger again. You spent a few days at the Duchess Valley just after leaking the Panama Papers. It would then be expected that a firm package would be proposed at the press conference to deal with this immediately. Apparently, there's no Wi-Fi in Duchess Dale and it didn't get through. How does Mr Van Overtveldt come out? He comes out with 65 million euros on an effort of 2 billion euros and that after the Panama Papers. Do you know how much is being asked of the long-term sick in budgetary control, Mr Van Rompuy? That is double, namely EUR 122 million. It is better to be a fraudster in this country, with the majority, with the Minister of Finance, than a long-term ill person: an additional effort of EUR 65 million on tax fraud, post-Panama Papers, and EUR 122 million on long-term ill. The savings in social security are already concrete: the tombola of leave days in the workplace has already been decided. A task force will be set up for tax fraud and tax evasion. This has not yet been decided; these additional measures are not yet clear. That bothers me. You missed a first chance to take a step forward. Despite all the press releases, as we have seen in previous scandals, you should have taken steps forward in that bloody budgetary control for more than EUR 65 million. Then what are you planning in concrete terms? What are the additional measures? Has the task force, the umpteenth task force, made any decisions in the meantime? Fourthly, Mr Van Overtveldt, I do not understand why you did not ask the President to remove tax regularisation from the agenda today. On the same day we discuss the Panama Papers and the regularization, which cannot be explained.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u38	Mr Calvo, before the Easter holiday we agreed with the Minister that we would deal with tax regularisation on the first Tuesday after the holiday, before the questions. The reports on the Panama Papers were published last week. On your question, I have decided that today we will only hear an explanation from the Minister and not start the general discussion, and that we will discuss the Panama Papers file in committee openly, with a reply from the Minister. Then we will see how we proceed with the design. It is therefore not necessary to think that I, as President, have proposed that, in addition to the Panama Papers, tax regularisation should be added. That's too simplistic.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u39	Mr President, I did not suggest that. I didn't say that at all. Don't get me wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u40	I don't have to make your bill here, but you have to say things the way they are. The two files had nothing to do with each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u41	I have not given you any responsibility in this regard, Mr President. I addressed myself entirely to the Minister of Finance. You support the chronology. The Minister has the ambition to achieve a tax regularisation. Then the Panama Papers come, but the government insists on tax regularization and even wants to discuss them today. No cat understands that. In any case, it is not my view of fiscal justice. Minister, I have a very specific question for you. How do the Panama Papers relate to tax regularisation? How does fiscal regulation relate to the Panama Papers? As far as you are concerned, can the 732 compatriots claim the permanent tax regularisation that you are proposing to Parliament? I think there can only be one answer to that question. That's no. Anyone who appears in the documents and has persistently sought ways out of paying taxes cannot be eligible for permanent tax regularisation. Soon we will be able to look at how we deal with the draft in the framework of a committee of inquiry, but you must make it clear today, Minister, that the persons concerned are not eligible for it. If not, you actually offer the 732 discovered persons on a golden dish the tax regularization as escape route. As far as I am concerned, that cannot be the intention. Finally, I have just felt a relatively large degree of openness among various groups to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry. That is a decision that is being taken in Parliament. However, let us call a cat a cat, Minister. Ministers are talking about that too. In the parliamentary committee of inquiry on terror, we had to discover this via Twitter using Jambon's smiley face on De Roover's tweet. I suggest, Mr Van Overtveldt, that you are simply transparent about this today. Do you, as a competent minister, have a problem with a parliamentary committee of inquiry? Are you okay with that or not? How do you see the cooperation with Parliament in the coming months? As far as I'm concerned, that committee seems to be within reach. I've just felt that, too. As Minister of Finance, as captain of taxation, you can give that a push. Do you object or not? If you do not have any objection to this, then this is the way politics works, then another obstacle has been killed. Mr Deseyn, I have just heard you say that CD&V is also open to a parliamentary committee of inquiry. I would point out that I think that is a good thing. You don't rule that out, fine. The N-VA does not rule that out either. Mr Dewael outlined the methodology. So all the building blocks are on the table to take that step. I believe that only one good decision can be taken in the course of the work: we go together around the drawing board, together around the writing table in a working group, to define a mandate for such a parliamentary committee of inquiry and to get to work, because after anger the action must now finally follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u42	Mr President, Minister, the Panama Papers file, named after a survey conducted by about 100 newspapers on assets of public officials, personalities and individuals in tax havens, has now been revealed two weeks ago. These revelations were made possible by the flight of more than 11.5 million confidential documents from a Panamanian law firm. He seems to have created and administered hundreds of thousands of offshore companies. More specifically, 214,000 companies located in some 20 tax havens. According to the press, 732 Belgian nationals were involved in this vast case. These revelations are calling. They recall the importance of strengthening the legal arsenal to better combat this type of phenomenon. For us, strengthening the fight against tax fraud is a priority. Effective controls and sanctions should be put in place. Minister, can you confirm to us the information on the number of Belgian nationals potentially involved? What are the specific elements in your possession to date? Will you take steps to obtain the identity of these 732 Belgians? If so, what instructions will be given to your services to shed light on these alleged leaks? Is there any agreement on this matter, and more broadly on the issue of tax evasion, with our European and international partners in the near future? Is a schedule of discussions on this matter already scheduled?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u43	Mr President, Minister, we are all angry, and that is quite legitimate. Some are in emotion; others, in sensation. Yet, not everything is bad. We must admit that in recent years things have improved in terms of tax evasion. Moreover, some journalists who have contributed to it recognize this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u44	Fraud has improved...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u45	No. The Financial Action Task Force has recently admitted that Belgium – one of the first countries to have been analysed by this body – is on the right track. The files reviewed by the Financial Information Processing Unit are increasing. Above all, I spoke with some journalists who participated in this investigation. They recognize that the situation in our country is changing. The "transparency" tax and other measures taken previously are in the process of being implemented. Therefore, don't throw the baby away with the bath water. As you explained, Mr. Chairman, we can see a bad combination of circumstances in the concomitance of regularization with the disclosure of this case. It's certainly a bad signal. However, regularisation is a good initiative, not only because it is pragmatic, but also because it is very interesting to the State as such. Of course, we will have the opportunity to return. I understand that everyone defends their philosophy in this area, but I stress that not everything is bad. My questions almost all go in the same direction. I counted almost fifty. That's to tell you how much the subject is passionate about opinion. It is therefore difficult to isolate one, especially since we are all on the same line. Mr Minister, I would stress that it is not appropriate to clarify and update the list of tax havens, or even to inventory the countries that play the game through bilateral treaties and automatic and on-demand information. We can't find ourselves there anymore. I must admit that before I took part in this committee, I tried to make it clear, but it is extremely complicated. Your administration could facilitate the work of parliamentarians in this regard. Basically, to think about it, we are talking about Panama today, but we could talk about so many countries, sometimes even States of the United States. That's why I wonder, naively, perhaps too naively. For in essence, if all countries were to align themselves except one, would not all these gestures be sterile and vain? If only one country did not want to play the game of transparency, of collaboration, would we not, in the end, be totally deprived? You mentioned a task force in the answers that will be given. Could we have more information on this task force? How do you envisage his action? How is she going to get set up? How will it be financed? Moreover, speaking of finance, why 65 million, who come to increase the return on the fight against this tax fraud? Couldn't you have said 70 or 100? Why 65 million? On what basis do you establish this figure? Well, we've talked a lot about Dexia in the last few days. Everyone is obviously shocked, because it is a bank that the state had reached out to, just a few years ago, and obviously did not send back the same. Some say this case was known. Maybe; the investigation will determine it. But, Minister, are you aware of any other banks that may have done the same kind of assembly and participated in tax evasion?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u46	Mr President, Minister, the Panama offshore constructions were a shock to many. There were also familiar names and there were many revelations, but I think Dexia's involvement has caused the worst shock. I hear some here asking if there are any other banks involved. I think this will be an important study to see if any more banks have set up such structures. If we look at all this, we can be very indignant about this, but we must also be honest. As Mr Van Biesen mentioned, this was indeed discussed in the Committee of Inquiry into Major Tax Fraud in 2009. They even looked at the RTBF reportage and made recommendations in the context of it. Mr Van Biesen referred to Recommendation No. 88. I do not deny that legislative initiatives have been taken and that this has perhaps been followed up. Today, however, this is not enough, but I think it is mainly due to the following. As legislators, we can make as much legislation as we like, but if it is not applied, there is a problem. The public prosecutor and the BBI must have been aware of such files. The question here is why no action has been taken in the past. We can't be blind. If recommendations were made in 2009 on this subject, it is clear that the problem is known. Seven years later, no studies appear to have taken place during that period. An important question is why. The revelations relating to the Panama Papers also crossed budgetary control. I am therefore very pleased that I have already heard during budgetary control that the government would immediately take a number of additional measures, not only in the context of the Panama Papers, but in the context of fiscal fraud in general. You announced that a task force would deal with this in the next few days. Can you tell us a number of measures that were taken at the time and which have also been tested legally? It is possible to propose measures, but it must also be legally feasible. You have already made a number of investments in the past concerning additional staff for the BBI. You did the same for ICT, for extra data mining. Especially for the future, this will be very important in the exchange of data with other countries in Europe, as well as with countries such as Switzerland and Singapore from 2018. So this is very important, but the question is, of course, whether we need more resources today, especially with the extra disclosures? Or do you think that the measures in these two areas alone are sufficient? There is a discussion on whether or not the caiman tax can be a tool. It is, of course, a tool from 1 January 2015, when it entered into force. From then on, such constructions must also be indicated. The advantage of the Cayman tax is that a strict distinction is now made between tax avoidance and tax evasion. When people report their constructions, it's about tax avoidance. We must then examine to what extent people have to pay the Cayman tax and to what extent this offshore construction is legal. If people haven't reported it, it's obvious. Then one is avoiding and committing fraud. The caiman tax may indeed be a help, but some files from the past may have been closed. After all, there are also many people who have already died and files that we know are dormant structures, because their founder has also died. I therefore do not think that all the dossiers can lead to an investigation. For a large number this is possible, and especially for the still up-to-date files the caiman tax may apply. However, as I said at the beginning of the plenary session, the Cayman tax must be evolutionary. We know that new loopholes are being found every time. Every time we get to know things, every time we discover that a gate has been opened here and there. It is therefore important that the Cayman tax is regularly evaluated to see if adjustments are needed. The question therefore arises as to whether the caiman tax, as it exists today, is sufficiently conclusive to render and to exercise control over tax havens. As I mentioned earlier, the exchange of data is important in order to be able to do data mining afterwards and to analyse such structures. Mr Bové has already pointed out that not all constructions can be discovered solely on the basis of data exchange and data mining. Why have they been discovered now? Because a lot of e-mails and other data have been leaked. It is, of course, much easier to get a view of it. Even though the exchange of data will be possible from 2017 or 2018, the exchange of data with Panama, the British Virgin Islands and so on remains a problem at the moment. What measures will you take, what steps do you intend to take? If Belgium acts alone, we will not get anywhere with that. Will you therefore take action at European level to enable the exchange of information with Panama and other tax havens? On the subject of research, I would like to ask the following question. Of course, the BBI should start that investigation as soon as possible. I don't know if I understood correctly that once an investigation is under way, there's no fiscal regulation anymore? I therefore call for these investigations to start as soon as possible. You have mentioned that you have requested the data, but that they are not yet available and that they will be published later on a website. The journalists, of course, have their own deontology and also their source secret. Freedom of the press is a very good thing, even in a democracy. Still, I think you can get off to a perfect start. There have already been some revelations in the press, so we already know a lot of names. At least I think or hope that the BBI can take some steps in advance. For those who are mentioned, it can be verified whether or not the fencing companies are fictitious. It can also be considered whether or not these companies were directed from Belgium. If they were directed from Belgium, they are covered by Belgian taxes. I therefore believe that a number of points can already be looked at, and the sooner, the better. Another option is the following. In the whole of Dexia's story we see the link between Luxembourg and Panama. Has any thought been given to sending a rogatory letter? After all, a rogatory letter might also enable us to find out information and perhaps that information would be much better. This information cannot be questioned afterwards whether it can be used in legal proceedings. Finally, I would like to talk about Dexia. Experts from Dexia's subsidiary helped to set up offshore companies, in total around 1 600. You said you'd start an investigation into the activities of that subsidiary. What is the state of play in that? It's a poignant case. We have just been asked whether there are other banks involved, because there is, of course, a need for further investigation. What do you think are the next steps in these investigations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u47	Everyone has been given the opportunity to express their views and questions. Now the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u48	Mr President, many questions are rightly raised in connection with the disclosures from the so-called Panama Papers. I am therefore pleased that the committee is giving me the opportunity today to go into a number of questions in greater depth. Given the short time frame, I will answer a number of questions rather quickly. I assume, however, that this will be the first, but certainly not the last, meeting in which the committee will look into this. Many questions have been asked and many answers have to be given. In any case, you can count on me, along with you, actively looking for the answers to those many questions. The last few weeks and months have seen tax fraud and tax evasion of everything and some of it pop up. LuxLeaks, SwissLeaks and now recently the Panama Papers. Why they are not PanamaLeaks is not entirely clear to me. However, we adhere to the official title. Journalists are supposed to be creative. We have come to a point where we must say: 'Stop, because this really cannot be done anymore'. You all know very well that I'm not a tax lover. There can be no discussion about this. I'd rather have them as low as possible. However, in order for our society to function properly, contributions will always be needed, taxes if you like. We cannot expect the average citizen and entrepreneur to pay his taxes properly and properly, if on the other hand a small top layer on a large and organized scale avoids taxes. I can't do this anymore. This must at last be dealt with seriously. As far as I am concerned, there are two pertinent questions at the moment. Firstly, how are we going to reduce this phenomenon further? How are we going to discourage this tax avoidance on the substance? How can we close the loopholes of the network further? Secondly, how did it come to this? The news may be recent, but the facts themselves are of course not at all. There are actors conceivable who have a very clear responsibility in this regard. I am thinking of the international community. I am thinking of the countries that we may and must define as tax havens. I am certainly thinking of the financial institutions as well. And I'm also thinking about politics. Once again, the facts we are talking about today are absolutely not yesterday, they extend over many years and many years. One thing is certain: to be the most effective, we will have to tackle this phenomenon internationally. This movement is under way at the OECD and the European Commission level. In this respect, I would refer you to the Erosion and Profit Shifting Base actions, the famous OECD BEPS and the tax transparency measures adopted by the OECD and the European Commission. Although these are excellent initiatives, this is not enough. It is also time to define the concept of tax haven and to determine which countries should or should not be included on the blacklist. Commissioner Moscovici last week called for a single definition and a single list. I immediately associated myself with his words. The facts show that this problem literally knows no boundaries. It is therefore by definition an international challenge. Does this mean that we can sit back at national level? That is absolutely not the case. We didn't do that either. The current government has certainly not been waiting for the Panama Papers to take initiatives that further strengthen the international momentum towards greater fiscal transparency. The caiman tax, a creative new instrument for the tax administration, was introduced in 2015 and, as you will all remember, was intertwined just before the vote. It is now more than ever apparent that such a measure exists. For the first time we will have a better view of these structures in tax havens and they can be taxed. This is exactly what new measures need to do, namely to ensure that we get more information and that we get a better view of the mechanisms. That alone will create a very important, significant, discouraging effect. Following the answer to the questions, I will present to you the package of additional measures which the government has decided on over the last few days or even hours. In the current debate, however, we must be careful not to throw everything into a pile. A domestic or foreign tax arrangement is not necessarily illegal or fraudulent. She's usually unbearable. If there is fraud, there is legislation to ensure that such fraud can also be prosecuted in an appropriate manner. Let's be honest. For decades, those constructions and other Panama Paper states have not really been looked at. Politics has not done that either. As long as no signal is given that we are not okay with such situations as society and as representatives of society, not much will change. I am absolutely convinced that we have arrived at a tilting moment. The public will not stand for it anymore and I won't stand for it anymore. I will now answer the specific questions. I was asked why it was the journalists who found this information, not the ISI. The ISI is doing an excellent job and we have strengthened its staff, and I will come back to that. Thanks to his work, a large-scale fraud was discovered with regard to the reimbursement of the furniture discount. And that's just an example. The International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ) has also worked well. But this work could have been done thanks to a leak of information, otherwise the latter would never have surfaced. This shows that the authorities need more information. We need an instrument to get information, not to organize a witch hunt, but to stop tax evasion on a large scale. Several Members also raised the question of whether I already have more information on the dossiers. I know what else you read in the papers and nothing more. I immediately asked the journalists in question and their superiors, as it is formally called, to provide me with all the files so that we could start investigations with the utmost urgency. In the meantime, the BBI has made every effort to start these investigations immediately. The answer to the question I put to those journalists was that this is not possible, especially because of an international commitment in the framework of that consortium of investigative journalists. I deeply regret that. We can't start the investigation until we have all the data. It will then be necessary to obtain first and foremost a legally binding identification of the persons concerned before further investigation can be carried out. I was also asked whether there were opportunities to obtain more information through justice and the right to a positive injunction. This question must obviously be put to the Minister of Justice. As far as I am concerned, I have formally asked the latter to examine the possibilities with a view to obtaining information on the file more quickly. I was also asked whether Panama should be included on the blacklist of tax havens. I'm convinced of that. First of all, however, we must arrive at a uniform definition of tax haven at European level. Panama did not fall within the scope of this provision because the country applies "normal" tax rates, at least for its citizens and businesses. As far as foreign funds are concerned, things are somewhat different. A question was also asked about additional capacity in the BBI. We have indeed brought a hundred additional employees to the BBI and also made important additional investments in the BBI's ICT environment. Those 100 additional employees represent an increase of over 20% in the staff framework of the BBI. So I am absolutely convinced that the BBI is sufficiently manned and equipped at the moment. The consequences of the recruitment of 100 additional employees, of which there are also FPS Finances, were met through automation and efficiency gains. Questions were also asked about the role of Belgian financial institutions. Let me be very clear about this immediately: that role must certainly be examined. Banks operating in Belgium are expressly prohibited from setting up so-called "special" mechanisms which have the object or effect of promoting tax implications for third parties. Belgian banks are therefore not allowed to provide advice or services to their clients with the aim or effect of failing to comply with their tax obligations, let alone to promote fraud. Like other supervisors in other Member States, the National Bank, the supervisory authority, is taking initiatives to verify that those provisions have been and are effectively complied with. Moreover, I am also currently looking at the legal possibilities of obtaining maximum transparency from Belgian financial institutions in their business, their links and activities with Panama and other tax havens. For me, this is one of the most important tasks to be addressed by the task force to be set up. Immediately I come from the general banking sphere to the questions about Dexia. If the coverage is correct about the way Dexia has actively and on a fairly large scale participated in such constructions, then that is absolutely unacceptable to me. Further investigations must also be awaited, because, as has been said, the administration has still not been given access to the files relating to the Panama Papers. As soon as these files are available, Dexia's activities and responsibilities must be vetted. I will certainly enter into the conversation with the other financial institutions as well. Still related to Dexia and the role of the BBI, I will of course not be able to answer that question until the BBI completes its internal investigation. Mr Philipsen has announced this research and it has already begun. I will see to it that it is done in a thorough manner. The question was also raised as to whether the files in question could qualify for regularisation. For that, we should first have the files in our hands, and I refer once again to the question that I asked the journalists in question a few days ago. From the moment an investigation is launched, if any form of investigative act has been made effective, the files will be excluded from regularisation. It is therefore important in all respects that the research can start as soon as possible. In this context, I would also like to point out that for those more than 700 files, an identification must first be made. The files go back to the 1970s. A number of four comments are insisting on this. First of all, are all those involved still alive? I believe that the answer to that question is almost certainly no. We know from two files that it isn't. Secondly, are all those involved still Belgian in nationality? That too may have changed in the meantime. Thirdly, some people who come forward in the Panama Papers may have gone through regularisation in the past. Fourthly, many files are known to the BBI and have already been investigated by it through SwissLeaks, through LuxLeaks, through the investigation of bank data in Liechtenstein and through other investigations. With this, I would just like to point out that the number of files in which there is still a wide-ranging investigation to be carried out will probably be a lot lower than that of the more than 700, the number that is constantly mentioned. As regards the applicability of the Cayman tax to past revenues, because previous governments did not have an instrument such as the Cayman tax, we could indeed not burden those structures. It can only count on today's revenue. Finally, I come to the additional measures that have been taken very recently. It concerns a total of eight measures, all of which were part of the note on the plan, if you like, which I submitted at the time in the context of the fight against tax fraud. I'll cover all eight of them. Firstly, there is faster processing of fraud files. The FPS Finance will double the number of tax officials available to the Justice Department from 15 to 30, so that such cases can also be dealt with more quickly at judicial level. In addition, the Justice Department is considering the possibility of increasing the number of tax substitutes in order to step up the fight against tax fraud from that angle. The second measure is to extend the investigation and assessment periods for obtaining foreign intelligence to twenty-four months. I would like to emphasise the time limits for investigations and attacks. If the FPS Finance obtains information from abroad, it will in future not only have an assessment period, but also an investigation period. There shall be a period of twenty-four months starting from the date of receipt of the information. Tax may still be levied if the information relates to unreported income in the five or seven years preceding the information. For example, files on tax constructions can be explored even more thoroughly and evidence can be collected. The third point concerns the exchange of information with Panama. The procedure was initiated to conclude a tax information exchange agreement with Panama. This agreement will allow for a better exchange of data on tax constructions. Point 4 concerns the approximation of legislation on recovery in order not to allow fraud money to escape. In exceptional but usually very large fraud cases, there is a procedure of recovery, i.e. seizure of the money, and a procedure on the substance of the dispute. A gap in the legislation allowed it to happen in practice that the procedure concerning the attachment had already been completed before a judgment was given on the substance. The legislation will be amended so that the money cannot disappear abroad before there is a judgment on the substance. The fifth measure concerns the simplified third-party attachment. In fraud cases, the bailiff may proceed with the alleged third-party seizure. This does not take possession of the debtor's property, but of what he or she still owes to third parties. That third-party assault is now being carried out rather cumbersomely through bailiffs. From now on it will be possible by registered mail and by electronic means. A similar scheme will be introduced to adapt the domanial law of 22 December 1949 in order to extend the rules of the simplified third party seizure to non-fiscal collections. Since 1 May 2014, the Non-Fiscal Recovery Offices within the AAII have been responsible for the recovery of all non-fiscal collections. This reform within the FPS Finance in charge of non-fiscal collection calls for an urgent amendment of the domanial law on four points, since the non-fiscal collections were integrated within the AAII and there are no grounds for excluding non-fiscal collections from the application of the existing legislation. The sixth measure concerns access to digital evidence. In fraud cases, gathering evidence is crucial in order to build up a solid file. In order to extend the scope of the inspection services, accounting data contained in the cloud, as it is called, will also be considered as evidence. The seventh measure is a fine in the event of non-declaration. The fine imposed in case of non-declaration of the tax structures covered by the Cayman tax is increased from 1 250 euros to 6 250 euros. This is only the administrative fine. There is still the tax increase that follows the return as such. Eighth point and finally, the task force. Indeed, a task force, consisting of experts from Finance and Justice, will soon be set up with the aim of monitoring the issue of tax structures and providing further policy options. For me, these measures are once again an important additional step that this government is taking. That's not the end of the story. The task force will have to do its job. I am also looking at Parliament, which must also play its role and has various possibilities to examine elements of the Panama Papers and to help create the greatest possible transparency in this dossier. In further investigating and tackling this possible tax avoidance and fraud, the committee has at least a partner to me and to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u49	I would like to thank everyone who has spoken and the Minister for the answer. We can now proceed in two ways. We give everyone the opportunity to reply. In the context of a topical debate, that is the normal procedure. Either we have an exchange of views here, or we will not be able to take a decision on the way in which we will continue to deal with the Panama Papers. There is a proposal to set up a subcommittee tabled by Mr Vanvelthoven. We also had an oral explanation on a committee of inquiry. The establishment of a committee of inquiry does not fall within the competence of that committee. It must be established at the level of the Conference of Presidents in accordance with a certain procedure, as was the case in connection with the terrorist threat. If we are to have a discussion, we must know what we are discussing. What will be the subject matter and finality of the Committee of Inquiry or the subcommittee? I do not think we can have a superficial slogan discussion. In the current state of the discussion, I ask the members of the committee how they see the further work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u50	I thank the Minister for his reply. The most important question is how we proceed now. My fellow Members have the merit of presenting the proposal for a subcommittee. That is a first proposal and it is important and relevant. I understand that my fellow Members do not want to give up on this today unless there is a specific other perspective. After Mr Van Overtveldt's explanatory statement, the authors and the whole committee would be insane to go to business as usual. At the same time, I agree with you that we should not improvise today about one or the other. The most pragmatic proposal is not just to decide nothing. Nor is it the case that a committee of inquiry is the responsibility of the Conference of Presidents. We could decide, according to the proposal we have just made, that we should set up a working group to see whether we can come up with a text for the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry in the near future. I do not even expect my fellow Members to commit themselves to the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry. A working group to try to reach a text in the short term is the minimum minimorum. A number of fellow Members, including the majority, have said that in principle such a committee of inquiry is the best way of digging it to the bone. That would be my proposal. We can meet tomorrow and even report to the Conference of Presidents: we are taking up the temperature and we are moving forward. Then the fellow Members who have tabled another proposal have a concrete perspective to wait for the adoption of a subcommittee if necessary. Of course, I should not speak in their name, but I think that the step towards a committee of inquiry, to study it in a working group to set it up, is the best possible decision in the short term. I would also like to thank the Minister for Finance, who said at the end that there are many possible resources and that he is prepared to do so. This seems to me to be the best way of working for the next twenty-four hours. We'll see if we come to an agreement or not, but at least let us make the effort.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u51	Mr President, you have managed to defuse the debate a little. It is clear that, in a topical debate, we are talking first about the content, the discussion earlier, and that Members have the opportunity to reply to the Minister. Now we are in another debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u52	I asked you to replicate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u53	That's normal, you shouldn't ask. I do not understand why you now, in the middle of the discussion, want to discuss the question of where this is going.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u54	Mr Calvo has asked me three times to know where we are going when the Minister has replied. I'm not trying to sweep anything under the table here. If you think you need to replicate the Minister, or if fellow Members think you do, then I will give the floor for a reply to the Minister. Soon we will discuss the arrangements for the work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u55	I think that's the logic itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u56	Mr Vanvelthoven, we are not having a procedural debate; you have the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u57	Mr President, Minister, I would like to express a few reservations about your reply. I hear you saying that we need to look for answers to the many questions. We have not yet received many answers, but I understand that this has to be further investigated. You're saying it has to stop, that this really can't happen anymore. How are we supposed to dig that in? You also refer to politics, which has already given certain signals in the past, but perhaps too little. Minister, I would like to take that. The signal that politics must send today is something other than the signal that the government is sending today. You list eight measures which, as you have just said in all honesty, are a repetition of what was announced here three months ago. There was a discussion on this at the time within the majority. This point was not knocked off within the majority, within the government. Today you will come back with eight of these measures, so you will not bring much news under the sun. What's mostly new under the sun is what this government brings. Then I'll come back to regularization. That is the signal you are sending on behalf of this government, the signal that serious tax fraud must be able to be regularised. The second signal given by this government concerns a competence of Minister Geens, in particular the buy-back law. The signal that serious tax fraud can be paid off and should not be brought to justice is not a problem for this government. That's a second wrong signal. The third point I would like to give you concerns something on which we have repeatedly asked questions. We know that there will be an international data exchange from 1 January 2017. Foreign banks will have to provide financial tax information from their Belgian customers to the Belgian tax authorities. That is an excellent thing. I have repeatedly asked when this government would decide that the Belgian banks have the same obligation for their Belgian customers. We all agree that an employer should transfer his employees' pay records to the tax authorities, but apparently this majority does not think that the same should apply to the financial data of taxpayers. You can also take a step there. That step has not yet been taken and you have still not promised it. Minister, at international level, you have expressed two positions of this government in the context of the tobin tax, which we will be discussing tomorrow. I recall that at a New Year's reception of the Brussels stock exchange, you announced that you would sink that tobin tax. Those were your words back then. Surely that is not the signal that we can expect from a government that wants to tackle international circumvention mechanisms? The same applies to the discussion we should have had today on the subsidiarity opinion. This is a European directive in the context of the fight against tax avoidance by multinationals. On this point, I would like to refer to an answer that you gave to Mr Smaers at the beginning of last month. You replied that the measures proposed by the European Commission go too far in the directive. These are all signs that you are saying that it must stop while in practice you are doing things that prove otherwise. That's what I blame you and this government. Now do something about it! Start by stopping regularization. Make sure that heavy tax fraud can no longer be paid off. I believe that this would send a much more important signal than what you said earlier. Colleagues point out that we need to get the files from the Panama Papers quickly. If that does not happen soon, they do not believe that they can be regularised. If you do not put the law of regularisation to the vote, this problem will not arise.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u58	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u59	The BBI must be working on that right now. People should be brought to court if it turns out to be tax fraud. That's the most important signal! Open Vld wants to give the people the signal that serious tax fraud can be paid off. Those who commit theft in the supermarket must, however, be imprisoned in prison. That's the class justice Open Vld stands for. We Socialists are not in favour of this!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u60	Mr Van der Maelen was Vice-President and one of the recommendations of the then Committee of Inquiry was the friendly solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u61	You're selling bullshit!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u62	Those recommendations were adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u63	You're full of shit!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u64	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u65	The truth has many sides in politics.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u66	Mr President, I will conclude. If we really want to tackle the serious tax fraud, we in Parliament can show that we mean it. With what's on the table today, I don't feel it at all. I therefore call for a serious investigation into what has gone wrong and what needs to be changed in the future. In this respect, it seems that the opposition is strongly opposed to the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u67	Mr President, we continue to support Mr Vanvelthoven's proposal. We need to move forward quickly. The Finance Committee must get to work, not be tied up and be able to quickly ensure that the government moves forward on concrete measures, which respond to the Panama Papers challenge, but also to all other revelations. I repeat, every day that passes makes us lose millions of euros. At the same time, we would like to see a political process that is as short as possible, leading to a committee of inquiry which will look back at what has not worked and which leads to the current situation. I hope that we will be able to reach a decision on this matter. Mr Minister of Finance, do not let yourself be confined to the issue of the specific mechanisms of this 1997 FSMA circular, which I do not know whether it has been updated or not, and which lists the specific mechanisms, which could make possible certain tax fraud techniques from Belgian banks. First of all, it is a circular that is rigid, because it proceeds by enumeration. This means that if banks are outside the listed items, they do not fall within the scope of this circular. And above all, it is a circular, where one would need a law with criminal sanctions for those who, in banks, would assist in the organization of national or international tax fraud. You have the authority, in your capacity as Minister of Finance, to summon the banks – and I'm not just talking about the Federation of Financial Institutions, Febelfin, I'm also talking about the bankers – to ask them what their practices are today and whether they can tell you, with their eyes in their eyes, whether or not they continue by subsidiary to propose structures, offshore solutions to their customers. It would be worth summoning the banks and asking them what is happening. The framework of specific mechanisms is a starting point, but it must be realized that things are more devious. We have to start from the realities of the field. I am referring here to a very specific case: an entrepreneur is financing a bank and his annual accounts are forwarded to the bank, which requests them regularly. The bank finds that this company pays tax. Some banks may delegate advisors to these entrepreneurs in order to pay less tax, with solutions that can be offshore solutions, of course. This means that an industry exists in our country, as in other countries, to propose solutions, sometimes tax optimisation, and sometimes beyond, tax evasion mechanisms. I am still hungry about the need to target the brains of these international tax schemes. I have not heard the Minister, beyond the mere fact that there is a circular known as'special mechanism', show the desire to go further with a more precise legal framework that makes things clearer to, I repeat, discipline those who do the profession of helping people organize their tax evasion. You are aligning yourself with Mr Moscovici's remarks. Good. Let us recall what Mr Moscovici said: "I want a list of tax havens that is complete and I will not subscribe to a weak list." He wants a strong list. I hope, Minister, that when you say that you agree with Mr Moscovici's approach, you agree with this desire to have a list of tax havens that is a strong list. What is a strong list? It is not just looking at the tax rates that exist in some countries or territories. It is also to look at whether or not these countries tolerate tax consulting companies, law firms, banks that offer solutions to offshore structures – in short, territories or countries that house industries that facilitate tax evasion. We must not simply stay on the surface of things and say that they have a normal rate and, then, that they are committed to being in a dynamic of automatic exchange of information. No! We must look at whether, in fact, these territories offer offshore structures or not. I believe that is what Mr Moscovici is talking about when he talks about an exhaustive list. I take note of what you asked Mr Geens, whether he intended to use his right to a positive injunction or not. I hope you will communicate his decision to us soon enough. In the meantime, we will also do our work as parliamentarians. I am going to question him, too, directly, but I think it would be good if we knew soon enough whether Mr Geens intended to use his right to a positive injunction. I find that, for the time being, it is the great absence of the Panama Papers debate, while, in other countries, the Ministers of Justice have positioned themselves alongside the Finance Ministers. With regard to Belgian banks, it would be interesting to know whether the 2013 law requiring the reporting of financial flows to offshore territories had a positive effect. In my view, there was an indication that this had a positive effect. I remember that not so long ago, a French-speaking newspaper had made its headlines pointing out that a large Belgian bank had financial flows to offshore structures. These were reported to the Special Inspectorate of Taxes, in any case to the unit responsible for receiving this information. It seems to me that this corresponds to the moment when Dexia's famous subsidiary stopped organizing offshore solutions for its customers. Has this 2013 law had a positive effect, yes or no? I think so. It would be interesting to be able to explore the matter. As far as Panama is concerned, as I understand it, the Consortium of Journalists, in any case the daily Le Soir, refused to provide you with information invoking the confidentiality of the sources, etc. But, free to you, Minister, to write to your Panamanian counterpart and ask him whether, to his knowledge, persons of Belgian nationality or resident in Belgium appear behind a number of offshore companies and whether they have taken up residence in this law firm Fonseca which is now famous? You have a space there to get information directly from your colleague from Panama. In addition, beyond the conventions that may exist between States, if a judicial file is opened, there is also the whole aspect of mutual legal assistance and the possibility of a rogatory commission. We must respect the principle of the separation of powers, I am merely drawing up a theoretical scheme. This theoretical scheme may lead to the fact that if there is an instruction, there may be a rogatory commission. The latter can travel to Panama to search for information. In a second stage, the ISI will be able to request access to the repressive file with the authorization of the Attorney General, which will allow all taxpayer-to-tax conclusions to be drawn. With regard to your eight new measures, we would like to have a timetable. We're in an emergency. We are currently focusing on Panama, which would affect just over 700 taxpayers, but we can legitimately ask ourselves whether it is not just a drop of water, if the phenomenon is not more important. It would be necessary to have this timetable of new measures, plus the ones we suggest, in order to be able to go as quickly as possible. I would like to continue to work quickly in the Finance Committee, without prejudice to a parliamentary committee of inquiry, to see whether the legislative arsenal currently available to the FPS Finances is sufficient to meet the challenge of combating transnational tax fraud on the basis of offshores in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that output is particularly important. In order to tackle fraud better, I see a lot of work on the table here. I mean not only the many proposals put forward by the various groups, but also the follow-up to the Minister's anti-fraud plan. I think it is very important that we should be able to deliver this in response to the Panamanian revelations. The fight must not be about whether or not we can implement a particular format for the organisation of our work. If it were to be decided to conduct a further investigation within the framework of a committee of inquiry, then I would really like to know where the complementarity with the BBI is. The Minister says that the BBI will carry out investigations with additional capacity. There will be additional tax substitutes. I would nevertheless like to have a thorough debate in which the work of a committee of inquiry could be distinguished from the work of the administration. If the administration also examines which other banks or other branches are involved, then there is no point in doing the same work on two tracks, knowing that we still have a lot of texts on the table, all of which still have to be dealt with, and that many suggestions have been made by the groups. I refer to the proposals on discrimination against Belgian and foreign account holders. Many measures have already been the subject of debate and we can really give an answer, which will enable us to translate the indignation into concrete policy actions. So I'm kind of hating the wrong fight. I would prefer to focus on concrete output and on improving the legal framework in order to do more in the fight against fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u69	Mr President, Minister, I would like to propose a working method to continue our work in a structured way. Indeed, it seems to me that there is a lot of agitation. Minister, you could not say nothing and do nothing, but the answers you gave are not up to the stakes. I am thinking here of the budgetary amounts you have entered in relation to the Panama case, but also of the means deployed. In any event, many outstanding questions will need to be answered quickly. For example, this morning I read in an excellent French-language newspaper, La Libre, how to easily escape your Cayman tax by using certain vehicles that are not included in the list you have drawn up. As far as banking institutions are concerned, questions arise as to the role of the FSMA which, according to the statements of the ISI boss, was seized of the Dexia file. Should we again question the non-role played by the FSMA, formerly the CBFA, in the banking and financial crisis? What about the 2009 Commission of Inquiry's recommendations? Are you in favour of greater penalisation of intermediaries who are complicit in fraud? I saw you were going to increase the penalties for those who wouldn't report offshore companies. If I understand correctly, it is about 6,250 euros. But in view of the hundreds of millions of euros that are fraudulent, you will admit that this is not much. In doing so, Minister, you need to do much better in the fight against fraud. As far as this committee and the future are concerned, Mr President, I think we need to move forward with a method. The Ecolo-Groen Group will therefore ask the Conference of Presidents to take up the matter. Is it already possible to put on the agenda of next week's Finance Committee all the follow-up proposals that will be made by then? I have noted the proposals of the Sp.a. colleagues. We are explicitly calling for a committee of inquiry. Various parties are open: overall opposition parties; the N-VA has expressed itself very clearly; there are openings to the VLD and the CD&V. Unless I did not pay attention, a majority party did not express itself on the idea of a commission of inquiry. Mr. PiedBoeuf, for example...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u70	You were distracted, I intervened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u71	In this case, if you could express yourself again, express your agreement or disagreement with this idea of a commission of inquiry... I find that most members of the majority are in favour of it. There is therefore still a need to agree on the exact content of this work. It is not enough to express agreement on the principle. We are available this whole week, or even this afternoon, when the Finance Committee is finished, to draw up a consensus text that could be taken into account as was done this morning for the text on the Committee of Inquiry on Terrorism, so that it can quickly be put on the agenda. Mr President, do you agree to put this draft on the agenda next week with structured proposals so that it does not go in every direction? Can we agree, if possible, to the consensus – since I feel that it is being created – so that we can move forward and give our fellow citizens elements of a response based on the tools available to Parliament to respond to a phenomenon as serious as that once again highlighted by the Panama Papers. We should leave this session knowing exactly how we're going to work. Our group will therefore refer the matter to the Conference of Presidents and I suggest that we set ourselves a goal within a week, so as to refine the way in which we can put into practice the agreement in principle of each other on the setting up of this committee of inquiry, its agenda and the best way of working quickly and effectively. If anyone disagrees, let them say it explicitly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u72	Mr President, I should like to speak on behalf of Van Hees and then to Mr. Van Biesen. Excuse me, Mr Van Biesen, but I do not want to discriminate against the PTB – at least on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u73	Mr President, thank you. It is true that, for a parliamentary committee of inquiry, we have been discriminated against. That said, this is not yet being done, since we have introduced an amendment. Minister, your answers disappoint me. First of all, you haven't answered several questions, but I'll come back to that. Then it is the content itself of your answer that leaves me pantois: "We will see", "We must wait", "The journalists do not want", etc. Excuse me, but this attitude of Calimero doesn't seem to me to be up to the stakes. There has been a great deal of talk about the involvement of banks. You just say, "The National Bank can take initiatives". The United Kingdom, which is not a country where bankers are hunted, has put an ultimatum in the Panama Papers file, while in France, justice has already searched a large bank. Therefore, your answer does not take full account of the seriousness of the issues. On the one hand, I'm not so surprised. It is well known that bankers are rather your friends and that you dream of making Brussels a second city, a financial place that would protect them from any attack – such as a Tobin tax. We understand that they would be bothered if truly effective measures were taken. I repeat: in every major fraud, we find the involvement of bankers among other financial intermediaries. The same applies to the list of tax havens. We have to wait! We are not going to take any initiative at Belgian level, we are going to let the European Union do so. Why should we wait? We don't know how long it'll take to get a common list. What prevents Belgium from having its list of tax havens? This list could serve as an example for the European Union. That is what is at stake, Minister! As far as the link between regularization and Panama Papers is concerned, we have not yet had the debate on your bill, but I repeat that it is an incentive to fraud. Can anyone who sees his name quoted in the newspapers and makes a direct application for regularization benefit from it? According to your answer, he can benefit from it! He may escape criminal prosecution by applying for regularization as soon as he has been quoted in the press. Is that normal? It doesn't seem to me! Minister, your few "measurers" are not at all up to the stakes. Chodiev, who has two billion euros of fortune and is involved in Panama Papers, must tremble in front of a fine of 6,250 euros! I guess he's shaking! Mr President, in conclusion, I believe that this parliamentary committee of inquiry is absolutely necessary in view of the seriousness of the facts. I do not know where you went in the Rules of Procedure to find that this is a competence of the Conference of Presidents. It does not seem to me that the Rules of Procedure say that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u74	When a committee of inquiry is set up, this is done on the basis of a legislative proposal, such as the committee of inquiry on terror. That bill was signed by all the political groups present in the Bureau. The proposal contains a general explanation. I happen to have seen the discussion at the Conference of Presidents on this bill, which was considered this morning. A committee of inquiry will therefore come on the basis of a legislative proposal, i.e. on the basis of a concrete text, which will be submitted and then considered by the plenary. Discussing a committee of inquiry, without knowing what the object and the finality is, is therefore currently without object. You may be in favour of such a committee, but a parliamentary procedure is not really at issue here because there is no concrete legislative text. After all, Parliament is not discussing great principles but a legislative proposal that is not there. That is the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u75	Mr President, you confirm what I have just said. The Rules of Procedure do not require this to go through the Conference of Presidents. It is true that we have not tabled a proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u76	Yes, it must be approved in the Conference of Presidents, on the basis of a concrete legislative proposal. This is then considered by the plenary and so on. That's how I always knew. Who's got a bill ready for a committee of inquiry? However, I have received a text from Mr Vanvelthoven with a proposal for a subcommittee, based on Rule 33. Within its powers, our committee is able to say today that this is a proposal from the committee. We can deliver it to the Conference of Presidents, who will then take part in the decision on composition, operation and so on. We are not having a theoretical discussion here. What bothers me, and by that I do not mean you, Mr Van Hees, is that some fellow Members are already making statements to the press in the corridors of Parliament that there will be a committee of inquiry. Certain Members of this House who sit on this committee are already making a number of statements which are not on the agenda. I don't mean you either, Mr Laaouej. It's sent to me by text. That wasn't the way it used to be. First, let us have the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u77	Mr. President, let me finish. You answer me, but I couldn't reply!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u78	We know your position.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u79	You confirm what I'm saying. You say, "You do not have a proposal for the constitution of this parliamentary inquiry." You are mixing two questions: is there a text or is it the Conference of Presidents that has to do so? (...): The Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u80	On the basis of a text.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u81	Mr President, I ask you the question. Since I am not in the Conference of Presidents and my party, which is not represented in it, do I have the right to make a proposal for the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u82	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u83	It is therefore not a prerogative of the Conference of Presidents. It's proven. We do not have a text, but nothing prevents us from already discussing the opportunity to draft this text with perhaps other parties. Nothing prevents this commission from doing so. I think it would be necessary to discuss it here and to reach conclusions today, if possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u84	Mr Van Hees, it's about procedure. There are a number of group leaders or former group leaders present. A number of Members make a proposal and it is printed in the form of a legislative proposal. Both the explanatory statement and the legislative proposal themselves will then be submitted to the Conference of Presidents. They're checking to see if they're okay. Then the proposal goes to the plenary, like this morning, to be considered, then it goes its way. A committee of inquiry is therefore set up by means of that procedure. There must first be a text to indicate what this is about. Surely we will not discuss the establishment of a committee of inquiry here, when no one knows what the subject matter is? Those Panama papers, what's that? One can understand anything and everything underneath. What is the finality, what are the recommendations that one seeks? I am not saying that you are not serious, but I am trying to say exactly what it is about at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u85	Mr President, as a general reply, I would like to thank the Minister for taking an initiative to make some fundamental adjustments to the fight against tax fraud. Today it may seem to the public and also in committee as if it would not be a priority for the majority and the government to tackle tax fraud hard. Mr Vanvelthoven, I have already said it a hundred times in the sitting: if every taxable person pays his taxes in good time and correctly, then we can reduce taxes by 15%. That's a clear signal. We have spent many years together in a majority to do a lot of work together. The most important conclusion I can draw from the question put to the Minister is that we need to find out what legal instruments we still need today to prevent elements such as those in the Panama Papers. How can we avoid such forms of tax fraud? In fact, I have not received any concrete reply to that today. Most of the measures proposed by the Minister relate to the resources. There must be more substitutes and there must be more staff at the prosecutors' offices and at the Justice Department in order to be able to process the files in a timely and faster manner. But that has nothing to do with the legal and financial instruments needed to combat tax fraud. This is one of the main tasks of our committee. Mr President, that brings me to the rules governing the work of our committee. Mr Laaouej rightly said at the beginning of the sitting that we had highlighted tax fraud as an important issue for this legislature. The procedure that was put forward at the time and which was then accepted by everyone in the Chamber is that we would do so in the Finance Committee. Perhaps there are other elements today to say that this is better done in a different form, for example in a subcommittee, a proposal from Mr Vanvelthoven. We can have a quiet exchange of views on the opportunity. However, let us also talk about the possibility of a committee of inquiry, although this subject is not on the agenda and there is no text before us today. In the previous Committee of Inquiry on Tax Fraud, we have come up with a number of recommendations, which have proved useful in the end, because many of them have been transposed into laws that can prevent fraud. After all, the essence of legislation is to ensure that certain ways of tax fraud can no longer be followed. In that committee we examined three cases, one of which was still under way, namely the Beaulieu dossier. Mr Van der Maelen, who was then Vice-President of the Committee, will remember that we had a lot of difficulties because the dossier was still under investigation. The two specialists who assisted the committee at the time, including Mr Maus, have often warned that these were important companies which had great legal resources and opportunities to trap the committee and to persuade it to make statements which could make the investigation file difficult for the BBI. If today informs the Minister that the BBI will investigate this and will test the 700 persons mentioned in the documents against the 1 200 people who have already indicated that they have offshore structures, my reflection is whether a committee of inquiry is appropriate and whether it will not rather hinder the various investigations that need to be started. However, I am prepared to examine everything together with everyone here around the table. Personally, therefore, I think it is right to look at how we can make greater progress on the subject of tax fraud, which we are discussing here every week. For example, we can ask the BBI to submit follow-up reports to Parliament so that we know clearly what is happening on the ground. Whether this should be done within our committee or within the framework of a special committee, I am not speaking on this matter today. In any case, I think it is very important that our committee not only sends a signal, but also adds actions to the floor, saying that the fight against tax fraud is essential for Parliament. When it comes to looking at how best to solve this problem, we are 100% allies in the future, in whatever formula. So I am not ruling out any formula, but I fear that with a committee of inquiry we would hinder the investigations of the BBI rather than find a solution. However, I am prepared to discuss it fairly and in peace when an exchange of views is placed on the agenda of a forthcoming committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u86	Mr President, I would like to go back to the response that the Minister of Finance has given us to welcome the inflections that I thought I saw in his speech. When one remembers the political guidance note that Ms.Sleurs had tabled on behalf of the government at the beginning of the legislature, which was, in a way, the zero degree of the fight against tax fraud, one measures the progress made. You said, on several occasions, that we had in the past closed our eyes and that this was no longer acceptable, you said that the role of Dexia Bank was unacceptable. The speech shows an awareness and I personally welcome it. The problem is that there is discourse, on the one hand, and reality, on the other, and that the actions and measures that the government is taking are in line with this emerging awareness. In this regard, I regret that today the government's signal is the tabling of this proposal for a tax amnesty. Mr. Scourneau himself said it was a bad signal. He said that not everything was bad, but that the conjunction of our debate on Panama Papers and the tabling of this proposal for a tax amnesty was a bad signal. Even if the majority says so, there is a problem in matching the anti-tax fraud discourse with the reality of the measures proposed by the government. The second missed act was the government's attitude towards OECDFO, an instrument to combat economic and financial crime that had been dismantled. It is again an act that seems to me to be in contradiction with the speech made by the Minister. In addition, your proposal contains a number of measures which are not of interest. I am thinking in particular of the constitution of this task force. Why not? She's going in the right direction. I am not sure that this is commensurate with the issues to be addressed, but I take note of these statements of intent and the measures you are announcing. In order for us, on behalf of this committee, to verify that the speech, which we share with emotion in relation to these revelations and the desire to put an end to it, is confirmed by effective acts, we cannot ignore the follow-up to all the recommendations that have been made. We must therefore, Mr President, decide on the question of this committee of inquiry or sub-committee. We can, of course, draw up texts and our colleague Marco Van Hees draw up a proposal. This may be the best way to bury the proposal permanently. What I think is important, in any case, is for the majority to take a position. Mr. Ducrame will weigh in that decision. Will the majority in the Conference of Presidents accept a committee of inquiry or not? That is the real question: it is political. If the majority says no, the bill will have no chance of success. In the absence of Plan A, which could be this Board of Inquiry, a Plan B is required. In relation to this, I support the proposal of our colleague from the Sp.a. There is indeed a need for a forum for analysis and reflection on the shortcomings that have accumulated over time, and above all on the follow-up of all the recommendations that have been made in the past. Very quickly, let's take action. Let us work in this sub-committee or in another committee, no matter what its name, so that, beyond the emotion of the moment, we can really assure ourselves and our people that the government, the Belgian state as a whole, is really determined to take structural action to put an end to the drifts episodicly revealed by the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u87	Mr President, I believe that the Minister's speech has sufficiently demonstrated that the fight against tax fraud is, of course, an important priority in his work and that of the government. The recent events which have led to this debate have caused a great deal of concern to the public. That is why it is impossible for Parliament to pretend that this has not happened. Our position on the follow-up to this case with possibly a committee of inquiry, with the special possibilities it offers, has just been explained by Mr Dedecker. We will look with great interest at how other groups react to this. We have heard a number of statements here and I have the impression that everyone is open to looking for the best formula to keep the common objective, the fight against fraud in the most efficient way, also on Parliament's agenda. It was said just now that the bill on regularisation would send a wrong signal. That would be the case if the meaning of the draft was misrepresented in public opinion. If a proposal for regularisation is seen as a kind of remission technique, it would indeed be a wrong signal. However, during the discussion, you were all able to hear the objective of the proposal. So it is not intended to wipe the sponge over things that would have happened in the past. I would also like to say that we are open to the various proposals to go as far as is possible, but we cannot break up today without an agreement on how to follow up. It is difficult to conclude this as a non-binding chat and then proceed to the order of the day. A formula must therefore be found here to see how Parliament takes its responsibilities. We are very pleased that the Minister has indicated that he will make the necessary efforts in his area. However, I would like to point out that there have already been committees of inquiry, that recommendations have already been made and that it is our joint responsibility to introduce the good proposals that have not yet been achieved, regardless of the further consideration that would be given to the new developments. It would be wise at least to allow the work of the previous committees of inquiry to result in a fruitful translation into legislation. In any case, there is work to be done for this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u88	Mr President, I would like to speak because, on the one hand, Mr Dispa makes interpretations of what I am saying and, on the other hand, Mr Gilkinet does not hear them. I would like to be very clear and I was very clear when I said it earlier. What we want is clarity on the subject. There are different ways to do this. This can be done in the Finance Committee. This can be done in a sub-committee. We can do this in a special commission. We don't have the fantasies or fetishism of commissions. What is needed is to achieve the results. So you're right: we communicate, we tweet, we text, etc. We're going in every direction. However, the text of a concrete proposal has not even been tabled. A concrete proposal cannot be discussed if it does not exist. Instead of talking all the time in the vacuum, at least file a proposal. Let us discuss it together and see what we want to do to be as effective as possible! Rather than making statements in the newspapers, we have to do something concrete and propose something.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u89	Mr President, in connection with the work, it is true that we have three possibilities. The first possibility is that we simply insert the Panama files into the committee's usual work. I believe that this is the worst possible option. The second possibility is that we should deal with them in a committee sub-committee. The third possibility is that we should set up a committee of inquiry. I agree that the mandate of a subcommittee or committee of inquiry should be subject to consultation. This needs to be deepened further. A subcommittee and a committee of inquiry each have a different impact. A committee of inquiry acts as investigating judge and can summon witnesses and interrogate them under oath. A subcommittee can't do that. Mr Van Biesen's concern is, of course, partly justified, but I do not think that it is up to any of us to examine the specific tax dossiers. What we want to investigate is whether our institutions have acted correctly. That is what we want to investigate, and whether we can learn lessons with a view to new and additional legislation. I hear Mr Van Biesen says that this is not clear to him today. That should be the result of that committee. Hiding behind the argument that we do not have a text is too easy. I believe that today we can say whether we are going to vote for a committee of inquiry and then we can draw up a research mission. If the majority does not think there should be a committee of inquiry, we can decide today to set up a subcommittee. It's one or the other. Hiding behind the fact that there is no text yet to set up a committee of inquiry, not to talk about it, is too easy. We know what the possibilities are: a subcommittee or a committee of inquiry. If the committee considers, Mr President, that there should be a committee of inquiry, that is an opinion that we can give tomorrow to the Conference of Presidents. We can say that the Finance Committee recommends that a committee of inquiry be set up and then, hopefully by consensus, the mandate will be established. Do not hide behind the fact that there is no text today. I would like to ask that is also the agreement that we have just made that we now decide what we want. I would like to hear that from every group. We have heard it from a number of groups. Other groups hide behind the fact that there is no text to say nothing. You know the difference between a subcommittee and a committee of inquiry. That difference is obvious. It is important that we take a decision and then draw up a text on the precise mandate of one or the other committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u90	Mr President, I would like to make a proposal on the method. I feel like things are getting ripe, even if it's slow. In order for a committee of inquiry to be set up, one of us must launch the idea. Like other colleagues, we have spoken on this. We must now verify that consensus is emerging. No one said, in the majority at first, that he was formally opposed to the establishment of such a commission, while referring to the possibility of a sub-committee or a special commission. I take note of this "almost" consensus. We must now work on the legal forms for the establishment of a commission of inquiry. There is indeed a need for text. As far as I am concerned, I would like this text to be signed by all parties, as was the case with the Committee on Terrorism. Of course, this text will have to be put on the agenda of the Committee on Finance and then of the plenary session. This morning, at 10 a.m., the text on the Terrorism Committee was taken into consideration. The latter is now being analysed in the Justice Committee and will be voted on Thursday. We can very well decide to take into consideration, next week, a text of consensus on the establishment of a Panama commission of inquiry whose scope has been identified. It will then be placed on the agenda of the Finance Committee so that it can be voted in favour, finally, of getting to work. Everyone has expressed anger in this commission at what is happening. We have a duty to give an answer to our compatriots, taxpayers, our voters, and we must move forward quickly. For me, we can close the discussion today, on the assumption that a beginning of consensus has been reached. The Conference of Presidents could discuss the matter on Wednesday. If the discussions are sufficiently advanced and a text is drawn up, it could be put on the agenda of the Finance Committee next week. One might even imagine that the relevant text could be taken into consideration on Thursday. Indeed, writing a text is not difficult, even though I recognize that it is a little more difficult to write a text that is suitable for everyone. But we did it for terrorism. I do not see why, while everyone agrees that what is happening with Panama is not acceptable, we would not be able to write a text together. I am also prepared to contribute to the drafting of this text, to make a first proposal or to reread the text. Mr President, is it possible for the proposal to be submitted to the Conference of Presidents on Wednesday, to put it on the agenda next week while working together on a text that could be the subject of consensus? It is clear that this text will be negotiated as to its exact form. At this point, Mr President, we are not far from consensus. Of course, today no text has been tabled and a fortiori taken into account. But the discussion that we had allowed the subject to mature.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, I am chairman of a committee. In that capacity, I must abide by the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber and what can or cannot be decided by law in this committee. A committee of inquiry is governed by the law of 3 May 1880. I had that looked up. So that law is almost as old as Belgium. If a decision is taken to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry, this must be done on the basis of a text. At present there is no text in this respect, so we cannot decide on this or even formulate any intentions. I've been following the discussion very well. The question arises as to what will be the subject of that committee of inquiry. The subject may be the Panama Papers, but that can be filled in very widely. Some say here that this committee of inquiry should examine what has been done by the government in recent years against fraud and that it should be checked whether the BBI has sufficient legal instruments. The Minister announces a task force in which he will tighten things up, so there are apparently flaws. A committee of inquiry can be very broadly defined. If we decide to set it up, this can only be done on the basis of a text, as was the case with the committee of inquiry into the recent acts of terrorism, which was considered in plenary this morning. A text of a few pages describes very precisely what the committee will or will not investigate. We have just heard from the Minister that he does not actually have the Panama Papers. We also don't know if we'll get them, let alone when the BBI will investigate them. It's also about individual files. Suppose we start with a committee of inquiry in a few days' time, then we do not have the Panama Papers. After all, where are they located? We must also examine the legal implications and take into account what the BBI says about them. We can't even discuss individual files. Hundreds of questions arise. If it is decided to set up a committee of inquiry, I can only say as chairman that this is not currently the case. We must wait for a legislative proposal to do so. If there is a great consensus among the political groups on this, then it can happen very quickly, so I have no problem with that. As a committee, we can follow Mr Vanvelthoven's proposal to set up a subcommittee. Mr Laaouej made a similar proposal. A committee of inquiry should be possible in one, two or three weeks. However, we must also consider to what extent the Panama Papers file will or will not be dealt with by the government and by the BBI. We in Parliament should also have access to the file. How can we start a committee of inquiry without files? I'm sure it'll pass for a while. In the interim period, we could work out a number of things in a subcommittee, as Mr Vanvelthoven has just proposed. These matters are related, if I read Mr Vanvelthoven's text correctly, whether or not I have access to the Belgian part of the Panama Papers. I know what you mean. We can decide in committee that we will set up a working group to work on a legislative proposal for a committee of inquiry in the next few days, or a working group to define a subcommittee. We can decide on such matters formally, but as a committee we cannot decide on an intention process and simply say that we are all in favour of a committee of inquiry, without knowing exactly what that means and what its finality is. After all, a committee of inquiry can have many finalities. Mr Van Biesen has been a member of a number of committees of inquiry. I have also done so in the Flemish Parliament, among other things on ship loans, at the time of Karel De Gucht. I have even been the subject of this as a minister. This should lead to a number of conclusions and policy recommendations. We need to know what is being investigated and whether we are not intervening in ongoing investigations. The proposal for a directive on tax regularisation explicitly states that research is to be carried out, that it is to be stopped, but when are they to be made and so on? Some people are insinuating that Parliament does not take Panama Papers 100% socially seriously. We need to find out how this can be done in Parliament and how we can respect the functioning of our institutions. That is my final point. When a committee of inquiry is set up, it is about tax fraud, but it is also about much more than that. It is therefore about tax treaties, tax havens, our tax legislation and so on. That therefore has implications for the normal functioning of the Finance Commission, which continues to exist. If we deal with a draft tax regulation in the coming weeks and there is also a committee of inquiry, we will not hear the BBI twice. The establishment of certain sub-committees or committees of inquiry will also have an impact on the normal functioning and range of action of the existing committee, which will ultimately have to make the legislation. All this needs to be looked at together. I do not think that the committee is yet ready to formally indicate the routes, even though the finality is the same for everyone. That is clear from the discussion. The government too would not rather ask us to do our job on the ground. We are also dependent on information from the government and the administration. It's not just about Belgium. Next Monday there will be the TAXE committee in the European Parliament with Mr Alain Lamassoure. The European Parliament is also working on a number of issues. We must all see this in its context, because the finality must be that we take measures here to prevent tax fraud. An umpteenth round of mutual discussion doesn't benefit much. I haven't been through the discussions here. I was a member of the Flemish Parliament at the time. After all, everyone states that 60 resolutions on fraud were adopted here five years ago and that only eight have been implemented. I wasn't here at that time. However, we must ensure that in five years' time our successors will not be able to claim in Parliament that 70 resolutions came from the Panama Committee in 2016, of which only ten were implemented. Jan Verroken, a former Member of Parliament of CD&V, who you may no longer have known and next to whom I sat on the benches for a certain period of time, always said: "If you bite in politics, you must have meat." That was his adadium. If we are now discussing the matter of the Panama Papers on the ground, we must also ensure that when we bite the caiman tax, we have not only fish but also meat. You can only ask me as President that I take the previous decision on the basis of what I have heard. Mr Laaouej, I can no longer decide or decide, unless there is a majority in committee. You can put the Vanvelthoven proposal forward. I don't know if it meets all the formal requirements. It's signed. If you ask for the vote on that proposal, I would like to put it to you here. It is my job as chairman to follow the procedures as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u92	Mr President, may I try to reach a conclusion which is somewhat different from yours? I understand that in the meantime all groups have voted in favour of a committee of inquiry, subject to explicit MR, Open Vld and CD&V. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u93	You're open to it, but you haven't said yes yet. Given that the establishment of a committee of inquiry is best dealt with in the Conference of Presidents, I would like to propose that we wait and see what the Conference of Presidents decides tomorrow. That is why I will not ask for a vote today on my proposal to set up a subcommittee. Tomorrow, the Conference of Presidents will decide in principle whether or not to set up a committee of inquiry. If nothing were to come, I would ask that we then meet here tomorrow afternoon or Thursday afternoon to vote on the proposal to set up a subcommittee. That is how we signal, even if there were no committee of inquiry, that we will decide this week that the subcommittee will be there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u94	We have a committee meeting tomorrow morning in connection with the tobin tax. I suggest that tomorrow, after the discussion on the tobin tax... when will the Conference of Presidents take place? (...): At 11:30.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u95	Then we can see where we stand around noon. We can't do more than that. We must wait and see what the Conference of Presidents decides tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u96	If the Conference has not yet decided, I would like a decision from the committee on this matter this week.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-12-54-commissie-ic374x.u97	We can discuss that tomorrow afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, we have had a wide exchange of views. We'll meet tomorrow at 10:00 for the tobin tax review. At 12:00 p.m. we can arrange the work. Thank you, Minister, for being here.
