ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u1	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, a few weeks ago, I asked you about the supposed breakdown of the educational services of the Royal Museums of Art and History (MRAH). At first glance, your answer was rather reassuring. However, when I read the full report very carefully, I began to worry. You stressed the need to reform the educational services of museums for financial reasons by citing, for example, the Museum of Musical Instruments. I see in your approach a very economic concept of culture and education, which one can wonder whether it is compatible with the emancipation and public service missions that they should underlie. You announced that you would use freelances to replace the current teams that would be redirected to other tasks. As a result, other questions came to mind. First, who will fund these new commitments, as they are in addition to the current teams that will be redirected to other services? Then, what will be the planned free-lance workforce for the education services of the MRAH? How will these teams be composed? In addition, to replace the professional educational services of museums, you propose "original" ideas. I quote: "asking trainee teachers to create educational content, getting grandparents to develop a teaching mission towards their grandchildren and accompanying more tourists in their visit". Madam Secretary of State, these proposals seem to be nice at the beginning. Who wouldn't dream of having grandparents taking you to the Museum of Africa, to see the canoe and, even more spectacular, observe all these bugs in the formol, of which I keep an emotional memory and restless nights. However, with these proposals, we are still far enough, and even thousands of kilometres away, from the idea of a public education service. It's DIY, no more or less. By what skills will you influence the Internship Teacher Program? How do you plan to touch grandparents? Why not the parents, anyway? What about children who no longer have grandparents? These proposals do not seem to me to be serious, nor are they really an alternative to educational services that work on a daily basis for continuing education, the reception of schools and access to culture. A testimony was in the newspaper Le Soir of a few days ago. It came from audiences from underprivileged neighbourhoods, for whom the discovery of the Royal Museums of Art and History had been a journey, of which one can see the interest from a more global point of view. In conclusion, Madam Secretary of State, I would like to ask myself this new question about the future of the educational services of the Royal Museums of Art and History. I ask you for more details on the practical ways to maintain quality educational services, but also to optimize them in the various federal museums.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u2	Mr President, Mr Cheron, as you know, the Royal Museums of Art and History are in an important phase of transition. Under no circumstances were there any mention made of abolishing educational activities, dismissing educational staff or causing financial harm to them. In view of the more attractive scientific status granted to museum guides as a result of the Copernicus reform, which did not meet the usual profile of the scientific researcher (scientific research activities, publications in specialized journals), management expects these workers to participate constructively in the modernization of their service, which has been announced and planned. Some members of the education service should also take part in the organization and renovation of the rooms, the design of temporary exhibitions and the development of new projects, as well as the computerization of the inventory. Until the reorganization is complete, it is impossible to determine exactly how many free-lance guides will be required. However, this number is estimated at about 50, depending on the number and size of temporary exhibitions, and taking into account the number of staff to be assigned to the new educational service, which is estimated to be 10 to 12 people, with an expanded working regime if possible. Since the cost of a freelance is lower than that of the scientist, the MRAH have chosen to entrust, in the future, the preparation of the new guided tours to the permanent team of the museum, and to leave the task of carrying out the classical guided tours, so-called standards, to the independent guides. These people will be supervised by the museum staff, as is already the case. Custom guided tours will also be offered and conducted by museum staff and even by a curator. Free-lance guides are hired per mission and paid for the service provided, at established rates of pay. For example, for a 90-minute guided tour, free-lance guides receive 60 euros on weekdays, 65 euros on weekends or evenings and for 2-hour workshops, 65 euros on weekdays and 75 euros on weekends. These workshops give the public 75 euros on weekdays and 85 euros on weekends respectively. Interns from education will be able to continue to collaborate in the development of activities for children and young people. We will also focus on grandparents as experience has shown that it is mainly they who come to visit the museum on weekdays, Wednesday afternoon with their grandchildren. The reorganization of MRAHs will have to be reassessed after a certain period of time and, if necessary, corrected in collaboration with the staff concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u3	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I listened very carefully. I will review the answers carefully to see to what extent they are reassuring from a definitive point of view with regard to statutory staff, to what free-lances can or may not bring and to the somewhat more moderate, albeit very useful, share entrusted to grandparents. I will allow myself to continue to follow this issue on a day-to-day basis. I understand that what is at stake is this great reform, the clusters you imagine, and that is probably where the future lies. Believe me, I will continue to pay particular attention to this great reform, which, while I have understood correctly, is still not adopted by the government. So I'll come back.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u4	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, at the beginning of the legislature, you outlined your research and development priorities. These include objectives which must necessarily be carried out in collaboration with the Communities and the Regions. Federal aid must be listed and managed in a coordinated manner so that it is aligned with regional and community policy. An evaluation of the structures for concertation in the field of scientific policy must be carried out in order to optimise the presence of the various Belgian authorities at European research level. The technology platform developed in collaboration with the Planning Office needs to be improved to allow Regions and Communities to compare with what is being done abroad. I asked you about this last year and you confirmed that I was working in consultation with the Regions, giving me several examples of cooperation with Flanders, but not very much with the Walloon Region or Brussels. Madam Secretary of State, a year and a half after you took office, how would you describe your cooperation with the Walloon and Brussels Regions in the field of research and development? Is there a specific agenda for collaboration between the Federal Science Policy, Regions and Communities? What is the status of the development of the international benchmarking platform, incorporating all the statistical indicators for research and innovation at international level?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u5	Mr President, Mrs Cassart, the institutional landscape of Belgium is marked by a division of powers between the various entities of the country in the field of scientific research and innovation. In order to make this institutional framework effective, various platforms for consultation have been set up to coordinate Belgium's research and innovation (R&I) efforts, including the contribution to the priorities of the European Research Area and the question of Belgium's representativeness in international bodies and working groups. These platforms for consultation are, at the political level, interdepartmental conferences on R&I. The Interdepartmental Conference on Science Policy is the most obvious body, but other conferences, such as the Interdepartmental Conference on the Environment, sometimes address topics related to R&I as well. At the administrative level, the Standing Committees, the Commission for International Cooperation (CIS) and the Commission for Federal Cooperation (CFS) to refer only to those under the Federal Science Policy have set up a series of specialised consultation groups, responsible inter alia for preparing the Belgian delegation's position in the programme committees of the EU Framework Programme. An example of cooperation is the implementation of the European regulation on invasive alien species (EEA), which requires the establishment of a cooperation agreement between the Federal State, the Communities and the Regions. The implementation of the EEA Regulation cannot be achieved without the indispensable scientific support of the Belgian Biodiversity Platform, an initiative of the Federal Science Policy. The cooperation agreement will therefore be signed by the ministers responsible for nature conservation and the ministers responsible for research, within the framework of an interdepartmental conference on the wider environment for research. The agenda is defined according to the needs identified and discussed in the framework of existing platforms for consultation. The CIS-CFS meetings, usually held every two months, provide an opportunity for such exchanges. The platform has been fully operational since 17 February 2015 and can be accessed at www.innovationdata.be. It is updated twice a year to incorporate the latest data. At the regional and community levels, some bibliometric indicators were still missing as a result of methodological and other difficulties inherent in the exercise. These indicators are now ready and can also be inserted into the platform. The data put on the innovationdata.be platform cover inputs and outputs: R&D inputs, expenditure and library and output innovation of the Belgian innovation system, as well as other data relevant to R&D. Information is accessible to all sectors of performance, business, government and higher education.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u6	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. If possible, I may ask for a copy of the many information you have provided. You said that focus groups have been set up. A cooperation agreement will be signed. I really insist on the important work with federated entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u7	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, more than a year ago, I asked you about the return on investment in the space market. At the ESA Ministerial Council of 2 December 2014, Belgium decided to participate in the development of the new Ariane 6 launcher, in the evolution of the Vega launcher, in the operation of international space stations and in several programmes which were not yet fully funded or which required additional subscriptions. Belgium had made a firm commitment of EUR 238.14 million. In the ESA Convention and according to the rule of fair return, the expected return on investment was equal to one. In fact, Belgian participation in the various programmes, with the exception of operating costs, was reflected in contracts signed with Belgian actors. According to the OECD, the multiplier effect for the economy ranged from 1.4 to 4.9 in terms of the direct and indirect benefits of public space investment. In your opinion, therefore, one could safely say that a euro invested in research and space development generated a return of six euros for the economy. For the next ESA Ministerial Council scheduled for 2016, the Space Department will take stock of the situation regarding the regional breakdown of return on investment. Proposals for participation in new programmes will take into account the commitments for launchers, which will be announced in Luxembourg, in order to achieve an overall distribution which is fair within the country, which values and contributes to the development of the scientific and technical space present in the federal institutions and in each of the three Communities and Regions. Madam Secretary of State, can you tell me where you are in this case? When will the next ESA Ministerial Council take place? What will be Belgium's position? What about the expected return on investment in the space market?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u8	Mrs Cassart, the next ESA Ministerial Council will take place on 1 and 2 December 2016 in Lucerne. Currently, this Council is being prepared through meetings of the steering committees of various programmes and meetings of the monthly working group of the ESA Council, which met for the first time on 21 April. My services regularly participate in these meetings in order to submit to the Council of Ministers a proposal for Belgium's participation in the programmes proposed by ESA. As part of this preparation, the Federal Science Policy will prepare a space report that will take up the status of Belgium's previous commitments in space programmes and the impact of these commitments. The Space Service will study ESA's programme proposals and make a proposal to me which I will have analysed by the Council of Ministers. The Belgian position is not yet determined because the programmes proposed by ESA are not yet finalized. Currently, a survey of actors in the Belgian space sector is under way to update economic data, mainly turnover and employment. In short, the traditional preparation of an ESA interministerial conference is being initiated and will be finalized taking into account the commitments and agreements made in 2014 by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u9	Minister, thank you for your answers. This is an important issue for Belgium, a matter of interest to us. So I wanted to take stock with you. In my opinion, 2016 will be your year, because many cases have to be completed and important decisions will be made. We'll wait. ESA programmes will also arrive and we will be able to take different positions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u10	Mr. Chair, Madam Secretary of State, a few months ago, I was asking you about your vision note on the empowerment of FSEs (Federal Scientific Institutions) and the overall reform of the SPS (Scientific Policy). Indeed, in its current form, the PS PPS has a complex relationship with the FSEs as it is involved in political direction, funding decisions, management and administrative support at the same time. It was therefore planned, in the government agreement, to integrate the PS PPS elsewhere as a Directorate-General. To do this, a vision note on the empowerment of FSEs and the overall reform of the PS PPS was to be submitted to the government initially before the end of 2015. Madam Secretary of State, it has been a bit late, so I would like to take stock with you today. Can you tell me what progress has been made on this issue? Has the vision note been submitted to the government? If so, what are the main elements? If not, when is it planned? Can you tell me if it is possible to obtain a copy of this note?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u11	Madam Secretary of State, a global reform of Belspo and the FWI's is under way. This reform should result in a real independence, with each institution having its own dot, policy plan and more decision-making power. For support services, shared services can lead to economies of scale.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u12	There is a technical problem of translation. I invite Mrs Claerhout to take up her question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u13	It has been repeatedly stressed in the past that consultation with Belspo and the FWI's is important to achieve such a reform, especially because it has the expertise and knowledge of many problems and solutions. Madam Secretary of State, what is the state of the reform? What is the timeline for the different steps during this legislature? On which specific aspects will the reform give more autonomy to the FSIOs? What will the FWI debt holders be able to take more independent policy decisions than at present? Will the reform also involve a review of the distribution of resources between the institutions? Why is that? Why is that? Was a benchmarking carried out per institution in terms of the resources received by similar institutions in our neighbouring countries? Finally, I have a question that I think is very important. What form does the consultation with Belspo and the FWI take? Madam Secretary of State, how do you deal with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u14	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, the months follow each other and progress in the field of scientific policy is slow. In particular, you told us about a vision note that was to implement the major reform of the federal scientific institutions. Parliamentarians are wondering about this and are looking forward, but also anxious, to this vision note, which was initially promised in your policy note before the end of 2015. On February 17, 2016, you said that this note was finalized but under discussion in an intercabinet working group. Madam Secretary of State, when will this vision note finally be available? What are the reasons for this delay? How are federal scientific institutions involved in finalizing this note?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u15	Mr President, as I have said in reply to Question No 1, I would like to make a few comments. 7963 of 15 December 2015 the vision paper was discussed within the government during several IKWJS. Different clarifications were made and some aspects were further developed. The elements of our reform were also discussed in detail with stakeholders, such as the FWI, the Scientific Councils of the FWI and the Federal Science Policy Council. To deal more precisely with these discussions, Mrs Claerhout, I have already made many rounds of public discussions, both with the federal and with scientific councils, with the directors, the management committees and with Belspo. This has been preceded by several hours of consultation with myself and my cabinet, and that is still ongoing. These interactions with stakeholders, whether directly or indirectly concerned with federal science policy, have led to an interesting exercise and a better understanding of the subject matter. As you know, the concrete issues I'm working on right now are the empowerment of FSEs into autonomous clusters, the foundation of the Interfederal Space Agency, the abolition of the Science Policy PPS and the establishment of a General Directorate of Science Policy within the most appropriate FPS. With regard to the Inter-federal Space Agency, legislation is currently being discussed in inter-cabinet working groups. It goes without saying that I will take care of the inter-federal nature of this agency, as provided for in the government agreement. With regard to the dossier on the empowerment of FSEs, we are currently further developing the proposal in legal and technical terms, taking into account all the contributions and reactions we have received from the parties concerned. The aim is to achieve in-depth autonomy. As agreed in the government agreement, the TSOs will have their own staffing. This must, in particular, ensure that their core tasks are fulfilled. To do so, we are putting in place a transparent mechanism, which will be part of the empowerment process. Since these are important initiatives in terms of management, with all the technical and legal complexity involved, we need sufficient cooperation to reach an agreement. In this important case, I try to follow the following timetable. In early 2017 the foundation of the Space Agency will take place. The removal and integration of the Science Policy PPS will take place in mid-2017. The cluster foundation will take place in the second half of 2017 or early 2018. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u16	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. We will continue to follow up on this issue and see how it evolves. I said this from the outset in the previous question: a lot will happen in 2016. I think it's time for this file to be completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u17	Madam Secretary of State, thank you. I'll read your answer again quietly, because it all happened rather quickly. I notice that you are working out a number of proposals. We have already received this answer a number of times, but once again we are not getting any details. Yeah, we're working on legal constructions. Yes, there will be far-reaching autonomy. Yes, there will be a transparent mechanism. Yeah, it's technically and legally complex. Yes, you're working on that, but we still haven't got a better idea of what your vision is and where you're going with it. I am therefore disappointed in your answer. I will read it again, and we will follow it closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u18	Madam Secretary of State, as I mentioned in my question, on 17 February you stated that this note was final, but that it was being discussed in the intercabinets working group. Three months have passed. We're still in the intercabinets phase. I can understand that, but you do not provide new information in this regard so that we do not know your strategic vision. That's why I'm afraid. The institutions in question should be reassured. In your reply to Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, you referred to the link with the federated entities. Yet, when I hear your answer, I don't feel like you're moving forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u19	Progress is mainly due to the fact that there is a great deal of consultation with the directors and management of the institutes. However, we do not give any additional details during the consultation. We will inform you as soon as the consultation is completed. The consultations shall be conducted in detail. The parties concerned have been consulted on several occasions. However, it concerns 10 different institutions with their own vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u20	Normally Parliament has the last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u21	Mr President, Parliament obviously has the last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u22	We have heard your supplementary reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u23	These ten institutions will receive the same allocation as before, as I have explained several times to their respective directors. My contacts with management and staff are numerous.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u24	We have heard your further explanations, and I thank you for that. I just wanted to say that I wanted to give the speakers the floor back, because they must have the last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u25	After that, I'm done!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u26	It's an important file.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u27	Madam Secretary of State, the questions relating to this file have followed. You're telling us it takes time. I can understand that, but we will have to finish this year. Our role is to follow the development of this issue, which seems to me to be in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u28	Madam Secretary of State, I have always assumed that the matter would take a lot of time. That is not the issue. However, you cannot continue to hide behind this discussion. My questions relate to your principles in that consultation. How exactly do you handle the consultation? For example, is the vision paper being discussed? Have the scientific councils themselves been given the opportunity to read that note thoroughly, to discuss it thoroughly and to ask for detailed advice on it? Those are the questions I am dealing with and the issues on which I am also picking up signals.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u29	Mr President, I just wanted to make it clear that the dates mentioned in my question are dates that the Secretary of State herself mentioned in answers. I'm not making up anything. Madam Secretary of State, this is your timetable and I hear that in your reply you have again given a timetable. Allow parliamentarians to question the dates you are transmitting! Like my colleague, Sarah Claerhout, I have a number of questions about the content, about the consultation, about the "who does what". For the moment, I am in the fog and it poses difficulties.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u30	Colleagues, the case remains open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u31	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, we have already referred to the new technical standards for record keeping guidelines. As a reminder, the objective is to increase the internal conservation capacity of the General Archives of the Kingdom and State Archives in the Provinces (AGR), to make security copies and to acquire a new management system for the longer-term preservation of archival collections. You told me, in my previous question on the subject, that you wanted to close this case in March 2016 in order to publish the circular and the ministerial decree as soon as possible. Madam Secretary of State, what is the status of this case? Is it closed? If this is not the case, when do you think you will finish it? When will the circular and ministerial order be issued? When will they come into force? What are the guidelines? What are the added value of these new standards? Will the services concerned be involved in their implementation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u32	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I also have a question concerning archives. The federal government has several archive spaces and also sets up new ones. The volume of archive documents increases annually. It is important that all documents useful to offspring remain available, including for future historical and scientific research, without any loss of quality. This requires, inter alia, monitoring of temperature, hygrometry and the control of damage causes such as hydrogen, light, insects, burglary prevention and fire safety. I refer to the reply to the written question 0171 of 2 October 2015 and the intention to issue the necessary royal decision in 2015 or at the latest early 2016 and to allow that decision to be preceded by a circular. Madam Secretary of State, that is why I have the following questions to ask you. What are the technical standards to be met by the federal administrations in the establishment of archives? What is the state of the circular and the royal decree? What is the deadline for public administrations to comply with these standards for archives?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u33	Mr President, the ministerial decision and the circular have not yet been published. However, a working group of experts from the Government of the Buildings, the Scientific and Technical Centre for the Construction Company and the National Archives has prepared a draft ministerial decision and circular text. That draft text was delivered to the acting chairman of the Management Committee of the Federal Science Policy on 14 March 2016. On 13 April 2016, the Finance Inspector delivered his opinion on the Ministerial Decision to me. The National Archives, in consultation with the Legal Service of the Federal Science Policy, amended the draft Ministerial Decision on the basis of the comments made by the Finance Inspector. We are currently awaiting the second opinion of the Finance Inspector. However, he has already stated in his opinion that the draft Ministerial Decree should also be submitted for advice to the Finance Inspectorate accredited to the Buildings Regie. In addition, consultations are planned with the Presidents of the colleges of the public institutions. Taking into account the steps to be taken, a precise deadline is difficult to set, but I am confident that both texts will be ready for signature within one and a half months. The entry into force of the decree is foreseen on the first day of the third month following its publication in the Belgian Moniteur. The Ministerial Decree provides for the partial implementation of article 6 of the Royal Decree of 18 August 2010 implementing articles 5 and 6 of the Law of 24 June 1955 on Archives. It describes the technical standards and basic rules to be met by the archives. In the first place, archives for the preservation of paper archives. Secondly, those intended for the preservation of archives on media other than paper and digital archives on media without power supply or on media with unconnected power supply. Third, those intended for the preservation of digital archive media with concentrated power supply (datacenters). The Ministerial Order applies to archival premises located in buildings that are still to be constructed or substantially renovated or in recently leased buildings, as from the entry into force of the Order. The records managers of the services falling within the scope of the Ministerial Order and the officers of the Régie des Bâtiments will each be responsible for ensuring that the technical standards listed in the Ministerial Order are applied.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u34	As with the other files, I thank the minister. I wish to have a copy of his answer. Patience is not a great virtue in me, but I know that sometimes it takes time for files to be completed. I will come back to you in a little while compared to all the issues we have dealt with today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u35	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary of State. You didn't make the last deadline, but I hope you'll make it to the next one. Good luck.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u36	(...) the Finance Inspector.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u37	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, on 15 March 2016, the Google Cultural Institute and the Royal Museums of Fine Arts in Belgium announced the creation, as a world premiere, of the "Bruegel/Unseen Masterpieces" project, which to date brings together eight prestigious international museums around the figure of the famous painter. In concrete terms, twelve masterpieces will be visible to the general public online, with a very high level of detail thanks to the use of state-of-the-art technologies. This is undoubtedly a good project in terms of public-private partnership. I welcome this, especially since I also regularly advocate for measures that bring all cultural poles closer to the citizens. Madam Secretary of State, what was the exact contribution of the Royal Museums of Fine Arts in this project? Have a specific budget and human resources been mobilized for this initiative? Are your services currently under discussion with the Google Cultural Institute to enable the digitization and accessibility to the general public of other works of our national heritage? What steps have been taken to inform citizens of the implementation of this project? Is an information campaign already under way?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u38	Mr Calomne, the Royal Museums of Fine Arts in Belgium have contributed to this project both in terms of concept and of scientific content. A Doctor of Art History could be hired through a FNRS grant to carry out scientific activities for a period of two years. Various possibilities are currently being explored, but there is not yet a concrete project. The institution wanted to inform the public about the implementation of this project through articles in the national and international press, as well as via social networks Facebook or Twitter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u39	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. It is a world first and I therefore believe that it deserves specific publicity in order to highlight this initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u40	Madam Secretary of State, the government agreement of 10 October 2014 already specified the creation of an "Interfederal Office for Space". Your policy note, discussed in December 2015, stated that the bill for the creation of this Interfederal Space Agency would be submitted to the government by the end of 2015. This agency was to be operational by 1 January 2016 at the latest. We're way further in the timing. I interviewed you on February 17, 2016 and my colleague Catherine Fonck interviewed the Prime Minister on February 25, 2016. You both seemed very reassuring about the establishment of this agency and the rapid tabling of the bill. This is not the case for the sector that remains concerned about its future. The expectations of the world of researchers and scientists are immense, particularly as regards the preservation of their network, knowledge and know-how; not to mention all those working in the space sector and partner companies. I do not need to remind you that the Belgian space sector is a real economic issue with an annual turnover of around 350 million euros and some 4 000 direct jobs, not to mention indirect jobs. It is therefore essential to preserve it. In particular, you said in response to my question that everything was in place not to interfere with the preparation of the ESA Interministerial Conference, scheduled for December 2016. What is the status of the draft law establishing the Belgian Space Agency? Is the creation of this agency still scheduled for January 1, 2017? What measures have been put in place to ensure that there is no interference with the Interministerial Conference? At the budgetary level, does the planned agreement meet the expectations of the Finance Inspectorate? Is the sector still being consulted at this stage of the bill? If so, how?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u41	Dear colleague, the draft law and the royal decrees on the creation and operation of the Belgian Space Agency have been presented in intercabinets. Once the discussion process has been finalized, the dossier will be presented for agreement to the Council of Ministers and then followed the normal legislative process. In the current state of the case, we are aiming for implementation by early January 2017. Priority is given to the preparation of the next ESA Ministerial Conference to be held in Lucerne on 1 and 2 December 2016. Despite the increase in work associated with the creation of the Belgian Space Agency, the Belspo Space Service pays as much attention to this preparation as at previous ministerial conferences. Both files advance in parallel without interfering in their respective fields. The Finance Inspectorate has already issued two opinions. These are taken into account as far as possible. Budget discussions continue with the Minister of Budget. The sector was widely consulted and kept informed of the progress of the case. Recently, on 19 April, a presentation of the report was made at the Belgo-Swiss General Assembly. The information has also been transmitted to space actors through contacts of their collaborators within my firm and the Federal Science Policy. Every effort should now be made to make this agency operational as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u42	Madam Minister, thank you. I'll come back to you about the dates you've just set. We, as parliamentarians, are often in the fog with regard to the content and measures that will be taken, in particular not to interfere with the Interministerial Conference of ESA. You said there were two reports from the Inspector of Finance. I conclude that the delivery is painful. I expect that we will be able to move forward on the subject, to know more, and above all to have a return from the operators and partners of the system.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u43	I take it that we take date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u44	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, the dispute between Alain Hubert and the Scientific Policy is not dated from yesterday. Legal decisions are multiplying but not similar. You also tried to take stock of the matter at the February 17, 2016 commission. It seems to me that the last judgment dated 20 January 2016 and that an order still has to be made concerning the merits of the case and the right to property. Following the various decisions, an inventory was to be prepared between the Polar Secretariat and the International Polar Foundation. This inventory was carried out in February. My only concern is to ensure the sustainability and effectiveness of the Polar Station and all of its research programs, so let me ask you about its future. I would like to ask you three questions. 1. Has an inventory agreement been reached between the Polar Secretariat and the Polar Foundation? 2. What is the status of the distribution of equipment? Has the property been established? 3. When will the expected property order normally be issued?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u45	Mr President, Mr de Lamotte, I should like to point out that the judgment of 20 January refers to the decision on the return of the missing material, on the penalty payments in case of non-restitution and on the prohibition of disturbing the public mission of the Polar Secretariat. The decision to establish an adversarial inventory was made by the judgement of 17 December 2015. This ruling maintains the ban on members of the International Polar Foundation from accessing the Princess Elisabeth Polar Station. In accordance with that judgement, the contradictory inventory should have been established after 23 February this year. The Belgian State and the IPF (International Polar Foundation) each appoint four persons to be responsible for the preparation of this inventory. In order to facilitate the implementation of this inventory and to demonstrate our goodwill, it was agreed that the work would take place between 19 and 23 February 2016. But this delay had to be shortened due to major climatic disturbances, which, on the one hand, delayed the arrival of the IPF team on the white continent at the end of February and, on the other hand, precipitated the departure of the Belare team on the 21st February afternoon. Despite all the efforts, the contradictory inventory of the mechanical fleet could not be drawn up. It has since been agreed with the IPF that this inventory will be completed in Belgium. This is done on the basis of the Belgian State's inventory, which was completed during the last Belare campaign, and on the information provided by the IPF, which remained at the polar station after the departure of the Belare team. The Belgian State and the IPF agreed to discuss this contradictory inventory in order to finalise it, as requested in the judgment of 17 December. Despite the various procedures under way, there is to date no dispute between the State and the IPF over ownership of the equipment and devices. However, we are of the view that actions that could disrupt the public mission could no longer be permitted, including the action to promote the social object of the IPF authorized by the judgement of 17 February 2015, making de facto the possibility of access to the IPF impossible. We also see possible interference here. Everything that has been achieved since my entry into office has as its sole objective the development of the scientific programs of the polar station Princess Elisabeth and the optimal use of the base. This optimization requires transparency in terms of station management and sources of funding. As shown by the successful campaign according to the scientists of Belare 15-17, this despite the limited time devoted to preparation and despite some climatic disturbances, a very short and sometimes not optimal preparation period.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u46	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I take note of the different dates you gave. It remains to be seen now where we are going and how we are going to work, which is why I intend to come back to the issue at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u47	Question No 11222 by Mr Daniel Senesael is postponed
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u48	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, on 26 April 2016, you announced that you had released a budget of 170,000 euros to help promote the three federal museums in Brussels and the Planetarium, whose attendance has fallen sharply following the attacks in Paris and Brussels. More specifically, the Royal Institute of Natural Sciences, the Royal Museum of Art and History and the Royal Museums of Fine Arts will each receive 50,000 euros, while the Planetarium will receive an envelope of 20,000 euros. These additional resources for the promotion of these museums are excellent news, and I would like to commend the government's commitment to culture in Brussels. Like many parts of the economy in Brussels, these cultural poles suffer and it is therefore important to help them. Madam Secretary of State, can you tell us what allocations have been made to these various grants of funds? In practical terms, is the use of the financial envelope a matter for the institutions' free appreciation or, on the contrary, have you defined, in direct synergy with them, a specification in terms of the allocation and allocation of these resources? Finally, can you tell me whether similar measures are currently under consideration for other federal cultural institutions located in Brussels? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u49	Mr. Calomne, to counter the decline in the number of visitors to federal museums, promotional campaigns will be launched to focus on the permanent collections of these museums. Each promotion campaign will be based on proposals defined by the institutions concerned and my firm. For the Planetarium, a promotion campaign on television and in cinemas will be organised for a budget of 20 000 euros. A video spot will be made and broadcast on television channels or in Kinepolis located in Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia. For the Museum of Natural Sciences, this is the summer 2016 promotion plan (June, July, August) until the Poison exhibition, which will be the subject of a new campaign. The aim is to make visitors the ambassadors of the Institute to the members of their respective social networks. The estimated budget of EUR 50 000 will be used in the framework of the "Ambassadors" action: special issue of postcards entitled to a reduction in the price of the entrance ticket, the rental of a photobooth and a vacuumooth and the insertion of advertisements in the national written press and advertisements targeted on Facebook. At the Royal Museums of Art and History (MRAH) and more particularly at the Museums of the Cinquantenaire, as part of the campaign "100 Masters" organized from 18 May to 27 August 2016 by the Brussels Council of Museums, for 100 days, it will be 100 masterpieces that will be honored. For their part, the MRAH also intend to give a selective and eclectic overview of the richness of their permanent collection through some master pieces such as "the broken ear" or "the mysterious Sphinx". A film will be created for this purpose and broadcast on national TV channels VRT and RTBF, as well as on YouTube, social networks and museum websites. With a view to organising a Medieval Day on June 12, a budget of 4,000 euros will be used to pay for advertising spaces in Gezinsbond and Le Ligueur and to organize the various activities (demonstration of medieval fighting, archery stands, disguises for children, guided tours, theatres, etc.). At the Royal Museums of Fine Arts in Belgium (MRBAB), in the framework of the Com Corporate, a proposal for a media plan for May and/or September-October, consisting of the printing or collage of 25 advertisements of 4m2 vertical on the vehicles of the tram-bus network and 580 posters of 2m2 in the major national stations, the publishing of 200,000 postcards and 250,000 leaflets and their distribution in the various cultural (924) and tourist points (592), the organisation of a digital campaign and the realization of a one-minute corporate promotional video. Amendments to these drafts are, of course, possible. An extension to federal cultural institutions is not my responsibility but that of Mr. Reynders.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u50	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your accurate and complete answers. You also refer to a series of provisions which are rather directed towards a Belgian public, since they are spots broadcast in Belgian cinemas, on Belgian televisions, in the press, etc. In view of the arrangements made for foreign visitors, it is important to refocus this message towards our fellow citizens, who also pay for this national heritage. It is therefore necessary to refresh their memory in relation to a number of sites which can be visited and to attract a Flemish, Walloon or Brussels public to these different institutions, which are part of our national heritage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-17-54-commissie-ic420x.u51	That concludes our work for this morning!
