ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic368x.u1	I propose that we begin our committee meeting. I understand from the Minister that he should leave at 2:00 p.m. for the sake of the National Security Council. That's why we're getting started. The Minister will give a brief introduction. Mrs Wertelaers and Mr Van Wonterghem will then give a more technical presentation. They have also prepared a presentation on this subject. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic368x.u2	Mr President, I should like to apologize, but the National Security Council suddenly arrived after the events of last night and last night in Prince. By way of introduction, first of all, I would like to clarify something. Over the past few weeks, reports have been circulating that Target 1 and 2 would not withstand earthquakes. I would like to reassure the people who might be concerned by this report. As for everything else in the nuclear sector, there are currently strict standards in this area, which are dependent on the seismic hazard potential, i.e. the potential for a potentially dangerous effect of earthquakes. According to the Royal Observatory of Belgium, that chance is the lowest in Belgium in the north of East Flanders, which is exactly where the nuclear power station of Doel is located. Doel 1 and 2 are designed to withstand a reference earthquake of 0.058 g. According to the latest seismic studies, this corresponds, in the area where Doel is located, to an earthquake likely to occur once every ten thousand years. In this way, the two reactors comply with the legislation in force, namely the Royal Decree of 30 November 2011. Most of the structures, systems and components needed to ensure the safe shutdown of the plant have been designed with considerable safety margins. During the stress test, an earthquake with a magnitude greater than 6.5 on the Richter scale (or 0.17 g for those concerned) was proposed. According to the study, the power stations can be safely shut down in an earthquake of more than 6.5 on the Richter scale if some minor improvements are made. Those improvements were included in the stress test action plan. So it is certainly not the case that our nuclear power stations would not be able to cope with such an earthquake. As I have often said in the past, in the field of nuclear safety, we are not undermining or undermining our neighbouring countries. The FANC, together with its counterparts from all over Europe, is active in WENRA. This organisation is trying to align the regulations in the various European countries and to raise safety standards to an ever higher level. We have always followed this process in the past and will continue to follow it. Our regulations will not fall behind those of our neighbouring countries. The main principles of WENRA reference levels for 2014 are known, while guidance is being developed. These are important in determining the exact claims. The implications and investments required for Doel 1 and 2 are therefore not yet clear. The representatives of the FANC will now explain this to you in detail, with a PowerPoint presentation and everything you think is conceivable. I'd be happy to give them the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic368x.u3	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, my name is An Wertelaers. I'm Director of Facilities and Waste at the Federal Agency for Nuclear Control. I would like to explain to you today the resistance to earthquakes in our nuclear power stations Objectives 1 and 2 and the new WENRA standards in this area. With regard to the objective and overview of today's presentation, we would like to inform you about the earthquake risk in Belgium and about the seismic design of Objectives 1 and 2, initially, in the construction of the plant, but also its evolution, ten years later. Then I will say something about the ongoing earthquake improvement actions during the stress tests, and the ongoing improvement actions under the Long Term Operation or extension of the lifetime of Objectives 1 and 2. Then I'll explain the WENRA reference levels in terms of earthquake, and the FANC position in terms of the whole problem. On this slide you can see the historically recorded earthquakes in our country. The size of the dot shows the power of the earthquakes: the larger the dot, the more powerful the earthquake. You will immediately see that the entire area around the target site is earthquake-free. There has never been a major or significant earthquake. I'll try to keep my presentation as little technical as possible. However, there is a greatness I would like to explain to you, because it is used as a red line throughout the entire presentation, namely the peak ground acceleration (PGA). That's the maximum acceleration at ground level caused by an earthquake. That's pretty much the most important parameter that characterizes an earthquake. The PGA is usually expressed in g, the fall acceleration. A map of the Royal Observatory of Belgium shows the maximum peak ground acceleration expected to occur in our country once every 500 years. The map just shows the probability. As you can already see immediately, the black dot... is about the site of Doel... in the blue or cold area, which is almost earthquake-free. The Royal Observatory indicates that an earthquake can occur once every 500 years. The peak ground acceleration corresponding to this is less than 0.04g. Here you have an image of the site in Doel, for whom the site has not yet seen. The spherical buildings are the reactors of Objective 1 and Objective 2. I now turn to the seismic design of Objectives 1 and 2 in construction. In 1975 the site was considered earthquake-free. Therefore, the risk of earthquakes was not explicitly taken into account in the design. As Minister Jambon said, there is one important principle in the nuclear sector, namely the continuous improvement. Ten years after the start of the nuclear power stations Objectives 1 and 2 a process was imposed by the regulator, the ten-year revisions. During the first 10-year review in 1985, comparing existing installations with the most up-to-date standards, rules and practices at that time, it was said that an earthquake upgrade was needed, even if the risk of an earthquake on the site remains very small or almost nonexistent. A seismic investigation was carried out at the time. This meant that, on the basis of the historical data, the map I showed at the beginning looked at the worst earthquake that had already occurred in the neighborhood. It was pretended to have occurred on the site of Doel. The installations were then recalculated as a function of that earthquake with a PGA of 0,058g. In 1985 the installation was re-examined. From then on, it must resist an earthquake of 0.058g. The operator has worked on this and has had to make heavy infrastructure adjustments. Let me sum them up. There had to be a completely new building for emergency systems, as we call it, to ensure, among other things, safe stopping in the event of earthquakes with a force of 0.058g. So that was quite an investment. The decision that the new building should be built was taken in 1985. You can see on the slide that the building was operational in 1990. It takes time, of course, to realise such large infrastructure works. What happened in 1985? Strengthening many other existing structures and equipment against earthquakes with a force of 0.058g. We'll make a leap in time and go to the stress tests in 2011. As a result of the Fukushima disaster, we wanted to re-evaluate the safety margins of our existing nuclear installations and this, of course, in the light of the events in Fukushima. In Fukushima there were extreme natural events which undermine the safety functions of our installations and which can also lead to a serious nuclear accident. Of course, the scope included "that won't surprise anyone "natural events," such as earthquakes, floods and blackouts. The aim was to identify weaknesses in existing installations, draw lessons from them and implement possible improvement measures. What process was followed during the stress tests? That's actually always the same process. The specifications, i.e. the minimum requirements of the process, were laid down at European level. That's the first step. Each national security authority subsequently issued its own specifications. This has led to national action plans with improvement measures. These improvement measures had, of course, to be approved by each national security authority. Once the action plans had been approved by the authorities, they had to be implemented. Studies should then be started. Calculations must be made. There's a lot of engineering to be done. Finally, there is the execution of the works. That last phase obviously requires time. I have a concrete example of this. As a result of the stress tests, a wall was placed around the nuclear site in Tihange to protect the site from extreme external floods. On the slide you first see the site without a wall and on the image below the site with wall. The decision to build that wall was also made at the end of 2011 and that wall was finished a few months ago. So it takes time to implement the decisions. The stress test action plans are still ongoing. It is true that the disaster in Fukushima happened in 2011. I do not think anyone has counted in the whole process, but the final phase of implementation still takes time. This means that these stress test action plans are still ongoing in the countries around us. In some countries, they run until 2020 and in others even until 2025, before the decisions have been made. I have already said that the stress test is looking at earthquakes. I'm gonna explain that a little bit more. The first step taken for the sites of Doel and Tihange, as well as for other nuclear installations, is a re-evaluation of the earthquake spectrum. The Royal Observatory has done that again. That independent institute tried to re-evaluate the earthquake risk. This was done on the basis of the latest methodologies. For this purpose, a Probabilistic Seismic Hazard Assessment is used. That gives the following result. The level of earthquake in previous studies is not fundamentally questioned. An earthquake with a return period of one to ten thousand years is still an earthquake with a force below 0.1g for the site of Goed. Again, it is an earthquake with a force below 0.1g and it occurs less than once every ten thousand years. I think we can hardly imagine such a period. The first step was the re-evaluation of the real seismic risk on the Doel site and it was confirmed that it is low. The second step is an evaluation of the margins. How robust are the Objective 1 and 2 installations against an earthquake? For this purpose, a seismic margin review is used. This was carried out on the basis of an earthquake recorded on a PGA of 0.17g. We have that peak ground acceleration of 0.1g, which is not considered realistic for the Doel site. During the stress tests an earthquake was posted for the Doel site which is much higher, at 0.17g. What was the result of that? The reactors Objectives 1 and 2 can be safely and operationally stopped in the event of an earthquake of 0.17g, provided that some minor improvements have been made by Electrabel in the meantime. What is the conclusion for the stress tests on Objectives 1 and 2 and, of course, on the earthquake aspect, not wider than that? The real seismic risk on the Doel site is low, the power plant is robustly built and has many margins. The reactor buildings are resistant to an earthquake of 0.17g, so much more powerful than the potentially estimated earthquake on the site by the Royal Observatory. Some mechanical components had to be improved. That's what happened. These positive results are mainly due to the new building for emergency systems, which was built in 1985 and which I referred to earlier. This guarantees, among other things, a safe standstill in the event of earthquakes. Then we move on to the Long Term Operation of Target 1 and 2, the lifetime extension. Years ago, in 2008 and 2009, the FANC started developing an LTO strategy in parallel with the development of a strategy for a permanent cessation. This was done for the Tihange 1 nuclear power station and for the Objective 1 and 2 nuclear power stations. The intention of the FANC was to prepare themselves in good time and proactively for both cases, i.e. for both a permanent cessation and a LTO. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in 2008 and 2009 these new WENRA Safety Reference Levels obviously did not exist yet. That wasn't the case yet. In 2011-2012 we received an LTO file from the operator, Electrabel, in accordance with our expectations and minimum requirements. We analysed that file for Objective 1 and Objective 2, but also for Tihange 1. Of course, an analysis of the design was part of the file. An agreement was also reached between the safety regulator, the FANC, and the operator on an aggrieved design upgrade. Again, at that time in 2011-2012, the new WENRA reference levels did not exist yet. What did the aggregated design upgrade contain on a seismic level? On the one hand, the backup safety was increased; this concerns increasing reliability for the systems that can be used as backup for the existing safety systems. A second point is that the effects of the earthquake could be better dealt with by new actions and new measures, for example in the event of fires or leaks. What does that mean? A heavy earthquake in the installation, for example, could cause a fire in an electric cabinet. A major earthquake could also lead to the break-up of an important pipeline inside the installations, which could actually lead to an internal flooding. So all these issues have been analysed and measures have also been taken to address them and to better deal with them. An example of this, as you can see on the slide, is the construction of a new seismic resistant pumping station for the control of internal fires, which also improves the seismic resistance of the fire pipes. Then we will be in 2012 and the political decision, which is a double decision, is that Tihange 1 will have a lifetime extension and that Objective 1 and Objective 2 will have to be definitively closed in 2015. The FANC had prepared itself for the two scenarios. We have therefore changed our shoulder and started working on the scenario for closing Objective 1 and Objective 2 between 2012 and the two years after. However, in 2014, when the new government took office, there was a further extension of the lifetime of Objective 1 and Objective 2. The FANC reacted immediately by making a position paper public in which it clearly set out its position on the expectations for the Objective 1 LTO and Objective 2. The methodology that we then demanded from the operator was initially that Electrabel should present a global LTO action plan, in which the results from the LTO file, which the operator had already submitted in 2012, had to be taken over in full and which had to take into account ongoing projects, for example stress tests, periodic safety reviews and the action plans specific to the site, including inspections of the tubs. In the meantime, we also had the problem of hydrogen flakes in the tanks of Objective 3 and Tihange 2. We have also demanded that an inspection be carried out in the tanks of Objective 1 and Objective 2 in order to be able to continue in the future. Those were our requirements with regard to the operator. Electrabel then submitted a global LTO action plan to the FANC and on a seismic level Electrabel proposed a number of improvements. These are listed here: a new seismic pumping station for internal fires, the strengthening of earthquake resistance by installing a safety supply pump and the strengthening of important water reservoirs. Those improvement proposals were adopted by the FANC at the end of 2015. Then we come to the new WENRA reference levels, the new WENRA standards 2014. For introduction, WENRA stands for Western European Nuclear Regulators Association. So it is a group of security authorities in Europe. The aim is very clear, namely to develop a common approach, but also to harmonise safety rules in Europe. On the slide there is harmonisation in red and the aim is to set the bar equally high everywhere, to be strict for the nuclear sector but equally strict everywhere. This is done in concrete terms through those WENRA reference levels. There are for reactors, but there are also for other applications. That doesn't matter today. However, the WENRA reference levels are not legally binding, but there is the commitment of each security authority, and also of the FANC, to translate them into national rules. If we look at what the WENRA reference levels have already brought us in the past, we find that in 2006 there was a publication of reference levels for existing reactors. We have transposed these into Belgian regulations through a royal decree, so enforceable for our operator, at the end of 2011 with transitional periods running until 1 January 2016. Once again, because important works had to be done in response to these new standards and they take time. In September 2014 and following Fukushima, an update was made on the reference levels, focusing, of course, on external hazards, such as earthquakes and floods, but also on the management of serious accidents. In other words, an emergency plan. In April 2015, WENRA published a guidance document explaining and interpreting its new reference levels, including the 0.1g value. What needs to be done now is that we hope this will happen in 2016, but we do not know the date of publication yet, is the publication of a specific WENRA guide for earthquakes. At the moment it is still in consultation with WENRA. That's a first case. A second matter, it is not about details in that last publication, because the key question that needs to be asked is whether all safety devices should be seismically qualified, or only those relevant in the event of an earthquake, in order to achieve a safe standstill. In other words, it is a very important question and the answer to that question will determine whether the infrastructure works should be carried out on a limited scope of the installation, or whether improvements should be made for virtually the entire existing installation. So it's definitely not an innocent guide. For the sake of completeness, we have copied and slided from the WENRA reference levels the issues related to earthquakes for you. I won't read it. You can read it yourself. However, I am going to try to translate into human language what WENRA is actually demanding, and this is more specifically applied to Objectives 1 and 2. What do the requirements of WENRA mean specifically for Objectives 1 and 2? Actually, there are two requirements. On the one hand, WENRA requires that a safe stop of the reactor should be possible until a cold stop at least in the event of an earthquake with a force of 0.1g, regardless of the real seismic risk on the site. I would remind you that the real seismic risk on our site, as estimated by the Royal Observatory, is less than 0.1 g. That's a first demand. Secondly, WENRA requires adequate protection if we get a combination of two serious cases, one major earthquake and the other independent internal nuclear accident. I told you earlier that an internal earthquake could give rise to additional problems, such as a fire or a breach of a pipeline, leading to an internal flood. However, that is not what is meant here. This is a much more serious scenario. This means, for example, that at some point the cooling of the reactor is lost. That is what is called an internal independent nuclear accident. So the reactor loses its cooling and the plant has to be able to absorb it. So she's switching to other systems to deal with that incident, that serious incident. For example, after three weeks, a major earthquake occurs with a minimum value of 0.1g. Then the whole installation must still be able to cope with that and complete it safely. This is therefore a very serious requirement, especially for reactors such as Objectives 1 and 2, which were not provided for in the initial design. I would like to zoom in on the first requirement of WENRA: a safe stop from Target 1 and 2 to cold stop at a minimum earthquake of 0.1g. In fact, we at the FANC are quite optimistic in that respect. Why? Because this has already been reviewed during the stress test. I just explained that. During the stress test we were even stricter. We have tested this with an earthquake of 0.17g. We are therefore reasonably reassured. The result during the stress test was achieved with a so-called seismic margin review. That review takes place because specialists look at the plans and the calculations. An important aspect of that review is that earthquake specialists from a specialized American team go through the whole installation and give an expert judgment on how the installation behaves in an earthquake of 0.17g. This is a reassuring result from the stress test, but WENRA wants more. WENRA wants the robustness of the installations to be demonstrated through studies and calculations. WENRA asks for a seismic margin assessment in an earthquake of 0.1g. For that assessment, the focus is on studies and calculations. Everything must be demonstrated through studies and calculations, just as it is done with the design of a new installation. There's the difference. Electrabel has work to do, of course, because all these studies and calculations are still to be done. However, without prejudging the results, I believe that we can be reasonably optimistic. The second requirement of WENRA is that installations should also be protected against the combination of an earthquake and an independent heavy internal nuclear accident. I would remind you that this scenario is very unlikely and that the specific WENRA guidance document on earthquakes has yet to be finalised. At the moment there is still internal consultation at WENRA, which will decide what the final scope of that requirement will be. Should the requirement apply only to the harnesses which are switched on in order to achieve a safe standstill, or should it apply to all safety devices of the existing installation? That is, of course, the key question. That will also have an impact on the impact. That was the explanation about WENRA. I would now like to explain the position of the FANC. As regards the transposition into Belgian legislation of the WENRA standards, I have already mentioned that we first wish to see the finalisation of the WENRA guidance at European level, completely analogous to the stress test process, which I explained to you earlier. After that, the transposition into Belgian legislation will take place without delay, which also means that these requirements will be enforceable for our operator. The timing is the publication and the in force of the regulation at the end of 2017. This is in line with the WENRA commitment entered into by all the European security authorities, of course with a transitional period or with transitional periods in that Royal Decree, which will take into account the time required for heavy infrastructure adjustments. This will, of course, be done by adapting the existing Royal Decree with WENRA standards. Of course, the scope includes all the new WENRA reference levels and not just the reference levels that hit the earthquake theme. That's obvious. The new WENRA standards will also apply not only to Objectives 1 and 2, but to all existing reactors. In parallel, we will ask Electrabel for an action plan with corresponding implementation deadlines, which the FANC will or will not approve. As far as the implementation deadlines are concerned, I would point out that feasibility is an important factor. We must therefore take into account the necessary studies, the necessary permit procedures to be completed and also the necessary implementation and construction time. I am thinking here of the example of the wall in Tihange, which I gave earlier. We will follow a fully analogous process such as the stress test process, with time being an important factor. The stress test action plans are still ongoing. There will therefore be actions that will only be possible in several years' time. It is, of course, up to Electrabel to look at the economic feasibility of these actions and draw the necessary conclusions from them. The FANC shall be independent and shall not be responsible for drawing up the financial account. The general conclusion is that there was and still is a continuous improvement in the earthquake resistance of Objectives 1 and 2. The chance of an earthquake on the site of Doel is very small. The design in 1975 did not take into account the risk of an earthquake. Since 1985, at the first 10-year review, Objectives 1 and 2 have received a seismic design to withstand an earthquake of 0.058g through the additional building for emergency systems. More recent studies by the Royal Observatory still confirm that an earthquake with a return period of 1 in 10 000 years, i.e. an earthquake that could occur only once in 10 000 years, is less than 0.1g for the Goal site. The stress tests and existing LTO Action Plans provide for further seismic upgrades for Objectives 1 and 2. We know from the stress test that we can safely shut down Objectives 1 and 2 in the event of an earthquake of 0.17g. The new WENRA earthquake standard requires a minimum of 0.1g. The WENRA standard will be converted into binding regulations by a royal decree by the end of 2017, after finalisation of WENRA's guidance, with the necessary transitional period for its implementation. In parallel, Electrabel should submit to the FANC an action plan with realistic and feasible planning. The FANC will then adopt or not approve that action plan and will, of course, follow its implementation afterwards. I think I have come to the end of my presentation and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic368x.u4	Thank you for the explanation. Who is asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic368x.u5	Mr President, I would like to thank the people of the FANC for the very full presentation. It was necessary for us in this committee, as well as in other committees, to have a good understanding of what is meant precisely when it comes to the 0.1g, the peak ground acceleration. In other committees, all kinds of other matters are attributed to them, but that aside. If I see the graph of the earthquakes that have already occurred in the last hundreds of years, can you tell me what unit that is expressed in? You're talking about numbers between 6 and 8. I suppose this is not a peak ground acceleration, because then we have a serious problem. How can we compare this with 0.058g, 0.1g and 0.17g, the figures mentioned, so that we can put things in perspective? Is it true that the largest of these earthquakes, if it had taken place under the target power station, indeed corresponds to 0.058g or is it another number? I also understand that a safe standstill is possible up to 0.17g when it comes to Objectives 1 and 2. If we did the stress tests as they were carried out in 2011, would that number be put on that plant? At the moment there is 0.058g. Or does that mean that a number of other interventions, in addition to those carried out in the context of stress tests, have to be carried out in order to comply with them? This is also logical, because those conditions did not yet exist between the two conditions currently demanded by WENRA. You talk about meeting all safety harnesses or just those that have to do with achieving a safe standstill. Is it about the same safety devices that are mentioned in the second condition of WENRA or are they other safety devices? Can you give me an example? What exactly is that all about? We then know that the other power stations received a design earthquake of 0.17g. I certainly thought so for Tihange, but also for Objective 3 and Objective 4. I suppose they will meet the first condition of WENRA. Does that also apply to the second condition? Is the calculation method of the design of these plants at 0.17g and the calculation method used today through the assessment the same? I think it might be interesting to take that with you. Of course, we're not alone in the world. There are still several nuclear power plants in our neighbourhood, such as the Chooz and Borssele power stations. I thought it was said that in the stress test they could meet a design earthquake of 0.06g, which is similar to Objective 1 and Objective 2. Do you have any news on that? Do you know if any modifications have been made there? The same applies to the Gravelines power station, which is also very close to our border. Will you exchange data with your colleagues to find out what is going on in these nuclear power plants? Finally, this question may not be entirely within the scope, but it has been raised in the discussion. A few months ago we heard that the Dutch foundation Laka read through the stress test reports and found that these plants certainly do not belong to the 25% safest plants. At the same time, I have heard in several places that mistakes were made in that report because certain issues, such as redundancy, were not taken into account. Can you or one of your fellow specialists explain this a little more?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic368x.u6	Mr. Chair, I would like to thank the AFCN for this presentation, which sheds some light on us. Indeed, to be frank, we can see a change between what you explained here and your statement of March 8. If we consider only your conclusion, it is much more sophisticated than your March 8 press release, although I am well aware that you cannot present 32 slides in a press release. In addition, this conclusion is more cautious. But a monitoring agency must always be ready for things that it has evolved, especially in the eyes of international or European bodies. It seems obvious to me that you must always have this in mind. I will go back to the communication, the question of which has left us very perplexed and which, at times, has been almost hallucinating. On March 8, you said – and you repeated it here – that the new WENRA standards were known since September 24, 2014. You called back the calendar. You have reiterated that they are not binding – that is particular – but they will be binding in the future as they will be transposed into Belgian law for 2017, which I welcome. That's a fact. It's a fact. You knew that. You had that data in mind. Understand the perplexity of the members of the Economic Commission when it found that AFCN was unwilling to demand compliance with this new standard when the government requested the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 and especially when the law was passed. The government is asking. The law must then be passed. And finally, the operator must make it known that it extends the operation. All these steps have been taken. You indicate in your press release – this is what is very appealing – that "the LTO improvement of the design of Doel 1 and Doel 2 was focused on increasing the reliability of the systems, not on complying with a stricter standard of protection against the earthquake, such as, for example, a maximum acceleration of the ground of 0.1 g which was not yet definitively endorsed by WENRA at that time". You speak of 8 March, 24 September 2015, when the law on the extension of nuclear power was passed on 15 June. Indeed, they had already been endorsed. I understand that there are still technical issues that you need to discuss with WENRA. However, it is very special: you have known for more than ten months that new standards exist at European level, which you subscribe to. You can tell us that the risk of an earthquake is totally unlikely. Of course, I believe you. But in this case, stop subscribing to European standards! You can always say that seismic risks are greater in other European countries. AFCN, given the risk more or less zero, or reduced to an event every ten thousand years as the minister says, could have said that the standards were good for Italy and Spain, but not for Belgium. But you agree, you even say that you are going to transpose them into Belgian law. And when we vote on Doel 1's extension, you say you're not going to take it into account to give the authorisation, when you know that the plant will be condemned in 2017. I don't understand your timing, nor the sentences you wrote in your press release. The standards were known, but you didn't ask Electrabel unless you told us otherwise. I continue to quote your press release of 8 March: "A verification of the seismic resistance of Doel 1 and Doel 2 will have to be carried out on the basis of the new 0.1 g references. At present, we have no details on the scope and cost of the work to be considered." So you allowed the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 without knowing when and how Electrabel would meet the earthquake resistance standards as defined by WENRA. It seems to me totally hallucinating. It's only natural that we asked questions, unless you tell me that our questions were also amazing. So you understand our perplexity. I'm not making up anything; I'm reading your press release. I would like to return, for my questions, to your press release of 18 December 2014 and to the Belga dispatch that came out of it. At that time, the government decided to extend Doel 1 and Doel 2. I recall that the WENRA standards were known since they date from September. I would like to know whether Electrabel has incorporated the 0.1 g standards into its exploitation action plan until 2025. We have seen nothing of it, and that is why we ask you the question. Why didn't you integrate them yourself and give your consent to Electrabel without this integration? I was wondering if they integrated them. If they didn't integrate them, why did you give your permission without even mentioning these standards anywhere? That's because they came out in a paper. Will you ask Electrabel to meet the standards with the plan by 2017? I have heard that time is important and that it takes time. If they don't want to respect them (you said it was going to have a very high cost), what will be your attitude to Electrabel? In your press release of September 12, 2014, you said that if there is an operation of Doel 1 and Doel 2 (this is your title:Long-term operation of Doel 1 and Doel 2), the AFCN will set its conditions. So we wonder why she didn't put this as a condition from the start. You knew them. I quote page 1 of your press release: "The LTO Action Plan for Doel 1 and Doel 2. As expressed in the 2009 Strategic Note of the Safety Authority, a long-term operation involves upgrading the reactors concerned equivalent to the safest reactors in Belgium." I ask you today whether you are abandoning this sentence on safety equivalence with other reactors in Belgium and whether, indeed, this equivalence is contained in your requirements today. I'm talking about total equivalence. Is it contained in the list of works – not in view of the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2, since you have given your permission – what will Electrabel have to achieve?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic368x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the FANC, I would like to thank you very much for your explanation. I hope to be able to take the answers to my questions, but at 14:00 there is a finance committee and, as you know, the budgetary situation of this country deserves some attention. By the way, there are parallels between one file and the other. I regret that we have to have this session, because this is another dossier which gives the impression that safety standards are being negotiated, that international safety standards are being implemented, that our regulator is playing less short on the ball than we should expect and that the political interest in this domain is less than we could expect. Mr Jambon, you are physically present today, for which I am grateful, but I think that this is becoming more and more an easy way of referring to the FANC. Of course, the independence of the FANC must be respected, but a nuclear safety minister must do more than welcome the FANC to hearings. In other areas of your powers you are hyperpresent, in this domain your actions are characterized by incredible restraint. That surprises me, since it is also about the immediate safety of many compatriots. Ladies and gentlemen of the FANC, there is therefore the impression that safety standards are being negotiated and that they are being implemented. I'm declaring myself. Firstly, you outline a number of steps that still have to be taken, but I am surprised that even the study work by the operator has not yet been fully implemented. You make the distinction between the review and the assessment, and you say that the assessment will eventually have to take place. I'm surprised. You give the example of the wall of Tihange, which had to be built, which took some time. If we stick to this example, here are the studies for the construction of the wall not yet completed. The assessment has not yet been carried out, and the operator has not yet completed its preparations in this respect. This perpetuates and strengthens the impression, ladies and gentlemen of the FANC, that this is going to happen. The wall is not only not yet built, we are actually still in a much earlier phase. Secondly, I am surprised that LTO has been given the green light without taking the new WENRA provisions into account. I honestly don't understand. We are therefore making the exercise for extending the lifespan of Objectives 1 and 2, at WENRA level, but these new provisions are not part of the action plan; yet you are giving the green light for an action plan, which does not include those preparations, those new provisions. I'm surprised. It bothers me. Thirdly, you have explained very comprehensively today that the WENRA provisions were introduced in 2014. You say this is quite recent and it takes some time. However, when I do the exercise and consult documents from WENRA, I conclude that new provisions on earthquakes are based on recommendations from the International Atomic Energy Agency that date back to 2010. I'm literally reading "I'm happy to give you the quote," but I assume you know that in 2014 WENRA is based on safety guide SSG-9 of the International Atomic Energy Agency. Google that document and it is noted that this document and those recommendations of the International Atomic Energy Agency date back to 2010. If you say 2014 is quite recent and that you need time to implement it, while the initial recommendations at international level date back to 2010, then that confirms for me the idea that this is going to happen. Fourth element. We have been able to read and derive from documents from the FANC that the FANC is provisionally on hold, unless you correct me, to consider 2025 as a reasonable period of time to implement those new 2014 WENRA measures that actually date back to the International Atomic Energy Agency. This would mean that there are actually 15 years between those recommendations of the International Atomic Energy Agency and its implementation in Objectives 1 and 2. In any case, there are 11 years between the WENRA measures or recommendations and their implementation under Objectives 1 and 2. It will only be adapted to the new provisions at the time when the plants are expected to close. We do know that a date in a Belgian law on the core exit is very relative. Saying that Objectives 1 and 2 should not actually meet this requirement until 2025, that also hits me against the chest. The presentation is certainly enlightening on certain points, but in my view it does not solve a fundamental problem. In particular, it seems that security measures are being negotiated, and it seems that they are being taken into account. I hope I have sufficiently substantiated that. I'm looking forward to answers. If I cannot hear them orally, I will no doubt read them in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic368x.u8	Mr. Chairman, first of all, I would like to thank the representatives of the AFCN for their interesting and comprehensive projection. Nevertheless, I would have a few questions that I would like to see dealt with with with them and the minister. To rewrite the story, the September 2014 press release, whose title was "Long-term operation of Doel 1 and Doel 2: the AFCN will set its conditions". We are at the time of the formation of the new government and faced with a number of conditions. The reopening of Doel 1 and Doel 2 was already mentioned at the time. In my view, this communiqué lists a number of criteria for the government in formation that will need to be taken into account and draws their attention to certain points. As proof, point 3 of this communiqué, namely "Readaptation of the action plan on stress tests". That is indeed very clear. We are therefore part of this process and are thinking of reopening Doel 1 and Doel 2. Conditions will have to be laid down in relation to WENRA. As you said, Madam, in your slide 19 (WENRA 2014 reference level), they will be "non-binding, but "there is a commitment from each security authority to transpose them into national regulation". If they are non-binding, they will become so, since they will be transposed into national standards. The rules that will transpose this norm are not pious wishes. It's not a greeting card. These are rules that will be directly and universally binding. We're already talking about it in 2014. As long as we know that they will become binding, the discussions on the reopening of Doel 1 and Doel 2 do not include them directly, even if they are not yet set out in law or decree. I come back to point 3 of September 2014. Why not have these rules directly integrated when it comes to giving the authorisation to reopen Doel 1 and Doel 2? That was a first question. Secondly, why is the budget needed to carry out this work not included in the overall budget for the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2? We know that this will become binding and that it is not yet definitive. There's something that disturbs me in your slide number 30. You say that Electrabel is responsible for the economic feasibility of the assembly and that it should have the necessary consequences. I have the impression that by entering into this problem, Electrabel will not draw all the consequences now and that there will be additional burdens afterwards. I am therefore hesitant that this work has not been integrated and that a private operator will have to draw the necessary consequences, in particular on economic feasibility. This raises a question of consistency. Third, when incorporating the work required by the WENRA standards in 2017, is there an estimate of the cost? Figures have been made on these implementation costs and I would like to know whether AFCN has already estimated the sum for this type of work. Fourthly, you conclude your conclusions by saying that in parallel, Electrabel must submit an action plan and a realistic timetable for implementation to the AFCN. I find it difficult to hear this when I read the title of the AFCN press release of 2014: "Long-term exploitation of Doel 1 and Doel 2: the AFCN will set its conditions". But who sets the conditions and the timetable? What is a realistic calendar? I confess that I do not understand the consistency of the approach, since the AFCN says in 2014 that it will set its conditions. Here, the operator is asked for a timetable with a realistic action plan. But who is in this game? And how are we playing? Is AFCN really an independent agency that sets its terms and conditions, as was said in 2014? Or is it now a lighter version? I'm concerned about safety. That is why I would like to have a clear answer from you in this regard. I come back to the formation of the government in 2014. Is it not to be feared that an agreement has been reached on an Atoma notebook to recommend putting the pedal soft for the WENRA calendar? These standards were then known, but they were not specifically exposed. Fifthly, I would like to address what has provoked our last debates. Last week, AFCN's working documents indicated that Doel 1 and 2 plants would be upgraded to standards by 2025 at the latest. However, I have not heard of this date today. What about it? If there are any working documents, I suppose they have still been validated by one or the other, by a committee, by a person in charge. In the context of the transparency of our work, I would like to have these working papers that mention that the implementation of WENRA will be for 2025 and not before. Who sets the calendar, Electrabel or AFCN? During this committee, I discovered some contradictions between the communiqués on the latter's website and the slides that are being exposed today, as well as between the reality of the facts and the working documents. I would therefore like to try to make it clear. That is why I asked you five specific questions for which I would like five specific answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic368x.u9	Mr President, Madam, first of all, let me thank you and the minister for your presentation. I think it's important that we have this dialogue. But as I thank you, I must also regret the absence of Mr. Bens. He had already been asked to see him last week in committee; he was not there. Today, he's not here either. Even if I find that your report can be particularly useful to us, it is a little bit problematic because Mr Bens is the head, the boss; and because, in the end, and he has told us quite enough times here, it is he alone who decides on the basis of all the opinions of his collaborators, his assistants and technicians. I would like to remind him of some elements of what he said when he came to the subcommittee, to remind him of the culture of safety, the culture of security. Interesting slides had been seen on this component; they indicated that it was all the characteristics and attitudes that, in organizations and individuals, gave priority to the safety issues of power plants because of their importance. I would have wished to remind him of this, because seismic risk is precisely the one that is potentially the most dangerous, because it is also the one on which we have the least control; the one who, in view of its importance, deserves our full attention to look at what Mr Bens had presented to us at the time. On this seismic risk, like some of my colleagues, I will refer to what the Agency has published. It's dated the 7th of March, but I think it was published on the 8th of March. This is the Agency's release a few days before Fukushima's unfortunate birthday. You say, "Doel and Tihange nuclear power plants are now protected from earthquakes." This is the sentence at the bottom of point 1. Today, we see that there is still a lot of discussion to see if, in the eyes of WENRA, our power plants are protected from earthquakes. This lack of distance, it lacks nuance, and above all it is the reflection of a communication which is intended to be reassuring each time, when it is clear today that there are many problems. Five years ago, in Japan too, we thought that. It was thought that the power plants were protected against earthquakes. We could have taken exactly the same sentence on March 8, 2011, a few days before Fukushima, in the mouth of Japanese officials. There, too, we met seismic standards, and then the unthinkable arrived. Fukushima showed that the improbable was possible from this point of view. I was struck enough by the words of the homologue of Mr Bens, the President of the French Nuclear Safety Authority (ASN), Mr Chevet, in the newspaper Libération, which spoke on the occasion of Fukushima's birthday. The journalist asked him: "In the end, is the question not whether but when there will be a major accident in Europe?" Mr. Chevet replied: "Yes, there will be. One must imagine that an accident of the type Fukushima could occur in Europe. I don't know how to give the probability, and we're doing everything we can to prevent it from happening, but in spite of everything, we're laying down the principle that this can happen. In any case, it is necessary to start from this idea, if only to ask for safety improvements. We may have forgotten that Fukushima was only five years ago. It is a loss of collective memory, not just on the part of politicians and companies." It was therefore also aimed at the Authority itself. And then the journalist went on to say: "Is the Nuclear Safety Authority engaged in an arm of arms with EDF?" Mr. Chevet replied: "Yes, there is an iron base. But in an industrial system that has all these problems, tension has to come out somewhere. If the industrialists think it's too expensive, they'll get the consequences, and that won't happen." I really wish that, from time to time, we could hear that kind of talk from Mr Bens' mouth as well. That's what I wanted to tell him. You're here, ma'am. I am not speaking to you personally, but to the institution. Do not feel personally targeted by these words; it is to him that I would have liked to have been able to address them. The NSA is consistent when it says it has to apply WENRA. Our minister says we can be happy we're back in the last ten thousand years. I think you know, like me, the reference that the French have taken. He also explained it in the interview. It's twenty thousand years. They have decided to align themselves with very hard comments they have on companies, including EDF, and they say so: while the WENRA directives require that nuclear power plants be dimensioned for an earthquake that occurs every ten thousand years, the ASN will work over twenty thousand years. This is already a position which I consider to be, as far as I am concerned, very different from that which we meet, in any case in Mr Bens' head. I'd like that kind of speech, attitude and arm of arms to be found here. As my colleague from Lamotte said, we have the impression that you are asking Electrabel: "What can you do? Tell us a little, and then we'll put it in the norm." Consider the twenty thousand years and we will see what it will give on the side of Electrabel, rather than asking them how they see things. In this case, there are too many problems. Of course, I won't have time to talk to them all. We have other commissions to do it. But before I move on to my questions, I would like to point out the two most fundamental problems that I encounter at the turn of our discussions. First, I cannot accept that the WENRA recommendations were not taken into account by the Federal Agency in determining the work to be carried out for the extension of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 plants. Yet these directives were known to everyone, the regulator, you, the operator, the government. That was known since September 2014 and you, the Agency, gave the green light to the extension, while knowing that the seismic component was problematic, in any case in view of all the outstanding issues at this stage. Although, in the end, the decision for the extension belonged to the government – and it was well known that the will was that – the Agency bears a strong responsibility in this matter. Secondly, I cannot accept that you should consider not making this standard mandatory until 2025. I am surprised that I did not see any reference to 2025 in your document here in the Parliamentary Committee, whereas in the internal working documents of the Agency which did "run away", there is explicit reference to 2025. Why don't we talk about it here? It is as if we should not talk to parliamentarians about this assumption, which is your assumption of work. Or maybe you'll tell me it's a fake document that's been circulating, but I don't feel it. You will have the opportunity to clarify this later. In your discussions with Electrabel, you mention 2025, which is actually very reassuring for Electrabel because it is the day after the closing date. There is not a word about this today. You leave a question on the calendar, saying that it will take time and, unless I'm mistaken, 2025 has never been specified in your slides. This is a real problem of confidence in the dialogue that needs to be established. We know – fortunately we learned – that you are working on 2025. It is also for this reason that the problem is so acute and that the chairman has convened the committee. You don't mention it in the documents. You're saying it'll take time. Then tell us why 2025 appears in another document and why not here? Is that the long term? There is a lack of transparency vis-à-vis Parliament. Beyond that, I cannot imagine that you would make this mandatory after the closure of the plants. It's an unbearable cynicism. Just as if by chance the day after the power plants were closed. Like by chance! If one digs a little, this transitional period to reach the strict 0.1g pure and hard has been running for thirty years. The reference for a PGA of 0.1g has existed since 1985 at the international level, in American standards. You used it for Doel 3 and Doel 4. Finally, it was not you, but in any case the Institution - which was not the Federal Nuclear Control Agency since it did not yet exist at the time - those who were responsible for the same missions at the time. It must be noted that for Doel 1 and Doel 2, the seismic risk was neglected during the design. It was badly dealt with during the first 10-year review in 1985 since we stopped at 0.58, I believe, so in the middle of the ford. It was then forgotten in the subsequent 10-year revisions of 1995 and 2005, voluntarily or unintentionally. There is no longer any mention of reinforcement in this area, whereas the 0.1 g reference exists. The risk was also exempted as a result of stress tests: it was said that Doel 1 and Doel 2 would close and therefore it was not intended to impose the necessary work before. Today, some of the standards are being tried to apply, but they should have been applied before, in 2014 or 2015. If you compare the 2012 LTO to the 2015 LTO, the work you require on the Doel 1 and Doel 2 plants should have taken place before 2015, before the extension. Now, it's postponed to 2018-2019. Neglected in 1975, abused in 1985, forgotten in 1995 and 2005, exempted in 2011 and postponed in 2015 until 2025. It's a little hard for me to believe that this is all because of chance! I want to send the following message to the Agency: "Retry! Stop playing the Electrabel game! Stop playing the watch! Stop making this financial interest take precedence at the expense of security! Put yourself on the side of the citizens who have been waiting for thirty years to be properly protected!" In Fukushima, during the earthquake five years ago, the acceleration measured on the ground was 1g. What is required here is to be able to withstand an acceleration of 0.1g. The situation is obviously not the same as theirs, and fortunately! 0,1g is not asking for the moon! For thirty years, the seismic risk of Doel 1 and Doel 2 has been somewhat ignored. Not on other power plants, including Tihange, where the risk is greater but where the level reached is higher as well. I'm talking about Doel 1 and Doel 2 specifically. Now that this risk comes to light, is there not a need for a radical change in attitude and approach rather than trying to get the toothpaste into the tube? I simply ask you to return to your role and be that gendarme for the inhabitants of Antwerp, Liège and elsewhere in Belgium. Let me now turn to my specific questions. 1. Why is the work on the implementation of recommendation T.4.2 of WENRA not reflected in the tables of 700 million, while other post-Fukushima works, for which there is no legal obligation yet, are found in the same table? Why is there double standards? 2. What exchanges and other technical discussions has the Federal Agency already had with Electrabel regarding the WENRA recommendations and when did these exchanges take place? In other words, how many meetings have there been and when? 3. At what level have these exchanges taken place? Between engineers or at a higher level involving, for example, those responsible? 4. From when did the idea of transitional measures appear on the table? 5. On the occasion of these exchanges, what positions have Electrabel taken in the context of the procedures for transcription in Belgian law of this famous recommendation T4.2 combined with Recommendation T5.1? 6. Have these or any of these positions been the subject of a written document transmitted by Electrabel to the Federal Agency? If so, on what date? Indeed, we know that in parallel there were negotiations on the extension and that this ended on 30 November. It is not for nothing that I am asking you about the dates and in particular when Electrabel eventually submitted a document. 7. For its part, has the Federal Agency already provided Electrabel with its views on WENRA's new requirements or is it simply incorporating all the changes requested? 8. In the course of these exchanges and other technical discussions, has Electrabel asked to use the clause in footnote 80 to which you referred? If so, on the basis of what arguments did Electrabel use this clause? 9. Did Electrabel mention or mention the potentially unreasonable aspect of an implementation on the Doel 1 and Doel 2 power plants of a reference earthquake with a PGA of 0.1 g, thus a protection capable of resisting without any other consequence to a PGA of 0.1 g? Be aware that I use the words "potentially unreasonable" in connection with the Wenra guidelines that you know better than I do. 10. Basically, how much is an upgrade with a DBE reference earthquake with a PGA of 0.1 g? I'm not asking you to give me a figure to the nearest million euros. Can you tell me whether we are talking about tens or hundreds of millions of euros? 11. What do you think of the assumption that only in 2025 the implementation on Doel 1 and Doel 2 power plants of a reference earthquake with a PGA of 0.1 g is mandatory? Since you have not mentioned this point, I ask you the question more directly. What do you think? Is it credible or does it cause the Agency to lose credibility? 12. I'm entering the technical field, but it's important for the rest of the case. Will you accept, as an Agency, the ADM or SMR method as an alternative to a reference earthquake recovery, if work is not possible? 13. This question may be the most technical, but it requires, in my view, the most precise answer. What level of ELA do you require, as part of these discussions, on the transition phase and the alternative path to raising EBD? Will you be satisfied with 1.017 or would you prefer a higher level? 14. Can you give us the absolute guarantee that you will remain in the elastic field and that you will never accept to take into account the plastic properties - a formula that makes us enter the ductile zone by integrating the possibility of having permanent deformations irremediable? Thank you for your attention and for the answers you will give me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic368x.u10	I have two brief questions for clarification, Minister, and ladies and gentlemen of the FANC. Firstly, I have noted that Objective 1 and Objective 2 are capable of a ground acceleration of 0.058g. According to the new WENRA guidelines, a central response to an earthquake of 0.1g is required. Now I read in your conclusions that you point out that more recent studies confirm that an earthquake with a return period of about 10 000 years for the site Goal on the surface is less than 0.1g. If you write this, does that mean that the FANC thinks that these new WENRA directives, which refer to 0.1g, should not apply to Objective? Secondly, the investment plan for the ten-year extension set out actions to improve seismological resistance. The question is whether the actions you have imposed will be sufficient to achieve the desired resilience to an earthquake of 0.1g, or whether you will impose additional actions on the basis of that WENRA Directive.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic368x.u11	Mr President, I have not noted any specific questions addressed to me. It was more about technical questions for the FANC. As I announced at the beginning of the committee meeting, I have to attend a meeting of the National Security Council at 14:00. I assume that this discussion will not end with a technical discussion. I am always present on this committee when I am invited, Mr Calvo. I'm following this committee with a lot of attention. The debate will continue at political level in the Committee on the Interior. If you'll allow me, I'd like to leave for the National Security Council now. I am confident that the people of the FANC will give correct answers in the technical field.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic368x.u12	There are also political decisions to be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic368x.u13	I assume it's hard for you to listen, Mr Calvo. You'd rather talk yourself than listen. I have just said that the political debate can continue in this committee or in the Committee on the Interior, or wherever you wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic368x.u14	You have the floor, Mrs Wertelaers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic368x.u15	I will begin with a number of important matters and matters that I have heard come back several times. Then I will try to address more detailed and specific questions. A first important case, which apparently doesn't look so good to you, concerns the WENRA reference levels. According to you, they have been known for years and were committed in 2014. It was noted that the FANC has not yet used it and has not included it in the LTO. Unfortunately, I have to say that my attempt at explanation did not come across during my presentation. The WENRA reference levels were indeed published in 2014. There is a great deal in this, including requirements for the qualification and training of staff, the management system and emergency plans. There's a lot of demands in there. We are talking about 50 pages of demands. I have made a number of important demands in relation to séism here today. That is precisely what is still unclear at the level of WENRA. At the level of WENRA, as regards earthquakes, there is still a need to clearly define what is to be defined at European level. Once that is defined, the FANC will draft a proposal for a Royal Decree, which will transform it into Belgian regulations, making it enforceable to operators. We will. It's our job and our responsibility. That's what we do. Operators will then have to conform to this and their plants will then be allowed to continue operating. If it isn't, the power stations have to shut down. That's the work of the FANC. However, as long as the earthquakes are not decided on at European level, the FANC will not simply turn this into regulation. Some members have cited neighbouring countries as good examples. We have a great deal of respect for our neighbouring countries and for ASN as an authority, but also ASN has not yet transposed WENRA standards into regulation. There is not yet a single European country that has transposed these standards into regulation. I'd like to give you that. The standards were not yet in the LTO package at that time, because the latter was not yet clear. However, it is not a missed opportunity at all. In the nuclear sector, everything is evolutionary. That's what I've been trying to explain. The initial design of Objectives 1 and 2 did not take into account earthquakes, but from the first periodic safety review in 1985 an upgrade was enforced for earthquake hazards, whether relevant or not, and however low the likelihood of an earthquake. That was asked at the time. It was said that the periodic review in 1985 was a failed attempt or maltraité. The risk of earthquakes was Maltraité in 1985, was said here. I disagree. People have done what they had to do, although I personally was not there, and they have tried to estimate as best as possible what a possible earthquake was, even with a very small return period in Doel, and they have worked on it. That still counts, even for the FANC. I do not care that I am attacked as a person, but it is unacceptable to me that you attack the FANC. It was also quoted that the FANC may have to stop playing the operator's game. We don't play the operator's game. We are in a position that we are trying to make as clear as possible, but we must be able to enforce things. If the FANC has a certain idea, it cannot make it immediately enforceable vis-à-vis the operators. That is what we need regulation for. If that regulation is in place, we will enforce it. However, the rules must also be reasonable. If regulation requires heavy infrastructure works to be carried out, these infrastructure works must be made possible. Otherwise, the effect of any new regulation will be to close installations and not to upgrade them. I just wanted to map that out. There is a second case that several speakers have mentioned, the famous internal leak at the FANC, and the FANC's so-called statement that Objectives 1 and 2 must conform by 2025, coincidentally the date on which Objectives 1 and 2 must close. It's not like that. First of all, I would like to point out that I personally find it unacceptable for internal working documents to be deliberately leaked. We will try to find out who is behind this within the FANC and we will draw the necessary conclusions. What we are talking about here and what has been leaked here is a working document. The working document is withdrawn from the context, and I regret that. Moreover, it is apparently being instrumentalized to discredit the entire FANC. Apart from that, I would like to explain what this is about. It's about a presentation. There was an exchange between the Belgian authority, we, and the Dutch authority on séism, the problem of séism and the implementation of the new WENRA standard, which is not yet established and is not yet clear, with our Dutch fellow Members. It is quite obvious that during such exchanges an exchange of information takes place, that people exchange ideas and thoughts, that people try to discuss things to do proactively, to get ideas or sources of inspiration. But it is not a position of the FANC and it is certainly not an official position of the FANC. The only position the FANC has taken so far in this whole matter is the position I have tried to explain to you today. Let me repeat: WENRA must first be finalized. With regard to séism, the WENRA standards have not been finalised. We hope that this will happen in 2016 and then we will turn it into Belgian regulations, also with your cooperation, because in the end the Belgian regulations will have to be signed by the King. Once that's done, we're gonna force Electrabel to do it, and we always do. And then Electrabel has to comply with that regulation. If it complies, the Objective 1 and 2 plants will continue to operate. If it does not comply, Objectives 1 and 2 must cease when the transitional period is over. I will now try to answer the questions in more detail. There was a question about the unity on the map that we showed at the beginning. The heaviest earthquakes you can see, the red dots, correspond approximately to an earthquake of 6.5 on the Richter scale. That would be about 0.17g. Now that Objective 1 and Objective 2 have a seismic design of 0.058g, do any work still need to be done to meet 0.1g? The two demands of WENRA. Yes, of course there is still work to be done. With regard to the two requirements of WENRA, I might be able to give some explanation. The first requirement is the safe stop to stop the reactor at a minimum of 0.1g. I have already told you during my presentation that we are quite optimistic in this respect, because we already know from the stress tests from the people of the specialized earthquake team that they are convinced that the plant meets 0.17g. Surely that means that Electrabel will have to conform to that. Of course, we already have discussions with Electrabel. Since 2015, there have been discussions with Electrabel. We have a preliminary result on this point, but I say for the time being. This shows that the implementation of the studies required for the first WENRA requirement, and of the hardware measures that would follow later, are practically feasible within the timing of the global LTO Action Plan. That means finishing and implementing by 2019. The second requirement is that power stations should be able to cope with a combination of a major earthquake and a major internal nuclear accident. We have no information on that. That is actually also the thorny issue that remains to be decided at WENRA level. There we assume, also our internal experts... hence the 2025 in the slides, of the consultation with the Netherlands. However, we do not have any information on this. We do not know exactly what this will mean in terms of the necessary changes in the installations and we do not know anything about the realistic timing. We don't have any information on that. Again, the process takes place as follows: first the knot is cut at the level of WENRA. Once that has been done, we will look at it and then we will apply it without delay, convert it and also make it enforceable in relation to Electrabel. Questions were also asked about the sites of Chooz and Borssele, two plants located near our borders. We're interested in that. I can say that WENRA is also trying to map out what all countries are doing. WENRA also works as a kind of peer review. We are also going to look at the neighbours, and we are going to check whether the neighbours work sufficiently transparently to show what they are doing. I mean the neighbor's regulator, because it's unregulating. As I said earlier, no country has already transposed WENRA standards into national legislation. I cannot say anything about the practical implementation at the moment. WENRA's intention is to start this practical exercise, so to identify how each country will implement the WENRA standards, in which plants, what that means for those plants and in what time period those plants will then be compliant. It is not just about the problem of Objective 1, Objective 2 or old power stations. That second demand of WENRA, depending on its decision, can also have a huge impact on more recent plants, including in our country. Then we in our country will have to re-examine the second, very heavy demand of WENRA for our nuclear power stations, Tihange 1, Tihange 2 and Tihange 3. Other countries will also have to make that exercise. So we're not quite there yet. Other countries are not yet there either. That also explains why we did not include it in the LTO Action Plan. However, it is not because it is not in the LTO Action Plan that it is a lost cause. It's coming, it's coming, and we'll take care of it. There was also a question about the ranking that was made up. Are our power stations among the 25 percent safest in Western Europe? Well, we know that, for example, our Dutch fellow Members have made such an exercise, in my view, to convince their political world of the safe situation in Borssele. They have thus said that Borssele according to the ranking belongs to the 25% safest power stations in Western Europe. That is all very well and we are aware of it, but we are not participating in it. As a FANC, we take responsibility in our country and do the things we have to do. We don't deal with rankings like this. We do not believe that this is relevant or has added value for our country and for the safety of our nuclear plants and other nuclear installations. Minister's representative: I would like to clarify that there are errors in the document. It is not set up correctly and wrong assumptions were made. What the exact result is for Belgium and how many points we would get, I did not calculate, but the result would be much higher. At first glance, we already achieved the best 25%, just by taking out the big mistakes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic368x.u16	There were also a number of questions about costs, in particular whether it is possible to indicate an order of magnitude. I would like to come back to that again. We don't know the "what" yet. We ourselves do not yet know what impact this will have on the necessary infrastructure works. So we certainly cannot say anything about the costs yet. Moreover, that is not the competence of the FANC. So I am very sorry, but we cannot say anything about that. It is data that we do not have. As far as our position is concerned, it has also been suggested on several occasions that we are negotiating in these matters. What do we do, like other countries? ASN is also doing very well: they make their own position clear as a security authority. That's what the FANC is trying to do. We make our position clear to our operator. We are trying to explain what we want. Internally, we focus strongly on what we want and ensure that everyone's focus is on the same point. Then there's the question of timing. In doing so, we must take account of the realization. We must be reasonable about this. It is clear that there must be discussions with the operators. It's a little laughing about it, but I call that "consultations." There is no negotiation of what is to be done, because that is clear. The objectives are clearly set by the FANC, but as soon as those objectives are set and the operator has to start working, the timing has to be discussed. That's obvious. We cannot simply shake that from our ivory tower and say that it must be done by next year, that it can be taken or left. That's not gonna work. We're getting a proposal from Electrabel. Sometimes we accept it and sometimes we do not accept it. Then we say that it is not reasonable for us and that it must be possible to do so more quickly. I just wanted to say that about our position. There were also questions about discussions and taking up a position. The FANC is in a clear position. It is clear that this position is taken up by the Agency and not by an individual. We need our experts. They are good experts who are initially concerned about safety. That's the safety culture. Based on the input the FANC receives from the experts, it takes a position. It is that position that we ask operators not only to Electrabel, but also to the other nuclear operators in our country to carry out. At what level are discussions taking place? Obviously at all levels. There are discussions between the experts on the technical details and problems, and there are discussions at management level when it is necessary to decide what it will be, where the decisions will be taken. Mr Nollet has asked a number of questions and I propose that they be answered in writing and in more detail afterwards. With regard to footnote 80 from the WENRA standards, I can answer immediately. Would Electrabel be allowed to use them? Yes. The current WENRA standards allow different operators to use them. They must achieve only the objective that is demanded in it. They are therefore entitled to use it and do not have to justify it or argue it. This is fully in line with WENRA standards. Mr Vanvelthoven, you asked: if the real risk of an earthquake on the Doel site is less than 0.1g, does that mean that WENRA does not apply? No, regardless of the low, very low or non-existent seismic risk of a site, WENRA determines that as an initial concept of the nuclear power plant an earthquake was not taken into account, a minimum earthquake of 0.1g must be taken into account. The bar is therefore set at a minimum of 0.1g. Indeed, the LTO Action Plan includes actions related to an earthquake that will only increase and improve the resistance to an earthquake. That is a fact and that is a good thing. Will Objective 1 and Objective 2 thus meet the new requirements of WENRA? The answer is no. There is no doubt that further action will be needed. These actions will take place once the WENRA position is finalized, we will have the regulation and we will be able to enforce it from our operator.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic368x.u17	Mrs Wertelaers, did you answer all the questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic368x.u18	I can perhaps explain why Mr Jan Bens is not here today. Jan Bens is currently abroad. In this committee, however, I hope that I have convinced you of the position of the FANC. The FANC is a whole organization, more than one person, even though that might be a pity for Jan Bens. I'm here myself. I'm Director of Institutions and Garbage. I am therefore responsible, among other things, for nuclear power plants. Jan Bens has personally informed me that he fully supports the messages I have brought here today and behind the position that is being taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic368x.u19	That's obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic368x.u20	Please.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic368x.u21	Mrs Wertelaers, thank you for your answers. Does any of my fellow Members wish to replicate?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic368x.u22	First of all, thank you for the clarifications. I believe they were also necessary in a number of areas for a good understanding of what is actually going on and how we should interpret it. It is therefore not right that the whole world, or indeed the whole of Western Europe, has already transposed the new WENRA directive, promoted it and nailed it to the doors of nuclear power stations everywhere. A number of things still need to be cleared up so that we can get those upgrades and move forward. That is a very important first point. A second aspect is, of course, that it is a very technical debate. That happens more and more here on our committee. It's not easy. Even for those who have been working on this for years, it is not a simple matter. I believe that everyone should try to understand things as well as possible so that we know what we are talking about. We must also realise that the extension of Objectives 1 and 2, whether or not these new safety standards were included in the LTO report, is not a question of a missed opportunity. It is not the case that once that is over, we cannot impose new requirements. If that were the finality of an LTO report, I'd be completely against it. I believe that the FANC will, first and foremost, have to keep a constant eye on safety. If a committee of WENRA meets tomorrow, which imposes other requirements, if additional international provisions are agreed, then I believe that the FANC should be able to impose them, regardless of the fact that there is a lifetime extension. If not, a plant with a lifetime of 40 years would not go beyond those first years when the design was made. You can't do that. Finally, Mr President, I would like to address myself in particular to Mr Calvo...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We have seen the Minister responsible for nuclear safety here many times recently. I have looked up in the reports of all the hearings that I can find from the previous legislature how many times we have seen Mrs Milquet here. I don't remember. I am looking at my fellow Members to ask when they last saw this lady here when she was responsible for nuclear safety. I believe that the Minister is very much involved in this and that we can also acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic368x.u23	Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Wertelaers for her presentation and the answers she gave. Had the March 8 communiqué been clearer, many questions would have been avoided. With no answers to our questions, we asked for this meeting. [[I heard your demands.]] I hope they'll be constant. I imagine we will have the full record of this meeting, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, it will be important to be able to have this document in our work in another committee. I also hope that you will come back to us and communicate with us in full transparency when technical rules have been laid down at European level and you will explain the path, not only with regard to Doel 1 and Doel 2, but also with regard to all our nuclear power plants. Indeed, this is fundamental, especially if we are to avoid press debates. In such cases, transparency is absolutely necessary. I repeat that I hope that you will soon come back to us and give us the schedule for all nuclear power plants and that you will inform us about the costs that must be defined by the operator. I am pleased that the AFCN has now been able to flatten the way in which it sees safety with regard to Doel 1 and Doel 2. But this meeting was held at the request of the opposition. I can't help it if, under the previous legislature, the opposition did not ask to hear the Minister of the Interior and the AFCN. In my view, Parliament's role is in particular to ensure transparency when it comes to security, which must be ensured for all our citizens. I thank you, in any case, for the explanations you have given. But it is a case in continuity in terms of future requirements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic368x.u24	Mr President, I thank Mrs Wertelaers for the answers she has given. But it is necessary to re-establish the context here. Indeed, this is not an ordinary case. We are talking about the extension of two power plants. There is no question of creating something. There was something before; the government wants something after and the parliament adopted it in June 2015. Nevertheless, we cannot sweep certain things with a back of our hand. I think you've been a little bit quick in some of your answers about the cost. I hear what you are telling me, but I would like to know what types of investments will be required to comply with the WENRA requirements. This cost is important because it also depends on the economic feasibility of the operation, the rest and then the dismantling, etc. It seems too fast. This decision has an impact on the authorisation of the extension and also on the conventions. So things are not trivial. You have also been quick to confirm the end of the transitional period. When will this transitional period end? I don't know because you don't tell us. In the working papers that "run away", the reference is made to 2025. You make the comment you want, but so far, I see that no one has denied 2025. And if it's 2025 with an extension that starts now to get to WENRA standards, it's surreal and unacceptable. So I really expect the AFCN to propose to the government and the ministers, a royal order that draws the consequences on this standard, the transitional period, the costs, the time and the way. I remain with many unresolved issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic368x.u25	Madam, I want to ask you to come more often, in the sense that I appreciate the clarity of your remarks, even if I do not agree with you. I am not saying that I disagree on everything, but I will point out some elements on which I do not agree or for which I have not received an answer. I know that, in part, you asked for an opportunity to respond in writing. I don't have a problem with that. Sometimes answers to technical questions are given in writing and, as usual, the President will set a deadline. However, I do not believe that you have answered any key questions. I think you sent an important signal about the other nuclear power plants. Indeed, we have focused on Doel 1 and Doel 2, but you are right to say that among the things that are still outstanding in the discussions within WENRA, there may be important consequences for the other power plants. You did well to draw our attention to this. Now I come to an unsaid in our discussions: WENRA. It is not as if it were a body that would decide on its own and keep people waiting until it has made a decision. Because WENRA is you, in particular. So my question is what you, as a federal agency, are defending within WENRA. Okay, you're taking information from Electrabel. And you say you're waiting for WENRA's decision. But the link between the two is what the Belgian Federal Agency defends within WENRA. My questions remain valid with regard to the security requirement, which is reflected in the fourteen questions I have put to your colleague. What are you defending in WENRA about this transition period? Is that the date of 2025? You say that this document is a working document, which is not validated by the Federal Agency. I'd like to know who validated it. There is no discussion with the agency of a neighbouring country without a minimum of validation. It's not just an internal document, it's not a fake, it's a document that exists and takes over the 2025 date. And what is the position of the Belgian Agency within WENRA? I have the impression that there are two currents within WENRA: those linked to old power plants that are problematic in relation to certain requirements, and then the others, who actually want more security, and we can understand them. They say that older plants must be closed after the initial 40-year deadline. That's where I don't yet understand the position you're defending in WENRA. On the other hand, you say that you don't yet know what the discussions are about, so there is not yet a question of discussing ‘when'. Except that in your discussions with Electrabel, you are already discussing both ‘what' and ‘when'. In the working documents, the ‘when' corresponds to 2025. I want us parliamentarians to be forced to wait for the final and final decision. But these are matters of concern to us in the context of the extension. It is up to us – we are appointed for this – to pay more attention to these security issues. In Belgium's international defence, we must be stricter than that. I am therefore concerned about this matter, but I am not waiting for the decision to be taken. At that time, of course, you will have to impose it on Electrabel. But upstream, in construction, I want to know what the Belgian Agency stands for in WENRA. I have no problem with her taking information, but I have a problem when you say, "Our demands will have to be made economically and realistically possible." I may have misrecorded, but could you explain these elements? Because I don't agree with that. Why? I do not agree on behalf of the alternatives which exist and which are more secure. These are, of course, other forms of energy than nuclear energy, but they do not enjoy such latitude. I see the requirements for wind turbines and the fact that no derogation is possible and I compare them to the possible scope for discussion and the time frame for compliance on this file, and I find this totally disproportionate. I therefore note that there is a problem of principle when you incorporate the difficulty, economic or technical, into arbitration, although I am not of course aware of what an economic difficulty was. You're saying they'll need some time. No, I don't! And if they're not ready, it's over! Alternatives exist! That is where we have a profound divergence, not only on the question of the timetable but also on what you agree to take into account. This concerns the entire footnote as well as words such as "reasonably". Even if it is not necessarily negative, this is where we perceive the tension inside WENRA between different regulators. I may sometimes use a bad term when I speak of the Federal Agency as a regulator. Sometimes he's a policeman. The regulator is actually the CREG. You had this discussion with Electrabel but what are their positions on the calendar? They must have answered you about it. And on this subject, we do not get an answer. I hope that these answers will come to us in writing because they are part of the list of 14 questions that I asked. The president will set a deadline, but I would like to have a written answer to these 14 questions. There are technical dimensions but others are not technical at all. Will this be done on millions, tens of millions or hundreds of millions? I don't think it's complicated to tell us that. You're already talking to Electrabel. If some of the participants in the discussions speak of 2025, it is because elements of the order of millions, tens or hundreds of millions have arrived on the table. In this regard, we are not informed of anything when it is fundamental, including for competition. Any decision to facilitate the extension of nuclear power plants is "reviewed" by Europe, and competitors, in terms of state aid. I am not going to go into the details of this, but that is why it is important that you do not adopt a position where what is possible is made possible. It must be said no because the level of safety cannot be achieved with these plants, whereas alternatives exist. There is a wider stake in the energy market. What position do you stand for? Can we have a written answer to the questions that I have put to you and for which we have not had an answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic368x.u26	I suggest that you also pass the questions on to the people of the FANC.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic368x.u27	I have one more question. You said that the specific WENRA guidance is still in full discussion and that it needs to be decided somewhere in 2016. You questioned that in the presentation. Have you got eyes on that yet? Has WENRA prepared a timetable for herself when it intends to land with it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic368x.u28	There's not really a fixed timetable drawn up and communicated. We hope and think that it will be in the summer of 2016 at the earliest, somewhere in June. They must also meet, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic368x.u29	Thank you for the explanation. Would you like to reply to Mr Nollet's last comment?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic368x.u30	I would now like to have an answer about the position you are defending. The others, I'll have them in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic368x.u31	I'll try. You have the impression that there are two movements, including in the case of WENRA, namely those who stick to the old power stations and those who are more defending modern power stations. I can fully follow you, but I fear that this is a bit slipping into the political debate on extension of life or final closure. For the FANC, as an independent security authority, it is a definite fact that in a political decision to move an old power station forward, that old power station should not completely aging. That is the continuous improvement that is required in the nuclear domain, and I hope you have understood that this has also happened for Objective 1 and Objective 2, including for earthquakes. There has been an evolution over the life span of those two plants. As far as the resistance to earthquakes is concerned, it has only improved. The safety regulator must ensure that, if these older plants continue to operate, they also comply with new and evolving requirements. With regard to WENRA and timing, WENRA does not express its views on timing. There, too, no ideas are being launched on the deadline for implementing this. What will happen at WENRA, but I explained that to you and that to the future, is that they will make some kind of exercise. They will try to identify when which country has implemented something, in which power stations. You also mentioned that I would have talked about realistic transitional periods. That's right. I have clearly spoken about this. What I meant by that is, of course, realistic in terms of technically feasible, technically feasible and feasible. That's what I meant. I did not quote economically feasible. I didn't mean to quote that from the FANC. It is not up to the FANC to decide. It is up to the operator to decide. An operator must follow the ever evolving requirements imposed on him and then it is up to the operator to decide whether or not those requirements are economically feasible for him or her. On that basis, the operator may itself say that he is quitting. This is currently happening at the Mühleberg nuclear power station in Switzerland. Mühleberg is about the same age as Doel 1 and Doel 2, and Mühleberg throws the towel in the ring. They no longer conform to the new requirements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic368x.u32	Mr President, I am still hungry about the positions that the Belgian Agency stands for in WENRA. I hear the principled answer about where we are and how we are working, but I do not see clearly what you are defending or what content is in relation to the requirements. I do not see any clarity on how to translate this recommendation, T.4.2, or on the timetable you are defending. We will not go any further today, but I would ask you to add these questions to the list of 14 questions already in your possession. Mr President, I turn to you so that we can receive the answers within a reasonable time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic368x.u33	Mrs Wertelaers, how much time do you think you need to be able to answer Mr Nollet's questions in writing?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic368x.u34	Two weeks, in your opinion, is that realistic and reasonable?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic368x.u35	Very good. We expect your answers. I thank all those present for their presence, for their questions and, above all, for the answers.
