ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 13 April 2016, I propose: 1) to be entered on the agenda of tomorrow afternoon's plenary session: - the draft law on supplementary measures to combat terrorism, Nos 1727/1 to 4; - the bill (Mrs Sonja Becq and Mr Raf Terwingen and Mr Servais Verherstraeten) supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure with regard to the telephone tap in arms trade, Nos 117/1 to 4; - the bill (Mrs Hans Bonte and Mr Alain Top) amending the Code of Criminal Procedure on measures to promote the fight against illicit arms trafficking, No. 1362/1; - the legislative proposal (Mr Olivier Maingain and Mrs Véronique Caprasse) amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Law of 8 June 2006 regulating economic and individual activities with weapons, No. 1463/1; - the bill (Mr Hans Bonte) amending the law of 5 August 1992 on police officers with regard to a final flow of information on foreign terrorist fighters, No. 1711/1; - the value of all Mr Peter De Roover, Mrs Laurette Onkelinx, Mr Denis Ducarme, Mr Servais Verherstraeten and Mr Patrick Dewael, Ms Meryame Kitrir, Mr Jean-Marc Nollet and Mr Kristof Calvo and Mrs Catherine Fonck) to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the circumstances that led to the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016 at Brussels National Airport and at Maalbeek Metro Station in Brussels, including the evolution and approach of the fight against radicalism and terrorist threat, No. 1752/1; - the proposal (Mrs Barbara Pas and Mr Filip Dewinter and Mr Jan Penris) to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to investigate the Molenbeek terrorist cell which committed a series of terrorist attacks in Paris, Nos 1626/1 to 3; 2) the examination of the report of the Special Committee responsible for the follow-up of the file "Dieselgate', Nos 1720/1 and 2, to be postponed to Thursday 21 April 2016. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 13 April 2016, I propose: 1. to include in the agenda of tomorrow's plenary session: - the draft law on additional measures to combat terrorism, Nos. 1727/1 to 4; - the bill (Ms. Sonja Becq and MM. Raf Terwingen and Servais Verherstraeten) supplementing the Code of Criminal Investigation with regard to wiretapping in the event of arms trafficking, Nos. 117/1 to 4; - the bill (MM. Hans Bonte and Alain Top) amending the Code of Criminal Investigation with a view to promoting the fight against arms trafficking, No. 1362/1; - the bill (Mr. Olivier Maingain and Ms. Véronique Caprasse) amending the Act of 8 June 2006 regulating economic and individual activities with weapons and the Code of Criminal Investigation, No. 1463/1; - the draft law (Mr Hans Bonte) amending the law of 5 August 1992 on the police function with a view to enabling the effective transmission of data on foreign terrorist fighters, No. 1711/1; - the proposal (Mr Peter De Roover, Ms Laurette Onkelinx, MM. Denis Ducrame, Servais Verherstraeten and Patrick Dewael, Ms Meryame Kitir, MM. Jean-Marc Nollet and Kristof Calvo and Catherine Fonck) to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to examine the circumstances that led to the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016 at Brussels-National Airport and Maelbeek Metro Station in Brussels, including the evolution and management of the fight against radicalism and the terrorist threat, No. 1752/1; - the proposal (Ms Barbara Pas and MM. Filip Dewinter and Jan Penris) to set up a parliamentary commission of inquiry to investigate the Molenbeek terrorist cell which carried out a series of attacks in Paris, Nos. 1626/1 to 3; 2) to postpone the discussion of the report of the special commission responsible for the follow-up of the case "Dieselgate", Nos. 1720/1 and 2, until Thursday, 21 April 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u3	Following the terrorist attacks on Tuesday 22 March 2016, the National Assembly of the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire expressed my condolences. On the occasion of the terrorist attacks on Tuesday, 22 March 2016, I received a message of support and condolences from the National Assembly of the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u4	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Benoit Hellings, Stefaan Van Hecke, Jean-Marc Nollet, Kristof Calvo, Gilles Vanden Burre, Meyrem Almaci, Muriel Gerkens, Evita Willaert, Georges Gilkinet, Wouter De Vriendt.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u5	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u6	Mr President, Mr Yüksel refers to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u7	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although this draft law may ignore many, we should not underestimate its economic and democratic importance. The design is the result of a nice collaboration between Minister Alexander De Croo, Secretary of State Theo Francken and Secretary of State Bart Tommelein. It is not just an international trend, it is also a paradigm shift in this country. Let me illustrate this with an example from the past. Opening up data has long been a sensitive issue. Many administrations consider their data to be their property. They guard them like a chicken's eggs. However, the data can do a lot of business. In 2010 I raised the subject for the first time in Parliament, with a question addressed to then Minister Vincent Van Quickenborne. He responded very enthusiastically and took the initiative to launch a portal website. At that time, there was cooperation with the Flemish level. Flanders then proposed the first draft paper for structural open data policy. That was the first asymmetric cooperation and actually confederalism avant la lettre. Flanders started for the first time with a structural policy to open up data, let people work with it and also create economic added value. Opening up data was not only to be done nationally, but also locally. I also took the initiative there, through Helga Stevens, she was then the only N-VA municipality council member, because N-VA was still a very small party to ask a question in the city council in Ghent. The reaction back then was a little weird. The Ghent ship college found it obvious to open data to others, but it could not allow the data to be commercially reused and companies to profit from the data owned by the government. 'Cause companies that make profits are the devil. That was the reasoning of the Ghent ship college, which consisted of socialists and liberals. In Ghent they are more or less the same. Fortunately, such a reaction is no longer possible today. That's turned around.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u9	Mr Dedecker has really invited me to reply, Mr President. Mr Dedecker was not in the city council then and certainly not in the college. I was in the city council then, and I think I'm still in college. Mr Dedecker, it has never been said that companies that would make profits are the devil. On the contrary, Ghent is an example of cooperation between private and government when it comes to development. The Work site, the development of the old docks, the collaboration with sogent, everything goes in collaboration with the private. Many other public services and certainly other cities can take an example. You say that a company that makes a profit is the devil's. I would put that phrase a little differently. Moreover, as far as the data itself is concerned, it is a bit strange, but you are always in favour of using taxpayers' money properly. There it was the opinion of the government, of the city services, that they had collected data with tax money. Is it true, then, that we pass these data on to one company without charging for it? After all, it was collected by city services, i.e. with public money. You're a bit on bottles by saying that the city of Ghent was completely against that then and that it was mainly the government versus the private one. I'd be a little more nuanced about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u10	I'd look at what ships Tapmaz said back then. He said we can't make a profit with our data. You're gonna go into that part of it, though. We see, fortunately, that it has turned. We took the initiative at that time. Together with people from the open data community, we have gathered a number of enthusiastic officials within the Ghent administration. They helped bring about a change in policy and together created Apps For Ghent. That was a very good thing. It was a success story. Today, it's a paragon. It was a turning point. Today that has become a nice piece of Ghent's policy. I'll make it a compliment, Mrs. Temmerman. We see that the initiative is also being followed in other cities. That is a very good thing. Eventually, the federal level also jumps into the cart. What can one do with it? The possibilities are endless. If governments open up their data in such a way that they are automatically workable, then they can do very interesting things, for example data analysis. One can carry out scientific research on it. It's not just scientists who can do their thing with it. I'm also thinking of investigative journalists. They have also recently presented impressive results, but the dates that are being opened here obviously do not contain personal data. It is not about privacy-sensitive data, but of course also very good analyses can be carried out. It also benefits the public authorities: it is an incentive to work more efficiently, to analyse their own data and to keep track of them in a structural way. The added value, however, is mainly economic: Agoria, the technology federation, raises an amount of 900 million euros as an added value that can be realised if the government opens its data. That is also where the difference is made in the present draft law: we explicitly encourage companies to make profits with this data, in order to create economic added value. The aim is therefore to create an added value by combining and reusing data. Think of the innovative parking apps that can be used on a smartphone. They indicate the free spaces in the various parkings and thus offer an added value for the motorist. We must realise this added value and make full use of it. I am also thinking of SNCB's dates, which will finally be opened up. The sp.a voted against a resolution on this at the time for inexplicable reasons. I was sorry to do so, but I am glad that we can now take a step forward and that we will lower the threshold for re-use, with standard licences. Yes, we support this bill and the fact that companies are profiting from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u11	Mr Yüksel, you are registered as a speaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u12	Mr President, the report has just been referred to.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u13	Mr Lanjri did so on your behalf.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u14	Mr President, I was not present because I was prevented from attending a committee. I would nevertheless like to take this opportunity to address you. Of course, it is a good thing that information is made available to citizens and businesses. This House, too, has a wealth of information. It would be good, Minister, if information produced by this House could be consulted by the public in a smooth and accessible manner. It is often not obvious to look up reports and questions, or to find out how Members voted. It would be good to open up the cards and open up the data. I appeal to your services to make that possible, in the spirit of this draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u15	The services of the Chamber are working on this at full speed, Mr Yüksel.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u16	We do not have oil in our country and coal mines have been closed for some time. However, we have data in abundance. Data is the raw material of the knowledge economy. It is therefore extremely important that the data available to the public authorities, and there are a lot of them, can be made available as much as possible. With this raw material, creative entrepreneurs can work to find solutions to issues that we sometimes cannot imagine or to come up with applications that may still sound like distant future music, but which can determine daily life tomorrow. For example, it is possible to find out whether a train is delayed or not. Of course, and my group wishes to emphasise this, the protection of privacy is a very important issue. This draft transposes Directive 2013/36/EU into Belgian law, but goes even further. Although the Directive does not require this, it is chosen to include autonomous public undertakings and the National Lottery within its scope. I would like to ask the Minister a number of questions about this. How far does the application extend to these legal entities? What are the limits? What happens to the information that is of commercial interest to these companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u17	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a brief statement that the digital environment and, more specifically, the data environment represent one of the greatest challenges of the future. Many experts, Ms. Ljinen recalled, compare the data with the oil of the twenty-first century. There are many socio-economic opportunities arising from data reuse. Many startups and developers are demanding this open data policy in order to develop innovative solutions that facilitate the daily lives of citizens. I will not go back to the figures that Mr Dedecker gave, particularly in the Agoria studies, about EUR 900 million in economic benefits per year, which is considerable. I would also like to recall that the citizen will win in his relations with the State. The openness of public services is clearly an important step forward in modernising and reducing the burden on public administrations. This openness will allow for better citizen participation, which will take part in the societal debate on the basis of better information that they can use to better analyse political choices, to make statements or to examine facts. It is therefore important to recall that several benchmarks are provided for in this transposition and in this bill, particularly with regard to the protection of privacy and security issues. This open data strategy obviously leads to innovation, economic growth, transparency and participation. It is therefore clear that the MR Group supports this bill to make public services closer to citizens. The MR is pleased that the government and Deputy Prime Minister Alexander De Croo are working energetically to ensure that Belgium continues its efforts to develop a digital economy and a powerful and modern digital society.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u18	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you for the broad support for this draft law. As you know, this is the transposition of a European directive, in which we actually say that the rule is:open by default. In principle, all data can be requested, preferably in as easy a way as possible, so that they can be managed machineically. There are a few exceptions concerning the protection of privacy or the protection of security. What is the cost of the data? In principle, the data is made available free of charge. Only marginal costs of posting can be claimed. Only public authorities that have to obtain income from the provision of their documents, as well as libraries, archives and museums, should apply for higher rates. Special attention is paid to the protection of privacy. In principle, documents containing personal data are not eligible for open data unless they are made completely anonymous. We have also provided for specific measures to ensure maximum protection of personal data. An open data committee will be set up within the Privacy Committee. There are also minimum conditions for reuse. Public authorities may make data available, either unconditionally or by conditioning their re-use, for example by requiring a reference to the source or a pricing. These re-use conditions are set out in the licences. These licences and the cases in which they are to be used will be defined in a Royal Order, so as not to impose unnecessary restrictions. I come to Mrs Lijnen's question about the National Lottery. The National Lottery and the Autonomous Public Enterprises will henceforth also be covered by the concept of government debt, and in particular by the category of legal persons governed by public law who depend on the federal State, as referred to in Article 2, 1°, b). These legal entities fall within the scope of application to the extent to which they are considered to be public authorities and thus to carry out their public service tasks. These are the tasks which the legal person assumes for the performance of its public service tasks laid down in the management contract. For example, in the case of SNCB, the provision of information on delays is considered to be a public service task. So these are data that have to be shared. Furthermore, the draft only covers administrative documents, as included in public access legislation. Article 3 (2) of the draft clarifies that certain administrative documents or parts of administrative documents are excluded from the scope of the law and are therefore not eligible for re-use. The main exclusion applies to administrative documents that cannot be disclosed under public access rules, for example because they are commercial information, professional secrecy, business secrecy or business secrecy. It is deliberately chosen not to include the exceptions to the public access rules, including the commercial nature of information, in the law itself, but to refer to existing government regulations. This should ensure that the specific conditions on which the exceptions can be invoked are maintained and that the wording of the exceptions in this law would not deviate from those in the public access rules. Commercially sensitive information in the possession of autonomous public companies, such as the National Lottery, is clearly outside the scope of this design. This information is often crucial for the development of innovation, research and others. It is therefore not intended to restrict these legal entities in their ability to compete with other national and international players. The general idea that the data is not owned by the government, that they are actually owned by the population, and that it is therefore the logic itself that everyone has the right to request this data and use it for their own use, hobby projects or commercial projects, is reflected in this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u19	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u20	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1619/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1619/3) The draft law has 24 articles. The bill has 24 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u21	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u22	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Dumery, rapporteur, referred to her written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u23	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1649/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1649/3) The draft law contains 8 articles. The bill has 8 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u24	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u25	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u26	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief because I think the reports are quite complete. As far as the first reading is concerned, since I am only rapporteur for the first part of our debate, we have met four times. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for accepting the principle of holding hearings at the first meeting on 22 January. I think that some people were willing to vote in a matter of minutes on this text, which deals with privacy and fundamental elements of law. By their content, the hearings showed their importance and interest. They allowed the debate to be moderated and questions asked. They also allowed the majority to amend the text. The majority have completed this text but in a very partial way. For the rest, on the basis of this, everyone was able to express their positions. There were many questions but not always complete answers which led us to ask for a second reading. But I am not the rapporteur of this part. Mr. President, I don't want to be any longer. As regards the content of the hearings and the exchanges with the Secretary of State, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u27	Mr Secretary of State, I had already informed you in committee that we support your draft law, not least because an ambition written down in the coalition agreement is being fulfilled. It says literally that data mining and the crossing of data between inspection services, social security institutions, the tax administration, the crossroads bank and third parties are essential in order to avoid the duplication of social benefits or the improper use of accumulations, wages and benefits. Also in your policy paper of December 2015, you clearly state that the fight against benefit and residence fraud will continue to be one of your priorities in 2016. You mention that the detection of this type of fraud will be done using techniques such as data mining and data matching. In your policy paper, you refer to the initiative to set up a pilot project in collaboration with the RVA this year. Earlier, in August 2015, you had already taken the initiative to allow RVA auditors to check the compliance of files on the basis of unannounced home visits, although this remains an exception procedure, as you yourself have pointed out. This draft law will create a legal framework whereby an annual deviation of 80% or more versus normal use is passed on to the Crossroads Bank of Social Security. In this way, the Programme Act of 29 March 2012 will be amended. Things will be reversed from now on. The utilities and distribution system operators will systematically forward the different data to the Crossroads Bank of Social Security, while in the past this was not the case. Those dates are an indication that the actual family situation may be different from the situation transmitted, so that the appropriate action can be taken. In addition, this can provide important information to expose hidden poverty and other distressing situations, to turn hands on the team and to help people in poverty. As I said, we consider this draft law to be a useful initiative. Tracking benefit fraud through data mining is a useful tool, which already exists abroad. However, we must remain critical. This is not a miracle solution. We can expect more in the fight against benefit fraud. If we really want to win this battle, we need to move towards a truly transparent social security system. The structures and processes of social security need to be simplified as a matter of urgency. Due to the complexity of the structures, such as different public social security institutions which do not always work together well, different separate payout institutions and numerous social inspection services that work separately, all this needs to be simplified. The legislation governing social benefits is complex and not always aligned. They work with different limits and they use different definitions. That's not ideal. More simplicity in structures, processes and laws is the best recipe to prevent social fraud and administrative errors. I come to my conclusion. This draft law is a positive step in the right direction and a step in the global approach to combating social fraud. You have indicated that we are starting this test-wise and that you are willing to adjust or optimize it where necessary. This should give rise to even more and better legislative work in order to effectively achieve simplified and transparent structures, processes and models. Mr Secretary of State, if that is your ambition, then we remain your partner.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u28	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, you know that I will not go in the same direction as the previous speaker. I think that we have had discussions on this project that have analysed things in depth – as I said – in particular by analysing the opinion of the Council of State, the two documents transmitted by the Commission for the Protection of Privacy and the opinion of the National Labour Council. To go quite contrary to the previous speaker, I would say, Mr. Secretary of State, that if I were to describe your bill by three words, I would use the words: disproportionate, unrealistic and ineffective. In the course of committee work, we have demonstrated how this project is disproportionate, unrealistic and ineffective. Finally, we are going to interfere in the privacy of all Belgians, allowing the government to analyse energy consumption data – which will therefore affect 11 million people – in order, the government hopes, to unearth some additional fictitious housing. There is a formula that has been used by the representative of the Federation of Social Services. He said, "We use a bazooka to hunt a fly." I think that formula is fair enough. This was supported by similar work by a social housing company in Charleroi, La Sambrienne. We gave the figures for La Sambrienne. In this datamining exercise, they reached a result of 0.013% of the fraud difficulty among the persons involved in this survey. We believe that getting involved in the privacy of our fellow citizens for a result close to zero is totally disproportionate. This project has been criticized by the Council of State and the Privacy Commission. In the latter case, it is more serious because the Privacy Commission is asking questions and putting conditions, but if they are not met – I think that will be the case – in the event of an appeal, this text may be rejected by the Constitutional Court. The discussion also focused on the difficulty of establishing standard consumption standards. Many experts came to say that it was impossible to do so and, from there, to perceive the discrepancies. We know that the energy consumption of a household is very dependent on many factors such as the insulation of the building, the condition and size of the housing, the household equipment present or not, the habits of consumption, the fact of heating up to electricity or other sources of energy... On the other hand, the social beneficiaries, we also know, are often tenants of poorly insulated, poorly equipped and therefore very energy-intensive housing. It is therefore not uncommon for their consumption to exceed the theoretical average established. Conversely, due to the increasing cost of energy, some are in a serious situation of energy deprivation. This was also discussed, in particular, when we referred to the measures taken by our Government, such as the increase in VAT on electricity or the taxation of intercommunals, which are not going to improve the situation. The question therefore arises whether, in our country, there are no means of monitoring the situation of the homes of the social beneficiaries. However, there are devices that work. The Secretary of State responded to parliamentary questions on the number of controls. For example, in 2014, 10,566 cases of fraud were detected amounting to €36.7 million. In our view, the government has never been able to demonstrate how its project was necessary and proportionate to better combat social fraud and justify a breach of privacy. This project is also stigmatizing for social beneficiaries. That has been said. But what are the results? In parallel with this debate I also asked the Secretary of State about unannounced visits to the homes of job seekers. The majority voted this law last July and it is still difficult to have figures, but those available show that the effect is almost zero. The measure was ideological. We will come back to the figures, quarterly, and we will see what the actual results of the home check put in place by this government are. Fictive domiciliations could lead to suspicions of tax evasion. Mr. Laaouej follows this closely. In this case, the data collected cannot be transmitted to the Finance FPS. What this is all about is the question of the control of the domicile of the social beneficiaries. For tax fraud, this project as presented to us is not within the competence of the Secretary of State, who does not deal with tax fraud. We must realize that there is double standards. Would home fraud be more admissible in cases of tax evasion than in cases of social fraud? How can we make it clear to the social beneficiaries that consumption data are used for social policy holders but not for tax evasion? That seems totally discriminatory. Let's go back to the cost debate. By the very admission of the distribution system operators, this device will be difficult and complex to implement. He's going to ask for some manual work because everything can't be solved in a computer way, we were told. The network operators made it clear that if the State did not intervene in the financing of these costs, which is not foreseen in the current project, the operators would pass on the cost of this additional work to the distribution rates. Finally, is it reasonable for all consumers to bear the cost of this project, when it will ultimately prove ineffective and unfair? I would also like to talk about the difficulty in implementing the proposed method. I think the Secretary of State is fully aware of this. That is why he tells us that we are going to submit a bill to Parliament. The majority will vote. But you're proposing a pilot project, a test phase. As I said in committee, this is already in itself an admission of impotence. It demonstrates the great difficulty of implementing the project. If not, why do a test phase? The project has very little to say about it. I asked the Secretary of State to tell us how many distribution companies and network operators would be affected by the implementation of the proposed methodology. I didn't get a full answer. I gave the number of 82, by retailing gas, electricity and water. Even at the end of the second reading, Secretary of State, you were unable to confirm that figure. Can you confirm or invalidate this figure today? We are 82 operators, from very small to very large, water authorities in some provinces of the country, plus the Carrefour Bank, the ONEM, the IPSS. This is a large number of operators involved in this project. For the sake of equity among all citizens, all operators should do the same work everywhere, otherwise the same treatment will not be possible for all people depending on the municipality in which the citizens live. In the debate, you said you could not be more specific about the pilot project. So you're deliberately vague on this one. However, the pilot project will not eliminate operational difficulties. We are not alone in making these criticisms. I would like to recall something I said in committee. Three eminent university professors – Professor Daniel Dumont at the ULB, Professor Valérie Flohimont at the University of Namur and Professor Jean-François Neven at the UCL – have published a white card on the subject and state this. So it is not the Socialist Party that says it, but three university professors: "The government's project poses problems of reliability, cost and discrimination to us. First of all, the effectiveness of profiling techniques to remove fictitious domiciliations is far from proven. Not all deviations from average consumption are due to fictitious domiciliation. Many other causes can be considered." I gave them earlier as an example. The three professors continued: "In practice, either the federal state will fund it (which is currently not planned), or the system operators will pass it on to the energy price. If the first solution is chosen, the profitability of the project will probably become quite random: it is not certain at all that the costs of profiling will not exceed the cost of reducing the fraud that could result. In the second case, one may wonder whether it is reasonable to have all consumers bear the costs of a project whose effectiveness is uncertain." Finally, they add: "To the extent that the collection of consumer data will be systematic, it will potentially update fictitious residences motivated by tax concerns. In the current state, it is not intended to pass consumption differences on to the FPS Finances. This difference in treatment calls for further attention. How can we understand the use of data revealing home fraud in the case of social policy holders, but not in the case of tax fraudsters? Would the breach of solidarity be more admissible in one case than in another?" On 22 March last, a terrible day which is unfortunately remembered, the Collective Solidarity Against Exclusion, the League of Human Rights, the SocialEnergy Support Centre, the Brussels Gas-Electricity-Water Coordination and the Walloon Network for Sustainable Access to Energy issued a joint press release considering this project as "disproportional, ineffective, unjust and costly". I quote them, but we are not saying anything other than this external analysis. I come to one last point. I would like to make a parallel with the debate we have had in this House on fingerprints, the Moroccan model. Mr. Secretary of State, you are also in charge of privacy protection and you responded to the suggestion of your colleague Mr. Jambon, who wanted to study for our country the automatic fingerprinting system for every citizen. I reread your reaction, which I applauded in committee: "Is this measure really proportional, not to mention its cost? Above all, we must rely on the efficient management of current data banks instead of collecting as much data as possible. It goes without saying that fingerprinting is not a problem when it comes to people who pose a risk to our society and our security." We all agree on that. And you continue: "By the way, this collection has already taken place. But the collection of all fingerprints for the entire Belgian population seems disproportionate to the objective. Not only would this systematic collection cost taxpayers a lot of money, but I also wonder if it would be of any use." You are absolutely right about this idea that was submitted by Mr. Jambon. Unfortunately, you do not apply it to your own project. And this, in my opinion, is where it hurts. I'd like to make another quote. We have discussed this issue of fingerprints here and I greeted our colleague Sabien Lahaye-Battheu, who is not present today. I quote it in Dutch. "When I hear a minister say that whoever has nothing to hide should fear nothing, I feel a cold chill on my back. Where does that get us anyway? With whom there is nothing to hide, the government certainly has no reason to restrict fundamental civil rights." I greet and applaud Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu. What she said, as well as Mr Tommelein, on fingerprints is perfectly valid for this datamining project for social recipients. As you will have understood, the Socialist Group continues to oppose this negative proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u29	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, you will not be surprised to hear that I do not share your analysis. Finally, we are leading to a project which aims to impose on water, gas and electricity system operators the automatic and systematic transmission of consumption data and the addresses of the customers concerned, to the Banque-Carrefour de la Sécurité sociale. As Mr. Delizée said, this project received a small nickname: "a bazooka project to kill a fly". It's far from deserved and I'll explain why. Under the previous legislature, a decision had already been taken on the fight against social fraud, through a "pull" system designed to detect social beneficiaries who made false statements with a view to receiving increased benefits. This system has borne fruit, from 4,422 cases of fraud in 2012 to 10,566 cases in 2014 and from 24 million recovered to more than 36.8 million in the same period. The validity of such anti-fraud systems is demonstrated to be sufficient, a fraud that undermines our social security system. It also weakens the foundations of our solidarity. This solidarity is necessary and must exist for all the citizens of our country. For us, fraud, whatever its origin, cannot be accepted. We cannot close our eyes, even if the situation of some people might justify it. Fraud remains a theft. We cannot tolerate such behaviour. Neither I nor this majority nor the government allow this organized fraud. Mr. Secretary of State, you've come with a new system. This "push" system will offer control services the opportunity to be even more effective, to improve their accuracy and to target those who will be subject to control. This method will make it possible to work directly on the basis of data which differ considerably from the average. The ratio chosen is 80% of an average household consumption, which is not nothing! Mr Delizée, I do not share your analysis. This makes it possible to rule out a series of very concrete situations of consumption: for example, the one using a rainwater tank, the one having a house with low energy consumption or, on the contrary, very poorly isolated or precarious dwellings. These cases will be excluded from the scope of the system. This ratio will also help to detect extreme situations. You wiped that out of your hand at the commission. I believe that being able to point the finger at extreme situations will allow local authorities to take over and help people who need it more. In addition, this will make it possible to detect a proven fraud situation, which is the primary objective of this provision. As regards the course of operations, the consumption data which will differ significantly from the average will be transmitted to the Banque Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale to be coupled with information already held by other institutions. It is at a time when fraud is proven that the information will be passed on to the social inspectors who will use it in their investigation. This is therefore not at all an administrative overload, neither for the energy distributors nor for the services of the Banque-Carrefour. This is an important point that should be stressed. This new tool has already proved its worth. It has been used for several years by the Brussels government in its fight against unoccupied housing. According to the Brussels administration, the "push" system is effective. As for the Walloon regional administration, it is also considering using it, even if this information is not sounded at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u30	Mr President, I will intervene to give my analysis and appreciation, but I cannot allow Mrs de Coster-Bauchau to transmit false information in the gallery. The Brussels Region does not use the system that you defend in the bill. The system used is based on other minimum consumption criteria (5m3 of water and 100 kW/h per year). It's not the same thing. On the other hand, at the data transmission level, there is no systematic transmission of information with reaction from the administrations, but a cross-checking of data with respect to field investigations carried out by actors from the municipalities and the local police. It is only then that there is intervention. The difference is there! The effectiveness of the Brussels system is to be highlighted where the inefficiency of your system will soon be proven!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u31	I don't share your analysis, Mrs. Gerkens. You're talking about 5 m3 while we're talking about something that stands out 80% of the average. But it is the same principle that will work with other values. There is also a crossing at the level of the Brussels Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u32	Madame de Coster, you said we had a "pull" system before. That's not true, but I'll come back to it later. On the other hand, at the level of housing in the Brussels Region, they do not apply a "push" system.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u33	I didn't mention a "pull" system. I said that this is a system identical to the one in the Brussels Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u34	You made it clear that the Brussels Region had a "push" system. It has the legal possibility to have a "push" system but it does not use it because of its inefficiency because by applying this system they would then be drowned with data. Conversely, they use a "pull" system: when they have suspicions, they will actually look for the data you have cited but they do not apply at all what you have decided to do here which consists of aspirating the data from all the Brussels. That's a big difference. I cannot therefore allow you to say that in Brussels a push system is used since it is not. The driving force behind this decision is to be effective in avoiding the drowning of data where no one is found and, worse, where we miss the fraudsters.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u35	I don't share your analysis. I said it was the same operation as in the Brussels Region, and you just confirmed it. They don't use the entire system, because they changed things afterwards, but at first it was so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u36	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u37	I did not perceive what was said at the hearings in the same way as you did! On the other hand, I realized that the one who came to explain himself was a little uncomfortable when asked questions because he had to say what he had been told to say. It's a system that uses data. Mr. Secretary of State will implement an evaluation period.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u38	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u39	Madam, I can still say what I think! You think what you want, me too! Don't always use such words! I'm going on. This bill we are discussing will provide a complementary tool that will assist services in their work. In particular, it will do so by better targeting those who are trying to benefit from our system of solidarity to which they are not entitled. I would like to reiterate that the primary objective is to determine home fraud. Are people at the address where they say they live and does their family composition correspond to that which is declared to the municipal administrations? In the end, that's the question. We were not the ones who decided that there would be two types of beneficiaries, co-inhabitants and isolated. If my memories are good, this difference has been introduced under previous governments. Today, if you want us to remove it, we can talk about it, but there's a difference. Either we're isolated or we're cohabiting, and the allowances are tied to that status. It is important to reiterate that this is what we are targeting. In this new task entrusted to energy distributors, there will therefore be no increase in costs, neither for Brussels consumers nor for distributors themselves. Some have claimed it and Mr. Delizée has returned. I'm going to the method. I would like to congratulate the Secretary of State for accepting the hearings requested of him. The opposition will not be able to say that we have been forced into this project. The majority responded positively because it remains convinced that it offers an additional and complementary tool to other fraud detection tools. That's a good thing. The same applies to the supplementary opinion which has been requested from the Commission for the Protection of Privacy. We also responded positively. All the hearings organised and the replies provided by the Secretary of State provided details on differences in consumption and average consumption, on the guarantee of privacy, on the protection of such data, on sanctions under the pilot project, on the conduct of the pilot experiment and on its cost. The whole thing was quite constructive. We do not intend at all to stigmatize the social beneficiaries, as some would suggest, nor to hunt the unemployed. On the contrary, we want to sustain our social protection system as we know it. One of our colleagues, Mr Gilkinet, pointed out that there was a need to balance the general interest with the individual interest. I share that view. Mr. Massin was of the same opinion as the majority, since not so long ago, as a director of CPAS, he stated that if people were entitled to social assistance, they also had an obligation to declare their real situation, otherwise it would be to take the money from those who really need it. If we want to preserve our social security, we have to tackle this fraud. As you will understand, the nickname given to this bill is not appropriate and is even outrageous. When we know the budgetary difficulties we are facing, we cannot undermine our social security system. Of course, my group and I will support this government initiative. I invite my colleagues to support it as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u40	Mr. Speaker, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is a source of deep anger in me and my colleagues Ecolo-Groen. It is not only a bazooka to detect some fraud, it is also a system based on the assumption that social recipients are fundamentally potential fraudsters. You may say, as Mrs de Coster does, that this is not stigmatizing, but that such a project aims to identify the average consumption of water, gas and electricity by citizens who have social allowances as income. If it is not to stigmatize and target a population that is presumed to be fraudulent, then I will have to explain the logic. I agree with what Mr Delizée said. At first reading, we have considered, and continue to do, that this project is unrealistic, ineffective, unjust and stigmatizing, because it is based on basic discrimination. What I would like to highlight in my speech is the hypocrisy sometimes used by some members of the committee to justify this project. The use of the arguments they have used suggests to me that they are not so clear and clear in relation to the performance, the honesty of the system. You argue that this is a way to improve administrative simplification, given the number of administrations involved in ensuring basic income, replacement income or survival income for our fellow citizens. It is therefore the poorest citizens who will have to bear at their expense the inability of this government to organise administrative simplification, which is one of the priorities of this government. I remember Mr. Van Quickenborne in 1999, who, at the entrance of his office on Rue de la Loi, had affixed a hourglass with small blue papers to indicate the number of administrative burdens. And he hoped to reach the end of the legislature without these blue papers. I think that hourglass is still on the wall, unless it was removed a few months ago, and there are always so many blue papers! Administrative simplification is the responsibility of you, the responsibility of the politicians and not of the citizens who are the poorest in our country. The other element is hypocrisy, which means that this wonderful tool will fight poverty. It will help to identify and identify persons who were entitled to an allowance and did not apply for it. Because they consume too much or too little electricity, they can be identified and rescued. People who have died will be identified without their deaths being reported. People who grow cannabis can be identified, as excessive electricity consumption will be detected. The majority therefore went to search for arguments of this nature to justify this project! This is proof that they realize how stupid it is to set up such a system. More fundamentally, according to the analysis and the criticisms which corroborate my remarks, we are going to drown the information administrations. It's going to take a lot of money. This will require the mobilization of public servants for a result that may be minimal. All those working with people receiving benefits, who are in a precarious situation or in poverty agree that the criteria used (80 per cent of the average consumption) are not meaningful. Worse still, these are criteria that run counter to the collective intelligence that this population has developed. If I have low incomes, if I live in a dwelling that I have to heat – and we rarely have an impeccable dwelling when we have little means – it is obvious that I do not spend my days, my evenings and my nights at home. Instead, I will spend my days and, if possible, my evenings in heated collective places in order to limit my expenses. These people will be targeted by the measure. On the other hand, some people consume much more than they should, given the unsafeness of their homes or the illness of family members. These people will be systematically inspected and checked. It is possible that after a check, one can decide not to take any sanction. Nevertheless, the persons concerned will have been monitored and will continue to be monitored in the future. This brings me to the question of the feasibility of the system or not and the need for a test phase. Even Frank Robben, who was in favour of data collection and data banks, said that the way in which the system could be imagined could lead to too much use of resources and people, given the inflow and systematic use of data, and that testing was essential. An evaluation, which you added to your project, is not a test. During this procedure, people will be monitored and punished. If it leads to a negative conclusion, you will not be able to go back. So these are not two identical realities. You mustn't lie to the public. I would like to reply to Mrs de Coster-Bauchau. I've read the report again. On page 13, Mr. Lopes tells us: "This is how the finding of water and electricity consumption below a certain threshold can be a criterion of inoccupation. This criterion, rarely isolated, reinforces an already existing presumption." In Brussels, it is a matter of punishing an owner, not a citizen who leaves his house unoccupied. He also insisted that the system in place in the capital should be effective. This is another element that is not planned and that we are even trying to eliminate through this project. According to him, it is necessary for this to be based on an inspection in the neighbourhoods in order to identify empty housing. That is what matters, Mrs de Coster: if we want to fight against social or other fraud and to detect the risks of poverty, we must be on the ground and observe families in their lives. It is not a question of sending them an inspector, on the ground that a figure appeared in a statistical statement. We are talking about the need for social and integration policies, but we are doing everything we can to prevent human relations and replace man with the machine.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u41	You're mixing two things. It has never been said that under this project the inspectors and social work of the municipalities would be replaced by this type of project. It is a complementary tool specifically related to fraud. Compared to the data we could obtain, we may be faced with cases of poverty or with cases in which we can intervene and where the CPAS will intervene. They're two different things, you don't have to mix them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u42	This mix of policies aimed at the fight against poverty, it was the members of the committee and the majority who did so. When you set up an automatic, mathematical data transmission system and then send an inspector, you do not facilitate social and field work. Not only do you not make it easier, but you're also hurting it. You're gonna disrupt him or even stop him. Mr Lopes of the Unoccupied Housing Unit in Brussels said that there were indeed two possibilities for using the data. Either the officers of the service may initiate an investigation on the basis of the information provided, or they use the data provided in order to strengthen a presumption of infringement. With experience, the second method has proved to be more effective because it avoids unnecessary research in the case of an already sufficiently strong presumption. It was therefore Mr Lopes who said that, in experience, the second system had to be chosen. He also said, on page 22 of the report, that even by taking this second lead, a reform of services and additional work was necessary and that mathematical work was complex. If mathematical work is complex, with a minimum basic consumption, what to say when one takes as mathematical reference an average consumption and a deviation from an average consumption? In my opinion, it will be even more complicated. This government wants to cut budgets for the administration, for the public service. In this way we will find ourselves with an administration which, either spends its time checking on the basis of a meter reading and will therefore no longer be able to meet the other needs of the population, or will be unable to fulfil the role expected of it. I will conclude by saying that we have tabled an amendment which takes up the Brussels system so much boasted, since you want to draw inspiration from it. This amendment proposes to identify and report consumption of less than five cubic metres and 100 kWh per year. The advantage of these consumption thresholds is that these criteria are based on analyses. What is the minimum need of a person occupying a dwelling? What are the data to be collected for occupied housing? In the absence of these data, we have evidence that the housing is unoccupied. The amendment that we have tabled, still based on the Brussels system which has shown its effectiveness, proposes, in case of presumption and on the basis of other elements – minimum consumption is a complementary element to be included in the investigation – that there may be, in this case, an inspection due to an increased suspicion of fictitious domicile or fraud. On the other hand, there was a way to take other measures that would simplify the lives of all the administrations, in addition to those receiving allowances and replacement income, I am talking about the individualization of rights. It is also a way to simplify, to be fair, to fight poverty and to meet needs, but one prefers to control and exclude citizens from rights. There is also a need to work on non-use of rights. For the SPF Social integration, this affects more than half of the beneficiaries and those entitled to benefits. Social fraud amounts to between 4 and 10 per cent. Where are the priorities set? Are they aimed at those who, unfortunately, do not have access to work and wages, who receive a replacement allowance? What is important is to provide them with a minimum income that allows them to live in dignity, and probably also to continue to participate in society and perhaps to seek work when there is or is the priority of stigmatization and exclusion? Among the various measures put in place by this government, I note that the exclusion measures are repeated. A society that excludes people from their dignity and no longer allows them to feel full members of that society. In doing so, the government takes very serious risks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u43	Today we are discussing a bill that is based first and foremost on a principled position. I would like to remind you that my group is in favour of fighting social fraud. Effective and proportionate means are needed to be effective. This bill contains some more than disturbing elements. My colleague from the MR who left our meeting earlier made absolutely incorrect statements. Mr Secretary of State, you will obviously not be able to deny that! The representative of the MR said in this forum that the social inspection service already had the famous "pool" system which allows to obtain data on consumption, on demand from the inspection services, in case of suspicion of fraud and singularly fictitious domiciliation. May I remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the MR, that the legal basis of this system, in particular with Articles 100 to 105 of the Programme Law of 29 March 2012, is actually in force? But the royal decree was never taken. Consequently, this system, which exists on paper, has not been finalized, which would have allowed the use of this famous "pool" system. The words of our colleague from the MR are therefore absolutely false. The Royal Decree which allowed the entry into force of the scheme was not adopted by this Government. Moreover, the distribution systems confirmed that they had never been contacted to adopt and implement this system. Not knowing that the implementing order was not taken and asserting that the system already existed, it is still a little light on the part of the MR! I have already explained the reality of Brussels-Capital, so I am not going to start again. The second element that raises questions in this framework is effectiveness. You have decided to go and get the data from all Belgians since we are all consumers. You will look for those who deviate 80% upwards or downwards from the average consumption. What are you going to find since we have the numbers and projections? Overall, 7 per cent of households will be above the 80 per cent threshold in addition to the average and 2 per cent will be above 80 per cent below the average. You will then detect a range of people, including those who have swimming pools, photovoltaic panels or tanks. But the real fraudsters are likely to pass between the meshes of the net. You might miss the target. I take an example that is sometimes better than a long speech. Will a parent who lives with his or her children and takes care of himself or herself see his or her consumption increase to 80% of the average consumption? Clearly not. In particular, you are looking at the case I have just mentioned and your system will not be able to detect it. You will therefore not be effective in the fight against social fraud and fictitious domiciliations. Let me say how much you have also not considered the problem of combating social dumping and unfair competition. You know that there are also fictitious companies that are causing unacceptable situations of unfair competition for our companies. You absolutely didn't actuate that lever. This is not the first time, Mr Secretary of State and colleagues of the majority, that I point out your lack of willingness to act on these levers even though you have the capacity and the practical means to combat social dumping; and yet you are acting on them for other purposes. On the other hand, we were in favour of a system that would have enabled us to activate the legal basis that we have today and that we have never put into practice. Indeed, it is useful to have a system that allows consumption to be obtained from people when there are suspicions and doubts about fraud and especially when it comes to fictitious domiciliation. I believe that this system should indeed be activated and put in place. This would have been effective, proportionate and would have enabled us to move forward in the fight against social fraud. The last point I wanted to raise with you is your persistence in this matter. You have not yet used the "pull" system, which is intended to suck up the data when there are doubts. We told you that maybe we should start with that. No, you pretended not to know that the system had never been applied and that this royal decree had never been taken. You have been told that this is going to be expensive and that, as I have just shown, this system is not effective. Again, you said you absolutely wanted this system. You wanted the pen in the hat! You also wiped out the views of the NTC, the Privacy Commission, with one back of your hand. This is a fine paradox for a Secretary of State in charge of competence! You swept away the fact that you were no longer competent at the federal level for family allowances. You retain the exercise of jurisdiction but you are no longer competent to amend the legislation relating to family allowances, since, as I recall, it was transferred to the federated entities with the sixth reform of the State. I heard my colleague, Jean-Marc Delizée, earlier saying how interesting this white card of teachers Dumont, Flohimont and Neven was. I recall that I had proposed that they be heard and that everyone, including part of the opposition, had then rejected my request. Now, everyone is rushing to support their comments, which would have been very interesting at the beginning of committee work. We are clearly in favour of the fight against social fraud because, as with any fraud, this is obviously not acceptable. As I have just explained, we are deeply puzzled by the effectiveness of the system you have imagined and the means used by the government in this context. So we will abstain from your bill. On the other hand, I repeat, we support a system of control of consumption data whenever there is a doubt or suspicion of fictitious domicile or fraud, a system which, until now, has never been put in place despite what some have tried to make believe. Finally, you will allow me to expand the debate a little. Through this project, I would like, once again, to point out that even if the government is still determined in the fight against social fraud – another thing to say is that it will be effective, I have just mentioned it – it would be good, ministers, if the government also strives to fight with the same energy and determination against great tax evasion, against tax havens and against great financial crime. In fact, the least we can say is that, as the days pass, additional dossiers emerge each time in the news that show that there are famous locks to tighten and famous levers to operate. In this respect, the least we can say is that the government is on the balcony.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u44	Mrs Fonck, you are right; your last remark was to the point. We must fight with the government consistently against all forms of fraud and thus against tax fraud. I may not have the authority to do so, but I am still speaking out as a member of the government. Do we have to tolerate the fact that rich citizens are avoiding taxes? No. Should we tolerate the fact that banks that were saved with our taxpayers' money are cooperating in such constructions? No, Mrs. Fonck. Everyone has to contribute to our system. The question is simply whether we should leave non-tax fraud, such as social fraud, untouched, because there is a great deal of tax fraud at international level. We let whoever steals a DVD not just walk, because others steal television sets. We leave drivers who drive 70 km/h where they can drive 50 km/h, not alone, because others drive 100 km/h or 120 km/h? Surely we are not going to let a catering business work in the dark, because construction and transport companies are also doing international and social dumping? Colleagues, fraud is a crime and social fraud is a crime, whether on a large or small scale. Of course, with the government, we are using people and resources to tackle the major international social dumping. That is even my top priority, but that does not mean that we should leave other forms of fraud, such as benefit fraud, blue-blue. Over the past few years, I have often heard that I want to catch the little man, that we want to stigmatize, that measures such as the automatic transmission of very different consumption data would lead to poverty and even exclusion. The opposite is true. Mrs Gerkens, you are talking about an individual right in which everything must be negotiable. However, I believe that the current system with different contributions based on information on the status of the data subject.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So you've had plenty of opportunities to change things. You didn't do that back then. So you shouldn't be whining about it now. Colleagues, the proposed measure ensures that those who are not entitled to benefits do not receive any. Therefore, we should not recover benefits unduly granted afterwards. In this way, we will end social fraud in the long term before it takes place. I would therefore like to emphasise the preventive nature of the measure. In that preventive effect, I firmly believe. From now on, people know very clearly that it does not pay to cheat. Giving up a false address to get a higher benefit than one is entitled to is not a good idea. Unrighteous money will have to be repaid. I recently had an international discussion in the Flemish Parliament with representatives from different countries on social dumping. A colleague of the SP from the Netherlands was also present. He came to congratulate me because we will tackle benefit fraud on the basis of energy data. Mr Delizée, we are talking about a colleague of the SP. He encouraged me to go further, because I wouldn't go far enough. He invited me to come and look at the approach in the Netherlands, where much more data is used than we are doing today. I'll give you that. The SP is even more left-wing than the PvdA, even more social. Colleagues, despite the claims made here, this measure is indeed proportionate and very well limited. Mr Delizée, for the record, I can tell you that eight distribution system operators are involved. You can find that information on the website of the CREG. Those distribution system operators are ORES, Tecteo, Régie de Wavre, AIESH and AIEG in Wallonia, Sibelga in Brussels and Eandis and Infrax in Flanders. You claim you didn't get that information. Well, you now have the eight names of the distribution system operators. Those distribution system operators will report a very different use to the Crossroads Bank of Social Security. Mrs Fonck, I would also like to return to your question. You say that we at federal level are no longer competent for child benefit, and that is true. Since 1 July 2014, family allowances have been officially a competence of the region's debt holders. However, until 31 December 2019 there will be a transitional period, whereby Famifed, DIBISS and the family allowances funds continue to carry out their implementation. This implementation has also taken over control powers. That also turned out to be during a visit that I paid Famifed. At that meeting, Famifed asked to be involved in the pilot project, because of its highly preventive nature. Anyone who thinks of child benefit fraud has been warned immediately: it will not work. In addition, we intend to include the RIZIV in the pilot project, which seems to us to be a necessity. After all, it is also a very topical issue that needs to be addressed. The Crossroads Bank of Social Security crosses the data. In the case of a very different energy consumption, the data on this matter only go to the Social Inspectorate if you are entitled to a benefit. It can then, I say, look at the data and use it if there is a suspicion of social fraud. For the record, utilities don't get data from benefit recipients. Only the Crossroads Bank of Social Security may match energy data and benefit data. For the sake of clarity, the minimum deviation limit is 80% and that according to different family types. So it is not about 80% consumption compared to the average, but an 80% deviation. This means that it must be very clear that there is no question of lighting up often or very little. An 80% deviation means that there is or may be something wrong. Then we'll check it out. It is about a serious deviation and an annual adjustment of consumption, not just about a little less consumption. That is why I do not think that the Green amendment is useful: I note that there is no need to take account of different average consumptions. The different distribution system operators do take into account different categories and in my pilot test I will also take into account the different consumption categories. For example, it is taken into account whether one lives alone or has five children. The 80 per cent deviation is checked; the deviation acts as a flashing light for those who need to check if something is wrong. I do not think that the remark that we do not comply with the advice of the Privacy Commission is correct. We have two opinions from the Privacy Commission and that second opinion from the Privacy Committee has only come because there has been a hearing that I have agreed to. As Secretary of State for the Protection of Privacy, I have an exemplary function, which means that I take into account comments and make adjustments. That's what I did. A processor has indeed been designated for the data. It is true that there should be a general legal basis for data mining and data matching. We're working on that, too. We have provided a legal basis for this draft, but it needs to be extended now. That file will be followed up by my cabinet in the next few weeks. By the way, I find it rather harsh when people say that I am making this a test project. Of course I'll make that a test project. What's wrong with a test project? I'd be insecure, and I don't really know all about it. It has been my clear choice from the outset to put a test project on the table, so that we can make a clear assessment and, if necessary, adjust it. Mr Raskin, you are asking for work to be done on the restructuring of social security. I think you're right. You will find a supporter in me. We must move towards administrative simplification, simplification of processes, simplification of models and simplification of structures, both for social security and for the Social Inspectorate. I will record this together with my competent colleagues, especially my good colleague Maggie De Block. Let me repeat, ladies and gentlemen, that fraud is a crime. Tax fraud is also a crime. I always notice that when it comes to safety, there is never a problem of creating a database and doing certain things with it, because safety is so important. I agree, Mr Jambon. Security is important. I think there are a number of things that need to be taken into account, which makes sense. The fight against terror is important. The fight against tax fraud is important. If my colleague from Finance needs my expertise to use the system to detect tax fraud, then he has an ally in me. However, it must be done by saying that the Secretary of State responsible for social fraud cannot do anything, because there is tax fraud and then he would catch the little man. It is unacceptable to me that certain parties are cramped when it comes to social fraud. If I can use the system to fight poverty, people are in favour. If one can use it in the fight against terror, then one is in favour. If one can use it in the fight against emptiness, one is in favour. If it is used in the fight against unfairly receiving benefits, it is stigmatizing and unacceptable. Well, I don't accept that. Mrs de Coster-Bauchau, if we have to, we will also find poverty, but I am honest that this is not the purpose of the project. If, on the basis of databases of energy data, you want to identify people in poverty in order to combat poverty, you have an ally in me and I will include it together with my fellow Members from the Regions. This means, however, that we must adopt another draft law with a different purpose and with a different proportionality. I make sure that we reserve our social security for those who really need it and not for fraudsters.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u45	Mr President, I have a very brief question. Mr Secretary of State, I hear you arguing that these databases should be there for sure, including for security. You say that we must fight both social fraud and tax fraud. You will find an absolute ally in us for that. Since you consider these databases to be so important for combating fraud, are you in favour of a capital registry?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u46	I am the Secretary of State responsible for combating social fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u47	That's a silly answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u48	Let Mr Tommelein speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u49	Mrs Temmerman, I have just said two words, my answer was not complete. The next thing I'm gonna tell you, you're gonna like it even less. I am therefore the Secretary of State responsible for combating social fraud and my predecessor was the Secretary of State responsible for combating fraud. He was responsible for both the fight against tax fraud and the fight against social fraud. The question is why he didn't introduce it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u50	I can answer that immediately, because your party was against it. However, I asked you a direct question. You say that you are in favour of these databases and for their use in the fight against tax and social fraud. Since you did not answer my question directly, I assume that you are in favour of a capitalist. Thank you for that information.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u51	Mrs. Temmerman, you deliberately misusing my words. I have listened very carefully to what I am saying, my expertise and what I have gathered here over the past few months to deal with it, offered to my colleague in the finance department. Moreover, I was struck by the opposition in the fight against social fraud, because I could not balance the protection of privacy and the fight against fraud. When it comes to social fraud, the Secretary of State responsible for the protection of privacy must be dealt with, because he does not take sufficient account of privacy. However, when it comes to tax fraud, it seems that this is not at all the case, Mrs Temmerman. Then all that doesn't count anymore. I tell you that you measure with two sizes and two weights.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u52	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u53	I have had the opportunity to speak about the content and I will not go back to it. Nevertheless, Mr Secretary of State, I think you are confusing an objective of administrative simplification with intellectual and political simplicity! In your way of presenting things, you always turn the talk to your advantage. For example, we have never said that you cannot do anything about social matters because there is no fight against tax fraud. We have said that this government, in the name of administrative simplification, is mobilizing all its energy to fight the poorest, originally suspected of fraud. On the other hand, the Government has not implemented measures that have long been identified as capable of combating tax evasion. It's not the same thing! On the other hand, you say you want to cut spending and therefore the number of civil servants. I didn't hear you say anything about it. All of the experiences and stakeholders that have expressed themselves in this area are evidence that this will be an additional workload, resulting in a significant data cross-section that will require more human resources. Yet your government is not planning them. Don't make us believe anything by turning you away from reality! Finally, with regard to the individualization of rights, since our participation in the government, you have budgetary information on the cost of any individualization or raising of allowances at the level of the poverty line. So you have the necessary elements to make things happen, and I expect you to do so in the near future, since, to hear your answer, you are in favour of the idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u54	The bill before us deals only with the issue of home control and therefore the fight against social fraud, even if the Secretary of State tells us that he would be in favour of his colleagues taking initiatives in this area. Therefore, we need to rule only on this matter, which falls within the scope of your competence. If something is detected about taxation, it would be logical for follow-up to be ensured. We look forward to further initiatives from your colleagues and your government on the fight against tax fraud and poverty. You are also referring to the issue of terror and terrorism. I hope that the government will propose more effective measures than the review of the energy bills of all Belgians, designed to dislodge individuals engaged in terrorist practices. There is, on the one hand, the discourse and, on the other, the effectiveness of the action. The Secretary of State holds the same inflamed speech as in committee, and he does it very well. The effectiveness of this measure is in question. Mrs Fonck is quite right to say that the law of 2012, with a royal decree, imposing the "pull" system, which is based on presumptions, is bearing fruit. This is what is in place in Brussels. When we collect everyone's data, and the experiment has been done, we don't get anything: a few percent, it's derisory. On the other hand, when a check is carried out on the basis of presumptions, this gives results. Anyway, you're sticking to the speech. You're going to explain to me that the system is different in the Netherlands. All this has no interest in this debate. As far as the operational nature of the method is concerned, I tell you that this will be impracticable. In distribution companies, there are pure and mixed system operators. All operators, including electricity authorities, must be taken into account. According to my calculations, there are ten GRDs in Flanders, twelve in Wallonia and one in Brussels. They also deal with gas. For water, and including the small communal authorities that exist in some parts of the country, I reach 59 operators-distributors and system operators. We thus reach a total of 82 operators – outside the Social Security Carrefour Bank, the ONEM and the social security agencies. You never answered about their number. I therefore draw your attention to the equal treatment of our fellow citizens, regardless of their municipality and regardless of the district government for water and electricity. In any case, we are not going to change our point of view. We maintain that this project will not produce any results. We will see this, moreover, by means of the numbers of checks at the place of residence of the unemployed. All this is powder in the eyes. This measure will demonstrate its ineffectiveness and, above all, its terribly discriminatory nature for the beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u55	Mr Secretary of State, as far as family allowances are concerned, although you are trying to reinterpret the sixth reform of the State, I should like to remind you that the competence has been transferred, including on the control side. It is simply the exercise on hold and on behalf of the Regions that is exercised by Famifed. This means that, pending the transfer of the fiscal year, the federal government is no longer competent to amend the rules. The texts are clear. Moreover, this was very simply confirmed, in November 2015, by your colleague, Minister Peeters, in an answer to a parliamentary question that I would like to ask you, if you are interested. With respect to the bill, we will abstain because, indeed, the fight against social fraud is just as important as the fight against any kind of fraud. We'll also abstain because I think you're going to miss the target, besides the fact that you're going to be drowned with information. It's a little bit like when it comes to the fight against terrorism, you're tapping all the Belgians. I can assure you that you would be particularly ineffective and that terrorists would pass through the net. It's much better to target phone taps. In this case, I think you would do much better to target and have a system to get the consumption data. Besides this, the future can also give some fun elements. You will recall that we had a small debate in committee about how you drafted your bill, which means that the social inspection services are also competent to control a whole series of remunerative benefits: company cars, benefits in kind, gsm, professional use of the home. In practice, since you want to control all the alternatives to cash, you will also, with your system, find yourself with particularly " amusing" situations. It will simply be proof that this bill has been mislinked!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u56	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u57	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1554/8) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1554/8) The title was amended by the Commission in draft law amending the Programme Act (I) of 29 March 2012 on the control of the misuse of fictitious addresses by the persons entitled to social benefits, with a view to the systematic transmission to the KSZ of certain utility and distribution system operators' consumption data to improve data mining and data matching in the fight against social fraud." The title has been amended by the Commission in draft law amending programme law (I) of 29 March 2012 on the control of the abuse of fictitious addresses by beneficiaries of social benefits, with a view to introducing the systematic transmission of certain consumption data from distribution companies and distribution system operators to the BCSS improving datamining and dating in the fight against social fraud. The draft law contains 8 articles. The bill has 8 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u58	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u59	Held: the vote on the amendments and on Articles 2 and 4. Article adopted by article: Articles 1, 3, 5 to 8.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u60	******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u61	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Stéphane Crusnière, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u62	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1656/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1656/04) The draft law has 34 articles. The bill has 34 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u63	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u64	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Ahmed Laaouej, Fabienne Winckel, Jean-Marc Delizée, Karine Lalieux, Alain Mathot. The Committee on Trade and Economic Law proposes that this bill be rejected. (972/2) The Committee on Commercial and Economic Law proposes to reject this bill. (972/2) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u65	Mr President, the question to this Parliament through this bill is whether we can regulate, in certain ways and to some extent, the wage policy of managers in large companies. Why? Because it is questionable whether it is good for a company to have management salaries linked to short-term results. In fact, too often we see bonuses, stock options that are immediately linked to the profits of the company in the very short term. Does this kind of wage practice not lead to a search for profit to the detriment of the company's long-term development? Is there not a potential perverse effect in this way? The second reason why there is a legitimate question of whether or not to regulate the wages of managers in large companies is that, given the evolution of wage differentials within companies, while some of them sometimes carry out collective redundancies while they are in benefit, it is difficult for workers to understand that they are being asked for sacrifices while their employers are being allocated sometimes exorbitant sums. The first bill, the one I have tabled, which aims to limit variable wages to 30% of fixed wages and does not allow the granting of bonuses when the company makes collective redundancies and takes as a sanction an over-taxation of what would exceed this ceiling, pursues this objective of reasonably regulating variable remuneration. We do so because it appeared that certain behaviours were particularly indecent. Not to mention the company concerned, which is well known in the brewing sector, one of its managers has given itself very impressive stock options, as well as bonuses in addition to a particularly high fixed wage, even though the company was redundancies while it had operating profits in billions of euros. How do you want workers to understand this kind of behaviour and practice and, beyond workers, society as a whole? I started my presentation by recalling that there could even be a drift hindering the smooth functioning of the economy if some managers were encouraged to see only short-term profit. This can be achieved through choices that run counter to the interests of the company itself and its sustainable development. This has been particularly the case in the financial sector. We saw it at the time of the 2008 financial crisis. In the financial sector, a number of people admitted that this had motivated them to take unconsidered risks in the management of the banking institution. Finally, having my colleagues in the majority reject the bill that we are tabling suggests that they are not learning from the financial crisis. Let us remember that Lehman Brothers' big boss had received bonuses worth $400 million. Lehman Brothers was at the heart of the 2008 financial crisis. What is true in the financial sector is true in the economy in general. Obviously, you do not want to hear it, you do not want to accompany us in this desire to regulate the economy through the regulation of the wage policies of business owners. We can only regret it. The arguments, which we advanced in our work, have not received any decisive contradictions. However, I would like to stress the very important contribution made by Mr Delperée, who helped us to improve the text, in particular in its wording, in order to make it compatible with the Constitution, in particular with regard to the criterion of equality and also with regard to legislating. In this connection, we said that we were open to amendments, as we also said to the majority this time, that we were open to substantive changes as long as that progressed. We have recorded a refusal of principle which marks an ideological posture of preserving certain interests at the expense of a desire to regulate the economy for more efficiency, for more justice within the company. Mr President, that is what I wanted to remind you. I regret once again the refusal of the majority groups to go towards more wage justice, more economic justice and, in essence, more justice at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u66	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u67	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Frédéric Daerden, Jean-Marc Delizée, Özlem Özen, Paul-Olivier Delannois, Fabienne Winckel. The Committee on Trade and Economic Law proposes that this bill be rejected. (177/2) The Committee on Commercial and Economic Law proposes to reject this bill. (177/2) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u68	Mr President, I did not have the opportunity to hear my colleague Laaouej, but I think he must have been excellent, as usual. In fact, the two proposals are very complementary and have unfortunately been rejected in committee. That is why we wanted to represent them in plenary. I will elaborate on the second proposal which concerns the same issue of remuneration. The idea is simple. My group and I want private and public companies to publish the proportion of managers' salaries to the median wage in their company. For your information, the median wage is the wage that allows you to have half the payroll above it and the other half below it. The aim is to reveal the wage differences that exist. It is a concern for transparency. As my colleague mentioned earlier, there are sometimes huge differences in companies. If you take a few large companies, it sometimes goes to more than a hundred in relation between the highest wage and the lowest wage. This is not a logic of prohibition, it is a logic of transparency to improve the economic vision of these wage differences. It can only be regretted that even this element of transparency could not have received support in committee. Various arguments were raised by the majority, saying that we were going back in a logic of class struggle discourse, that European regulations were going to solve the problem, that Belgian legislation was already very transparent in relation to the salaries of top managers. In fact, all this is not a reality. What we are saying already exists elsewhere, in the United States, in Britain. They are not particularly communist countries and there is already this logic of transparency. You want to wait for Europe. But we do not have to wait for a directive to solve the problem. We can be at the forefront of transparency and provide for this in the management reports which already contain a series of references. Finally, it makes no sense to say that this additional transparency would be detrimental to the competitiveness of our companies. Transparency has never been a barrier to competitiveness. This refusal seems to me to be ideological. He deserved a debate in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u69	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u70	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 291: Karine Lalieux, Paul-Olivier Delannois, Fabienne Winckel - 835: Peter Dedecker, Daphné Dumery, Johan Klaps, Jef Van den Bergh. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to this bill and these legislative proposals. I suggest that you have a single discussion on this bill and these bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u71	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Ann Vanheste, rapporteur, referred to her written report. Mrs Cassart, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u72	Mr Friart will speak for me because I am called to committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u73	He's not here. The speakers are Mrs Smaers, Mr Vanden Burre, from heer Klaps, who has just entered. I call Mr Klaps.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u74	Mr President, with this draft law, the Minister has made a good exercise of the so-called middle course. A balance has been sought between the wishes of the various stakeholders. This is clear from the written opinions received by the committee. For one it goes too far or just not far enough for a particular point, for the other it is just the other way around. It is an effective compromise. Consumer protection is, after all, very much improved compared to the current situation. The ESIS document to be offered to the customer together with the offer guarantees greater clarity and transparency for the consumer. During the discussion, a number of colleagues called, mainly from the opposition, for an automatic extension of the duration of a mortgage loan with a variable interest rate, if that interest rate changes. I am glad that this proposal did not reach the final version, because if the duration of a loan is extended, the interest charges reimbursed will increase exponentially. So it is quite possible that this is a temporary solution for a number of borrowers, but if one were to turn it into an automatism, it would cost a lot of people very much and also unnecessary costs. Consumer protection is good, as I said. The acceptance criteria are good. The statistics have shown this for years. The number of cases with late payments in our country is increasing in nominal terms, but the ratio is not. The number of loans is increasing, so there are also more delays. However, the delay is limited to about 1% of all open files. In my view, this is a good balance between becoming too strict when it comes to acceptance, on the one hand, and still ensuring that loans can be properly paid off, on the other. During the discussion a special concern was raised by the representatives of bank and insurance intermediaries. Quite right, I mean. It has long been a common practice for mortgage loans to be paid through a one-off commission immediately after the mortgage has been established. A new regulation has now been introduced, whereby one half of the committee is paid immediately and the other half is distributed, just as is the case with consumer credit. During the discussion, I called on you to keep this deadline as short as possible, otherwise this will cause serious cash flow problems for the intermediaries. I am therefore very pleased that you have promised to take this into account in the drafting of the Royal Decree. That's definitely a plus. Ladies and gentlemen, there has also been a very long debate on the so-called bundled sale. A number of fellow Members called for a total ban. I believe, however, that this would be a step too far. We must, of course, continue to monitor whether there are complaints about it, but I have called on all stakeholders to report the complaints in this regard. People are always talking about complaints here, but when I ask for them in concrete terms, I don't get one. I think it's not that bad in practice. Also remember that commercial discounts for loans can be very large in case of bundled sales. Today it is possible to purchase all these products separately. It's gonna stay that way. There is no obstacle for a bank to unpack with separate mortgage rates without bundled sales. It is awaiting market entry, but a ban might go too far. Finally, I am particularly pleased that the N-VA legislative proposal by Mr Dedecker, Mrs Dumery, myself and CD&V member Jef Van den Bergh to allow a mortgage on houseboats is being incorporated into the draft law. It is a sigh that has been going on in our group for some time. The Minister picked them up, agreed wholeheartedly and integrated them into the draft, for which, of course, we are grateful and our support. We shall therefore give our full support to the draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u75	Mr President, I was just saying that the competent minister should be able to talk to Parliament about this 500-page project.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u76	The minister answers questions in a commission and we're going to pick him up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u77	I'm Mrs. Lalieux's spokesman. Can I intervene later?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u78	Yes, and I propose that Mr Friart be given the floor in the meantime to give the floor to Mr Delizée in a few moments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u79	Mr. Speaker, Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill before us today contains a number of provisions aimed at ensuring greater transparency in the mortgage credit market. Some measures provide, in particular, better information and consumer protection, while introducing the obligation for lenders and credit intermediaries to transmit personalised information to consumers. This information is collected in a European standardized fact sheet that will allow consumers to compare credit products available on the market. This will enable them to make an informed decision as to whether or not to conclude a credit agreement. The bill also aims to promote responsible credit and thus to better inform consumers when they subscribe to a mortgage so that they can better assess their risks and thus anticipate possible repayment difficulties. Transparency therefore plays a key role in this regard. The bill also determines how the overall effective annual rate is calculated. Through the standardized form, the lender will have to provide the consumer with personal information free of charge, in order to encourage product comparison. The information will take into account the candidate's needs, financial situation and preferences. It will also have to be precise about the conditions for obtaining credit, in particular as regards the conditions for subscription of insurance contracts or the consequences of early repayment. It will also have to mention the service to which a complaint can be made, clarify the procedure in case of default of repayment by the borrower as a result of financial problems and provide contact to the person to be requested in order to possibly obtain a flexible repayment plan. Banks will also have an obligation to communicate the total cost of credit to consumers and to inform them of the associated risks. In this way, the consumer will be able to choose the best way of credit, the best suitable product. The related sale – that is, the sale in batch form of a credit agreement and other separate financial products or services – will also be prohibited as soon as the credit is not offered separately. Credit institutions will obviously have a transitional period to adapt to the new provisions. If this project strengthens the guarantees for the consumer, however, it ensures that it does not over-regulate, which could, it should be stressed, make the conditions for access to credit so severe and costly that a number of categories of the population, especially young people, but also the middle class, would be unable to enter into a mortgage credit in order to become the owner of a dwelling. If the bill is to be welcomed, it is appropriate not to be deaf to the remarks made by a number of actors on the ground, particularly when passing the implementing orders to which we will pay attention. For example, it is common for intermediaries to be paid through a single commission paid immediately after the final establishment of a mortgage. However, the new regulations that will be introduced to implement the bill will have a significant impact on intermediaries. Indeed, the draft law provides that the first half of the commission must be paid in advance, the payment of the second half being staggered on the basis of the system which already exists for consumer credits. This new regulation, the terms of which still have to be defined by royal decree, could, in particular, have the effect of reducing the revenues of intermediaries, since the single prepaid commissions constitute a recurrent part of the remuneration. The Minister will have to pay particular attention to this aspect, as well as to the other points raised by the various actors consulted during the work in committee, but also upstream, since you have also indicated that you have consulted widely with the stakeholders concerned. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, if it welcomes the key elements of the bill, the MR Group will pay particular attention to the follow-up to be given to it so as not to penalise the credit intermediary sector, whose economic role we believe is indisputable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u80	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a number of fellow Members have already explained the objective and scope of the draft law. I will briefly mention some of our group's concerns regarding the transposition of the European directive on mortgage credit and consumer protection into internal legislation. It is the intention to come to more responsible borrowing. The Directive provides for a shift in the scope of application, which means that credits currently regarded as consumer loans are regarded as mortgage credits in the case of mortgage lending. This is a major adjustment which also calls for an adjustment of consumer protection measures. I explain myself and refer to the example of car financing, which can now be regarded as a mortgage credit under the cover of a mortgage. That is why, of course, we support all measures to provide additional consumer protection for such credits. In addition to consumer protection and additional protection, we consider transparency and clarity to be extremely important. Consumers should be able to obtain information necessary to compare credit products on the market and thus decide whether or not to enter into a credit agreement. We are therefore pleased that the transposition of this directive into internal law has allowed the introduction of a European standardised information sheet. The creditor or credit intermediary should provide information to the consumer free of charge via that form. The free aspect is important and was part of the discussion in the committee. Some were concerned that such a document would be delivered to the consumer late. Of course, we believe that the document must be delivered to the consumer in good time. The Minister has repeatedly stressed in committee that this cannot always be done at the same time as the offer of credit, but that he does invite the banks to ensure that the document is delivered to the consumer before the offer of credit, i.e. in good time. Our group is pleased that the Minister has not responded to the demand from a number of actors to increase the reinvestment fee in response to the massive refinancing requests from low interest rates, and that the reinvestment fee has remained the same. As far as possible, views were taken into account when drafting the draft law, but not all the views of the various stakeholders. One of the sighs concerns the gradual remuneration of the brokers. We also discussed this in committee and asked the Minister to take this into account as closely as possible in the implementation of the draft law. The present draft law, which we agree with, offers additional protection to consumers, but at the same time it does not impose too heavy a burden on the sector and does not unduly distort market forces. We believe that the draft law maintains a good balance between consumer protection and free market forces, and we therefore fully support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you for joining us. We can understand that the agenda is special since, at the same time as the plenary session, eight committees are meeting this afternoon. We can give the impression that few Members are present in plenary, but work is being done in parallel and the minister cannot be in two places at the same time. However, in view of the importance of this project, you will agree, Mr Minister, that it is nevertheless good that we can be together in plenary to be able to talk about it, that you can hear the speeches of colleagues, even if some of the majority have already spoken. I welcome the fact that you have joined us, which still seems quite normal to me. You know that, for the PS, the consumer protection specialist is our colleague Mrs Karine Lalieux, but she could not cut herself into four this afternoon either. So I was appointed by the group to do this. This allows me to get out of the role of president to remain neutral. Here, I have a freedom of expression that I will use, Minister, I am already warning you. Finally, this file is quite voluminous. It doesn't have many articles, but with the appendices, it's 500 pages. This is an important issue, the transposition of a European directive of April 2014, that is, two years ago. We had time to do it, and then, when we reach the limit, it becomes urgent and we have to do it quickly. There has nevertheless been some disappointment in our group because the majority is not ready to do a thorough job and hold the few hearings requested. This was rejected by vote and we received only a large amount of notice in the last minute, which was added to the 500 pages of the file. It's not an annoyance. But it is true that Parliament is not simply a forum for the endorsement of a well-packed project on which nothing could be said. We still hope for a thorough work. That was not the case here. We regret it. Beyond the hearings, we regret that the majority has not been opened to certain constructive amendments by the opposition, in particular by the Socialist Group, on such a fundamental project for our citizens. Overall, we should be satisfied. Finally, this directive is moving in the right direction and its transposition into national law should welcome us. This should be a clear step forward for the consumer in terms of information and advice. At the end of this transposition, the consumer should finally have at his disposal the tools necessary to compare offers and make competition play out. As for lenders, their liability should be strengthened in relation to the credit check of the borrower candidate. Unfortunately, the reading of the text before us leaves us with too little taste, not to say that it disappoints us very clearly. Very regularly, Ms.Lalieux considers consumer protection to be the last of the government's last concerns. I'm saying it for her. I am the spokesman for Mrs Lalieux and for the PS Group, and I also say it with conviction, Mr Minister, being freed here from my neutrality as chairman of the committee. After the adoption of this project, the consumer will eventually not be much better informed than it is at present and mobility will not be fundamentally improved, given that this project perpetuates the practice of the annexed contracts, on which I will return. Let us say right away that the Directive specifically provided for the possibility for a Member State to maintain or introduce more stringent provisions than those contained in the Directive, in order to avoid hampering the high level of consumer protection. Unfortunately, a real opportunity has not been seized by the government. So, what should be seen in your project? The government is effectively using the flexibility given by the Directive at the transposition level, not to strengthen consumer rights but to relax certain obligations of lenders. This is the case for the essential measures of the Directive, namely the obligation to provide information and the TAEG (total effective annual rate). In addition, with regard to the ancillary contracts, which we have discussed quite well and which have a considerable impact on the mobility capacity of consumers, I would like to give you a few points. While bound contracts are specifically prohibited by the Directive, the government nevertheless authorises bundled contracts. The shade is very subtle but it lies in the possibility for the consumer to terminate when he wants the ancillary products. But there's theory and there's practice. There's a world in between! In any case, the consumer will be in a position of weakness vis-à-vis the lender, as the government still allows the lender to increase the customer's credit rate, which would be overtly competitive. It is the world backwards in the philosophy of this government! We are rather puzzled about this philosophy. The consumer will therefore not be better armed but, on the contrary, he will be less well armed and he will always be feet and fists tied to a lender who will, we are sure, force him to enter into a series of ancillary contracts, as is often the case today. In short, we looked forward to this transposition, since the creation of this government. We had a great deal of hope and we sincerely hoped that the directive would be exploited to the fullest extent in order to protect the consumer. The role of public authorities is to protect the consumer. Our disappointment is proportional to the time we have waited for this bill. Finally, it is in line with this government's general philosophy of strengthening business rights to the detriment of consumer rights. Our group will abstain. In substance, we are moving in the direction of the European directive, but we have too little taste, we have disappointments. We think this is a missed opportunity. Minister, I want to say to you, "can do better!"
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u82	Mr Delizee, I do not quite understand some of your comments. You say that consumer protection does not go far enough. I don't understand what you think the Minister should have done more. The ESIS document lists all costs associated with a mortgage. That document will be delivered to the consumer before he even makes a binding signature. What more can one do than deliver all the available information in a clear and clear way? We can discuss the bundled sale for hours to come. Of course, that is what happened in committee. If before that there was really a business case with interesting rates, why doesn't any bank offer that today and why aren't there any customers on it? The possibility of going into it exists today. So I think the Minister has presented a very balanced text here. A number of points could have gone further towards consumers, but according to the Directive a number of other points could also have gone further towards banks. There is no increase in the reinvestment fee, however, as requested by the sector. Let us not forget that either. I believe that the text is very balanced. Of course, it is your duty to point out things that you do not like, but saying that the text is not balanced is not a correct representation of things.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u83	I see that the solidarity of the majority is very present in this case and I take note of it, but everyone can have a point of view. What could have been done better? As I said, don't come in the last minute. Take the time of a deep debate and agree, for example, to hear a few actors on the ground before forming an opinion. That is a general remark. We made an opening with amendments that placed the cursor on the consumer's side. They were rejected by the majority; I would ask you, in answer to your question, to reread the content of our amendments. I have indicated, for the PS Group, our comments on the ancillary contracts. We could have done better by showing more openness in a consumer debate and not in favour of a majority versus opposition split. If you reread the content of Mrs Lalieux's amendments for the PS Group, you will have the answer to your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u84	Mr. Speaker, I will be quite brief about this bill because a lot has already been said. This very long text, which was given to us during the committee's work, in a very short period of time, contains a great deal of parameters. It also contains improvements in consumer and customer law. It's not all to sweep away from the back of your hand, far from there. Having said that, I will concentrate on the next point. Both in committee and today, we have been very critical and we will continue to be critical of it. In view of the protection, rights and protection of the consumer and the customer, the possibility of concluding a joint offer on mortgage credit remains. Why do we focus on this in such a way? Discussions during the Economy Committee focused on this point. Why is it so important? Many citizens are involved. All young households, all middle-class citizens, regardless of their region, are affected. It is well known that the consumer is looking for the lowest possible interest rate, and that it is always according to this target that he sets his choice between the various bank offers. It probably does not always pay sufficient and necessary attention to ancillary contractual obligations. It is only then that one realizes that one is stuck in a fire insurance, home or other. I experienced this a year ago, like many of you more or less recently. That is why it is so fundamental, because it is linked to the daily lives of most of our fellow citizens. I think that here, all of us want a maximum of our citizens to become owners. I am really surprised that there was no more openness on the part of the government, particularly on the various amendments tabled and supported. Frankly, beyond the majority-opposition divides, it is a bottom-up objective shared by all. I have heard that you have paid attention to the opinions of Test-Achats or the National Union of Independents and other field associations but that you have not been able to satisfy them all. But all are opposed to the options you have preferred. They all denounce the fact that there is a real difficulty on this point. It's even more amazing. Again, there are interesting elements to this text. That is why, overall, we will abstain from this bill. But I wanted to reiterate that, as far as consumer protection is concerned, we could quite frankly have done better and been more flexible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u85	Mr Vanden Burre, I have a very long experience in the sector. I can assure you by heart that the time has really passed that customers only asked for the rate of their mortgage and that all kinds of costs could be added. The consumer has learned a great deal. Of course, we must continue to work on the financial education of our citizens, because such practices may still be applied. You say that all the opinions in committee raised that point. I must contradict you; a number of opinions were formally opposed. By the way, if we formally ban tying, there is one certainty, namely that mortgages will be more expensive. Anyone who buys several products from the same seller will receive a discount. That works for car dynamometers, for bananas and also for financial products. So we have to be very sensible. I call on the sector to draw up a business case and make as interesting an offer as possible without bundled sales. We'll see how many customers respond effectively. Eventually the customers count their costs together, before they make a decision. I know that from the practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u86	We have one thing in common that I did not suspect, Mr Klaps: we both worked in the banking sector. In my case, it was with the SMEs. So I also know the sector. Here, it's always the same reasoning. Who is targeted by this kind of consumer information? Probably the most fragile and modest consumers in our society. I have no doubt that there is a whole section of the population that has no problem with appendices and contracts. But again, consumer protection and the role of the legislator is to protect the most modest, the least well-informed of us. It is for these people, as a matter of priority, that this kind of provision is important. As to whether, according to the statistics, people are more attentive than before, I don't know. I simply think that, on the part of the legislator, it is normal for us to pay particular attention to this kind of thing. Again, you used the same argument in committee: chewing gums, bananas, coupled sales in other sectors. I think it's a very special sector. Therefore, it cannot be compared with other coupled sales in other sectors. I do not think you will convince me of the soundness of this part of the text. We could have done better. Between the total ban and what is in the text, there may be a way to do something else. We regret that you have not been better on this part of the text with the aim of having better information and consumer protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u87	Mr President, it is true that this is a very important bill that will have an impact on the daily lives of many people in Belgium. We have drafted this bill very quickly and also submitted it to the committee as soon as possible. Mr Delizée said that this text may have been approved too quickly and that we have not had the opportunity to discuss it, etc. That may be true, but we have tried, not just the chairman of the committee, to invite all the organisations to submit their opinions. I have spoken not only with the members of the committee, but also with many organisations, to know their views and comments. I have noted that many proposals and remarks by Test-Achats or other organisations have also been made in the debate that took place in the committee. I would like to emphasise that, given the timing, we have dealt with things in a very efficient way here and, thanks to the chairman of the committee, we have also obtained all the opinions from all the organisations involved. I would, of course, like to thank all the speakers who spoke in plenary. I also think that the debate in committee has been very extensive. Mr Klaps, you know the sector very well, and you rightly pointed out in this House the importance of the problems of houseboats, bundling and compensation. Mr Friart, you also mentioned other aspects concerning intermediaries, etc. You also stressed the importance of the royal decree. I have already said in committee that it is obvious that I will send the royal decree to committee as soon as possible. Mrs Smaers, you have rightly highlighted a number of elements. The draft law, which I hope will be adopted later, is important. It is clear that we have also taken account of the consumer, and that we have also taken account of the practical treatment and implementation. Mr Delizée, as chairman, you have tried to convince all members of the committee to work as quickly as possible. Thank you. I understand that your position is a little different. For you, the balance will not be the same as the balance that is in the project. I respect your position. We tried to create a level playing field. That is what we are asking to approve or not. Mr Vanden Burre, I have already given arguments concerning the consolidated contracts. As regards the bundled sale, Mr Klaps has already referred to the fact that a number of stakeholders would have liked the bill to also impose restrictions on the bundled sale or oblige the creditor to grant the discounts over the entire duration, even if the consumer would change insurer. We have considered this very carefully. After consultation with the various stakeholders, it was decided not to follow that line of thinking. I have put forward four arguments in committee as to why we are not doing so. Mr Klaps referred to this once again from his practical experience. I also said that we are following everything very closely. If problems arise, we will face them. In this way, an important draft law will certainly give consumers a new dynamism in practice, especially if you look at the ESIS and fully inform them of the problem in advance. We give the consumer sufficient elements to make a decision in a sensible and fully informed way. I would like to thank all Members, both from the majority and from the opposition, for the constructive discussion on this draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u88	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u89	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1685/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1685/4) The draft law contains 45 articles and an annex. The bill has 45 articles and one annex. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u90	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u91	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u92	Mr President, I refer to the written report. Will you allow me to speak immediately on behalf of my group?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u93	You referred to the written report, for which I thank you, and I give you the floor in the general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on asylum and migration, which was discussed in committee a few weeks ago, contains, in addition to a number of technical adjustments, a number of important changes to our legislation on asylum and migration. With the present draft, therefore, the government continues its drive to make legislation less flexible and adapt it to the new, current and past realities. In this legislature, design after design, the quasi-open door policy of the past is being removed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to highlight a number of measures which, according to our group, are most important in this draft law. Firstly, anyone who is given the right of residence or establishment on the basis of fraud does not belong here. The mere fact that people commit fraud shows that they have come here with bad and wrong intentions. The old adagium fraus omnia corrumpit already offered us the opportunity to do something about it, but the fact that this adage is now also included as a general principle in the foreign law should make it possible for no one to slip through the loopholes of the net. If you commit fraud, you're out. That is simple and clear, both for the applicant and for the population, who do not accept that liars would be given the right to stay in the country. Next, the huge influx of foreigners and more specifically refugees we have known in 2015 poses many challenges. One of these is safety in the reception centres. Both the providers of care, the different partners and the trade unions themselves, are requesting parties to allow searches in closed centres, in order to ensure security and law enforcement. For the sake of clarity, this is about people sitting in closed centres, for example, about offenders or addicts. Another challenge included in the draft law is the provision of shelters for vulnerable groups. For our group, this is also a very important measure, an implementation of what was agreed in the coalition agreement. The design also offers a solution to this problem, in particular by extending the minimum period for people to stay in a collective reception structure. This period shall be extended from four to six months. In this way, individual care is reserved as far as possible for vulnerable groups, for pregnant women, single women and disabled persons. That's an agreement made in the coalition agreement. It is also good to see that the Secretary of State combines his powers for Asylum and Migration and for Administrative Simplification. The rules governing notification of decisions shall be adapted. It will now be possible to communicate the notification of decisions to stay or orders to leave the territory, as well as all types of decisions to be notified, by registered letter. This means a huge reduction in the administrative burden for both police and municipal authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is clear that the Secretary of State and with him the entire Swedish coalition is blowing a new wind through the whole asylum and migration story. This has been the case for some time, and with this draft law containing various provisions, we are continuing this momentum. That trend break we absolutely must continue in the coming years, the population expects nothing less from us. That is why our group will vote in favour of this bill tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u95	Mr President, before I even talk about the substance of the proposals before us, I would like to take up a pressing and repeated request from the field. As legislators, we must stop accepting amendments to the 1980 Act every two months. Indeed, doing justice requires some stability in the legal framework. It is not conservatism, therefore, but stability. This is why it is important that practitioners of the law of foreigners, both on the side of applicants and of the administration, be able to work in serenity and not on ever-changing legal bases. To constantly change the law as is currently the case, we will end up having no right at all! In addition, the government's agreement announces the codification of the law. This is a useful and positive step, but although working groups have been announced on this subject, we return to the myth of Sisyphus forever pushing his rock. Thus, if we continue to modify the texts at this rate, we will never see this work succeed. I am not saying that the texts should not be changed, and the government obviously has the opportunity to do so, but it is important to do so seriously and not every two months, whenever one or the other feels that a communication operation would be welcome. You are well aware that, in general, this text does not inspire my group's enthusiasm. It is of course a matter of tightening, once again, the conditions for access to the territory. Pardon me for repeating this, but every two months we do the same sausageing of an approach which, if presented to us with one mind, would expose all its hardness, to the point that it would be difficult for some members of the majority to support it. Yet I have the feeling that we are going even further this time. I even hope that we are going too far in the eyes of some of you. We are faced with the illustration of a society called his wishes by Bart De Wever, a society in which asylum as we know it no longer exists. Thus, ironically speaking, several amendments are based on the Schengen Regulation. The aim of this report is to facilitate the abolition of internal borders in an area which Mr Franken's government is helping to weaken by closing them. It is not, of course, to you that we must remember that our country, Flanders for those who see it as their only homeland, derives its wealth from its openness to the world, not only to the European economic area but to the world. Everything that hinders freedom of movement, and therefore trade, does not strengthen us. This does not contribute to the protection of well-being, which would be too rare to be shared with those who were not favored by chance by a birth in one of our countries. On the contrary, it stifles what you present as the very source of this well-being. Moreover, it is not even a matter of setting up a chosen immigration. There is nothing in this matter that would leave porous borders for the benefit of the most qualified that our economy would need. Even these highly skilled workers would be pushed back to the borders on the basis of this project if they had health concerns, which we could no doubt treat effectively in our territory in a win-win approach, to take up an expression from the Prime Minister. I would also stress the unreasonable extension of the principle that any fraud would result in the cancellation of a residence permit or any right resulting from it. The author of the draft explains that there is no specific definition of what is a determining factor in the issue of the status title. It could have met its objective by drawing up a list of such elements. No, I don't! Any fraud is considered decisive at the outset and justifies the abolition of open rights, but not only! It is still necessary to place the weight of the fault on the possible family, in particular the children of the infamous fraudster and the right to live with the family, enshrined in Article 8 of the European Court of Human Rights, can always be exercised elsewhere, which is a complete reversal of the very spirit of this article. My group is concerned about the CD&V's opinion on this matter. Does he intend to support a provision of this order? What about the end-of-stay provision for persons present on the territory by virtue of an emotional bond, a link that would break apart? Consideration should at least be given to the reasons which led to the disappearance of the link. That is precisely the purpose of my colleague Nawal Ben Hamou's proposal, which we are several to have co-signed. There may be excellent reasons to put an end to this link which opens up the right of residence, but to strengthen the attitude of the State towards those, or rather those, because it is often women who are the subject of this type of situation, it is simply putting their lives at risk. In this regard, we are shocked, I would like to remind you. I would like to appeal to Mrs Lanjri. You have repeatedly announced a proposal that you want to table as an alternative to our text. Are you thinking about such provisions? Is that the message you wanted to send to migrant women who are victims of domestic violence? We still need to talk about two elements. The first concerns the measures you wish to take in closed centres. I still have in my ears the crazy denial imposed by almost all the parties of the previous majority on those who said that "closed centres are prisons". No, we have never considered closed centres as prisons because we have never considered the residents of these centres as offenders. International law is quite clear in this respect: finding oneself in an irregular situation cannot under any circumstances be regarded as a crime. But now this government decides to expel undocumented offenders. And now they find that these people are in a closed centre before they are expelled and that their presence in the centres justifies the government to tighten the rules governing these centres, at this stage in search, in the name of the protection of public order. The internal functioning of closed centres has been modified to introduce methods that are governed by prison regulations. What is the next step? The fact that they are required to apply prison-type regulations to protect public order means that people who reside in a closed centre are considered dangerous. Unfortunately, the loop is closed. On this point, we question ourselves. Because, at last, who are we talking about here? Are they ordinary prisoners who are expelled while serving their sentences? If so, in the name of what are these persons transferred from their place of detention to a closed centre? The real danger to public order would be that a government would begin to remove detainees from their places of detention for an indefinite period of time without it being in the context of prison leave or one of the cases provided for. If this majority considers it normal to expel an inmate during his sentence, I do not see what would prevent him from making a transfer from the place of detention to the airport at the very time of the flight planned for the deportation. Unless it is for this government to carry out an artificial reduction of the prison population at the expense of the rights of other residents of closed centres, I think it is completely absurd not to carry out the transfer of the prison to the airport. Unless they are persons who have served their sentences and are evicted as an adjunct sentence, of which Ms. Smeyers spoke. We're walking on our heads. If these people have served their sentence, by definition society no longer considers them as potential dangers to their public. That is the very basis on which our judicial system is based. It is the very foundation of what legitimizes the prison system. The person who has served his sentence is no longer considered a danger to society. This person returns to being a justiciable like all the others. We don't stick a police officer on her back or the Sûreté to monitor her actions as if she were a threat. But here we are talking about foreigners in an irregular situation. Would we be legitimate to treat them differently? No! The same rules must be applied to all persons or whatever is done in the area of justice and prison policy no longer makes any sense. All we can say about the reintegration and the role of the prison is a lie. Is that the philosophy you support in the majority? However, if we push it to the end, it is the logic of this provision. One last point is the extension of the stay in collective reception and the restrictions on access to an individual or family reception. Colleagues, individual reception is most likely to encourage the integration of candidates, whether they like it or not, who are most likely to obtain a residence permit in order to stay on our territory for a long time. Collective reception is more costly at the human level and to some extent from a financial point of view. Our views on this subject diverge with some parties of the majority, they draw closer to others who will support all these provisions. Of which act! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u96	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft before us today is necessary to make a number of changes that are necessary on the basis of the case law of the Constitutional Court, but also on the basis of European directives. For example, the amendments to articles on family reunification for Belgians. To this end, it is now quite clearly provided in the legislation that Belgians who use freedom of movement are subject to a different regime, namely the one applicable to EU nationals. Normally, family reunification must be subject to strict conditions regarding income, housing and the like, as laid down in our 2011 law. However, when it comes to Belgians who first made use of free movement, they are covered by the other rules, just like other Europeans. They have an income to prove, but that is another scheme. That has now been clarified. I admit that a number of things certainly need to be improved. We also discussed this in committee. We have pointed out, among other things, that we still have to apply a number of refinements to the law on family reunification, for example for expats. Think of a Belgian national who does development cooperation abroad, as the woman of his life encounters and then moves back to Belgium. At that time, of course, he has difficulties showing that he has an income in Belgium. For such situations there is still need to be adjustments to the law. I am therefore pleased that it was agreed yesterday in committee that we will certainly be holding hearings in the near future in order to find out what shortcomings or problems we can improve in the law. In this respect, Mr Kir, I do not understand why you keep saying that you are waiting for Mrs Lanjri's proposal on intra-family violence. You will find everything on the internet. That bill to which you refer, and which you ask when it will be tabled, I have already submitted more than a year ago. I'll give you the number now: No. 992/001, on the date of 26 March 2015. So, over a year ago. So, Mr Kir, it is now listed in the report. With regard to the Reception Act, the draft law also states that the four-month period now laid down in the law may be increased to six months after which a transfer from a collective reception to a local reception initiative (LOI) may be requested. We have no problem with that in principle, but we do ask the Secretary of State to make explicit work on what we agreed in the coalition agreement. For us, these two matters are important. I know there's been a crisis and we're dealing with an increased influx. It hasn't always been easy, especially in recent months. In the coalition agreement, we agreed that the lead time of the files should be on average six months. That is what the crisis has caused. However, we ask that every effort be made to move with additional staff as quickly as possible towards six months, especially now that the influx has dropped slightly in recent months. We can't let that go up to one year and more. I visited yesterday at a shelter in Antwerp on Linkeroever. There people spend an average of a year in the shelter and a number even longer. It is important to keep that deadline as short as possible and to try to bring it back to six months, as we agreed in the coalition agreement. As a result, we can better manage the reception capacity and not continue to create additional places. Furthermore, it was agreed in the government agreement that vulnerable groups, including families with children, single women and hole-babies, and people whose chances of recognition are very high, should preferably be included in LOIS. That is also the question of many local authorities. People who are taken into a LOI are hopefully people whose chances are high that they can stay because they are already taking effective steps in the field of integration. It seems logical to me that Fedasil makes a very good selection between people who are previously redirected to LOIS and those who belong earlier in collective centres, for example people from countries with a low degree of recognition.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u97	Mr President, I would like to reply to Mrs Lanjri. I have received confirmation of the submission of a text in relation to women who are the subject of domestic and intrafamillial violence. I hope that we will be able to debate this issue in a forthcoming Committee on the Interior. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this Government has extended the period of review of the situation of the joined Government from three to five years. It took an even more restrictive step in the review period. Here we come with a text that does not bring any improvement on these situations of domestic or domestic violence. I hope that we will be able to come together in the Committee on the Interior and make an improvement because there are so many women who leave their husbands for just reasons; they are in danger of life. I regret, in the text tabled by Mr Franken, that there is no answer to this type of situation. However, exchanges have already taken place during the previous legislature. I would like to give us an appointment in a debate in the Committee on the Interior to come back to this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u98	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make three comments on three areas of uncertainty or contradictions in the present draft law. Firstly, Mr Secretary of State, you have often repeated that you have ensured that the government acts quickly and efficiently in the areas of asylum and migration and in the creation of volume to deal with people. Mrs Smeyers is also regularly used to say that thanks to a huge trend break everything is going so much better, especially better than among the previous drivers. However, this attitude contrasts with the relatively long history, about nine months, of the draft law. It was approved by the Council of Ministers on 10 July 2015. The opinion of the Council of State was requested four days later and was received about two months later. However, the draft law was only submitted to the Chamber of Representatives on 2 March 2016. So that's a nine-month period, but maybe you're into pregnancy. Secondly, you have the ambition to achieve a fast lead time. You have always stressed very strongly in the previous administrative period that asylum applications had to be dealt with quickly and that the candidate had to get a well-founded answer to his asylum application very quickly. I can, of course, agree with that. Actually, I think so, too. I think that a government that works well should quickly answer people's questions. At the same time, the Secretary of State communicates to the outside world that it takes one and a half years for an answer to the asylum question to follow. Perhaps I misunderstood, but I suspect that the Secretary of State will be able to explain very well the difference between his ambition, with demands he has made to others and himself, and the communication that is being made about it. We also discussed this yesterday in committee. I think the answer to that question is of particular importance. After all, it means that the reception concept and hence the regulations of the federal government are closely linked to the lead time. A lead time of one and a half years is three times as long as the stated ambition of six months. Of course, this has a huge impact, including on managing the situation, the reception capacity and the number of employees. If there is no contradiction, I am of West-Flemish origin and there one says it so, then one speaks with double tongue and plays double play. Thirdly, I also said in committee that I have absolutely no problem with a number of provisions in the draft law, such as the incorporation of the Schengen Borders Code into national legislation or the alignment of the family reunification control period. The measures relating to fraud or the search of persons must, of course, also be placed in the difficult and exceptional asylum context. But it's either one or the other. If the situation is very exceptional today, the question arises as to whether the law should be fundamentally amended. It can also be concluded that this is an exceptional situation, which will, however, last for a very long time. Then it is admitted that the influx of candidate refugees will drag on for a very long time, and then there is a need to adapt the legal framework. But other measures are also pressing for such measures as reception capacity and integration capacity. In this connection, you refer to the powers of the Regions and the Communities. I think about education and housing. Let me warn you once again: if we do not deal better with this, we will create the ground for radicalisation over the next 20 years. You constantly say that this is not for you, but for the Regions and the Communities. I would just like to point out that the same parties are in all these governments and that they would do well to raise that issue. I suspect you're talking to your colleagues. Finally, I would also like to comment on the burden of proof for the Foreign Affairs Office in the field of fraud. Should fraud be of decisive importance? Actually, they're getting rid of that. For example, a passport that has expired can be considered fraud. This will enable the residence permit to be abolished. How are the new rules interpreted? From what point did the fraud committed contribute? Will this be the case, for example, if a passport is used with which there is a problem? If you do not have a passport, is that better than a passport that has expired? Would it be better to throw away his passport? A fraudulent residence permit should be able to be withdrawn, with all the consequences, a measure with which I have no problem whatsoever. What bothers me very much, however, is the lack of clarity about the period of time. How long ago must the fraud have happened? How far do we want to go back in time? Suppose in a family whose children were born here, they built their lives here, they went to school here, one of the parents committed fraud. Then what do you do with the children? Will you take into account the importance of the children? Will you respect the children's rights we support? Will you send children born here who have been here for example seven years of school, almost half of their childhood, back to a country where they have never been and of which they do not know the language? In fact, I find that very uncomfortable. I therefore do not understand why a party such as CD&V, which in many cases stands up for children's rights, for respect for children, even for the respect for unborn children, insists that these children can be returned after seven years, even though they have nothing to do with the whole thing. The weakest in such cases are punished. I have a very difficult time with that, all the more so because after seven years the sponge is being wiped over tax fraud. Besides, it's not always black and white when asylum seekers commit fraud. Sometimes people lie about their nationality to enter the country and guarantee their children a different future. Mr Secretary of State, you will argue that all dossiers, which are examined individually, will be considered, and the principle of proportionality will play a role, as the lawyers say. Do we have to rely now and forever on the strength, understanding, energy to look at a dossier in a balanced way? We are not guaranteed to do so. I have tabled an amendment to make a very explicit exception in view of the best interests of the child. If the fraud happened seven years ago, there is statute of limitations when children are involved. In the meantime, I have concrete experience in such dossiers. Mrs Lanjri has also asked for hearings on family reunification to be organised. Some children are victims themselves. I don't want to feed the men who raise a child here, just to get residence papers. What will one do with that child? Any more sanctions? It happens quite frequently. I think we should build in a guarantee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u99	There are no other speakers. I give the floor to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u100	Mr Kir, you have forgotten one little thing about what you said in committee. I quote the report: "Several amendments are based on the Schengen Regulation, which, it should be recalled, aims to facilitate the abolition of internal borders in an area which this government is helping to weaken by closing borders to stop a phantom threat to the tourist season of the establishments". You said that in committee, but it was before March 22. Now you haven't repeated it! You have resumed exactly the same intervention but you have not repeated this! Luckily... Speak to the tourist establishments! Talking about a ghost threat is a little...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u101	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u102	That's just a first comment. It's easy to tell. As far as the content is concerned, Mr Kir, what you are saying about the fact that there are no offenders in closed centres, I invite you to visit them, and I invite you to speak with the management and staff. There is even a special wing in Vottem for very serious cases. The target group this government wants to repatriate is the delinquents! It is not correct to say that there are no offenders in closed centres! I never said that all the undocumented people in the closed centres were criminals. The reality is a little more nuanced.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u103	Mr Secretary of State, you have read the report of the committee in which we were talking about the coast. I'm not going to go back to that. It has never been said that there is no danger to our country in this context of terrorism that everyone knows. My group never considered that there was no danger. Don't mix it up, I didn't allow myself to worry about it. I never said there were no offenders in the closed centres. I explain that you want to practice double punishment. In the way you see things, you constantly imply that crimes are committed by foreigners or those in closed centres. That's what I put forward, but I didn't say there were no offending situations in the closed centres. What shockes us is that we are in a rule of law. Justice takes on its responsibilities and after the sentence, the person is no longer considered an offender. She's done her job of repairing society. Those who committed a crime in our country, you want to send them back. There, we do not agree with you because you want to practice double punishment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u104	Mr Kir, it is interesting to have the report. As a parliamentarian, you have heard the freedom to change it, but for now you are literally saying that: "The residents of these centres are not indeed criminals." It's your intervention!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u105	You said it yourself!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u106	In Dutch it was translated as "the residents of these centres are not offenders." I'm just saying... What I'm saying is, it's not true. The reality is much more nuanced. And when the FGTB asks for searches in closed centres, it's because there are offenders in the centres. That's the truth! It is a demand of the trade union front in Belgium to reintroduce the excavations in closed centres. Searches already exist. Indeed, staff can search when people arrive, or when they went to the embassy for example or to the diplomatic post in Brussels to obtain one or the other document. This was not possible during the stay in the center. It is therefore necessary to reintroduce a situation that has existed for decades. Under previous governments, it was possible to search. The trade union front is asking to reintroduce it. You say it's amazing. It's always been like this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u107	Mr. Franken, you take a little phrase and tell stories. Now let's tell the real story. I'll read what I said again. We have never considered closed centres as prisons because we have never considered the residents of these centres as offenders. International law is clear in this regard. Being in an irregular situation cannot under any circumstances be considered a crime. That's the big difference between you and us! You consider someone in an irregular situation to be an offender. Mr Franken, international law is not with you. You want to write another history of international law. She doesn't exist. That is why I made this statement. But take a little word off and say I said there were no offenders... There are all kinds of situations throughout society. This may exist in closed centres as it may exist in a youth home. Everywhere. Mr. Franken, don't play this game! Do not try to mix up all the time, play big arms and give the impression that in this Parliament we are lax and that you bring discipline. Before you were here, this country worked. Rules were applied. Do not give the impression that before you, there was laxism, that you have arrived now and that we are in a rule of law. You have to apply the law. International law is clear in this regard. It is not because someone is in an irregular situation that he is an offender. Hold him!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u108	Mr. Kir, I never said that. Do you not think that the Council of State would break this, if it were contrary to international law? The Council of State made no comment on this. That's how it used to be. Excavations were possible for staff during the detention of detainees in closed centres. It was possible. To say that international law is against what I propose is not fair. When you say that searching is a prison regime, it's not fair. What we are proposing is not the search, and I am going to say it in Dutch. Dat is of kledij op excavations. It is not the same regime as legal searches in prisons. It's about fouilles on the clothes. It's not... The legal fouille is not what we are proposing here. I have answered that question three times in committee. It is not the same regime as in prisons. That's not true. It's a whole different regime. So saying over and over again that I want to make the closed centers into prisons is not right. You want to make the closed centres look like prisons. That's not fair. This is intellectually incorrect. I come to Mrs Lanjri's questions on integration, the LOIs and the lead time. As regards the LOIS, the lead time goes from four months to six months. For us, it remains important to keep the lead time at six months. I said that in committee too. Mrs. De Coninck, you say it doesn't make sense and you can't follow anymore. I'll explain it to you again. At present, we do not always reach the six-month lead time because the inflow has increased in such a way that the services cannot follow. I admit that honestly, and there's nothing wrong with that either. The same is happening in the Netherlands, Austria, Germany, France and almost any other European country outside Portugal and Spain. We can't follow. However, we have taken action and recruited 173 staff for the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless. They do the interviews and deal with the files. More than sixty additional staff were recruited from the Foreign Affairs Office. This recruitment goes through Selor and therefore takes some time. So we can't do that on one, two, three. Fortunately, Fedasil is moving very quickly, because it is an agency with its own recruitment policy. It's faster than Selor's. You know that as a former minister. All that takes its time. If you have to deal with six to seven thousand dossiers a month and you take an average of 1 300 decisions a month, it means that you get three to four months late each month. That means we have to refuel. We need to recruit extra staff. Those people need training. In this way we can reach more than two thousand decisions, as in the last month. We go to 2 500 decisions a month. Mrs Lanjri, there will be an additional reinforcement at the CGVS to keep up with the delays. It reminds me that I did go for an average period of six months. That was indeed the absolute ambition. I hope that the six-month deadline will be reached again by the end of my term of office. However, the events of recent months have failed to do so. The lead time has systematically grown. Now we're catching up again. Let us hope that we can get the lead time back to six months as soon as possible. The shorter, the better! It costs less, it is better for the refugees and it is better for our society. You certainly don't have to convince me that we need to get the lead time down again. One cannot, of course, break iron with hands. If suddenly eight thousand asylum seekers are on the doorstep at a month's notice, one cannot follow. Then it takes a certain inertia period to catch up. That makes sense. Just give us a little more time, and hopefully we'll be able to catch up. Asylum seekers with a high degree of recognition should definitely be included in LOIs. But that too has not always been possible in recent months. I was glad I could offer everyone a bed. We weren't so picky and it wasn't the time to be. We offered everyone a bed, if there was one free. As a result, 250 refugees from a safe country according to the list are currently in a LOI. I've known that since last week. I have now instructed Fedasil to get them out as soon as possible, because that cannot be the intention. But it was either that, or throw them out on the street. I think you agree with me that I better offer them a bed, even if it is in an OCMW's LOI, which does not really serve that purpose. Then it was rowing with the belts that we had; now we are gradually raising matters. That problem will also be resolved by the end of the month. We're working on that. Mrs De Coninck made a comment about the decisive importance of fraud. Indeed, the concept of "decisive importance" was removed from the draft, because there was a great deal of legal discussion about that concept. In any case, if there is fraud and a withdrawal follows on the basis of an assessment, on a case-by-case basis, of case-by-case basis, then the Council for Foreigner's Disputes will assess the gravity of the fraud. Proportionality must always be taken into account. We talked about this yesterday in committee. That is a fact, that is European justice, that must always be done. It also takes into account everything that has to do with family ties, children and long stays. You argue for a statute of limitations after seven years, such as tax fraud. I didn't even know that, but it's a good comparison. Just to be clear, when you were Minister, it was ten years. It wasn't your wallet, though. Personally, I am not in favour of a limitation period, but I do believe that there is a difference if there is or is not another burdensome element of public order. As Secretary of State, I also apply such a concept in the context of my discretionary powers. I believe that there is a difference between a fraud case that occurs after 10 or 15 years, where there are children and where there can be talk of perfect integration and an active contribution to society, and a case where there are also many objectionable elements. It is not about children, of course, but about parents and parental responsibility. If the children are of age and no longer live at home, they will not be repatriated, but they will be if they still live at home. This is also the right to family life on the basis of European case law, Article 8 or Article 9 of the ECHR. Even if the children are of age, if they still live at home, it is a repatriation of the family cell, no matter how wrong that can be found. I give the concrete example of a nurse in West Flanders. That is a very painful situation. She's 20 years old and she's doing really well in nursing school. After a number of years, the parents' fraud comes to light. I won't elaborate any further, because it's an individual case, but it was in the paper. Because she lived at home, there was no other way to return her; otherwise we could not repatriate anyone. You'd suggest we leave everyone at home. Let me say that the dossier contained sufficient elements to allow repatriation. That's all I'm gonna say. That's a very nasty case. I do believe that this can be an additional element, and I am applying it. That is my opinion on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u109	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u110	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1696/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1696/4) The draft law has 38 articles. The bill has 38 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u111	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u112	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Rules 33 and 35. Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 32, 34, 36 to 38.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u113	******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u114	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Eric Thiébaut, Laurent Devin, Nawal Ben Hamou, Willy Demeyer, Stéphane Crusnière, Gwenaëlle Grovonius. The Committee on External Relations proposes that this proposal be rejected. (989/3) The Committee on External Relations proposes to reject this bill. (989/3) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament expressed its views on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. The rapporteur, Mr Hellings, is not present. I give the floor to Mr Crusnière, one of the sponsors of the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u115	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in spite of the physical distance, Belgians living abroad retain an emotional link with our country, which is often very strong. In particular, they help to promote Belgium's image in the world and help to build bonds of friendship and solidarity with other Member States. This role and loyalty are important and deserve special attention from the Belgian State and, of course, also from our Assembly. However, practice has shown that, sometimes, Belgians living abroad encounter certain situations, certain specific problems in their relationship with the Belgian State and with the administration. I am thinking, among other things, of electronic ID cards, passports, etc. These problems require an ad hoc political response. That is why last July I tabled in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure a proposal to set up a committee of opinion for Belgians abroad in our House. He would have been responsible for relaying at political and parliamentary level the concerns of Belgians residing abroad, such as the subject dealt with by the text that my group is submitting to you today. I say "would" because, unfortunately, the majority rejected this text with a backhand. We have therefore tabled this text, albeit a technical one, which responds to a real problem faced by many Belgians abroad. The purpose of this draft law is to repeal paragraph 5 of Article 22, § 1 of the Belgian Nationality Code, which provides for the loss of nationality for certain categories of Belgians born abroad if they do not make a declaration of nationality between their 18th and 28th year. Although this text is technical, it is important for many foreign-born binationals who are automatically deprived of their Belgian nationality at the age of 28, for only one reason, because they did not know this legal provision of another time and whose consequences are heavy. Article 22, § 3, provided that such loss of nationality did not apply to Belgians who, by virtue of one of these provisions, would become stateless. In short, it only applied to Belgians with at least two nationalities. In the past, however, the loss of Belgian nationality for voluntary acquisition of another nationality has been eliminated from the Nationality Code. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, you will agree that the retention of paragraph 5 of Article 22(1) is no longer in line with the spirit of the law so amended in the past. Several cases and court decisions have also highlighted the difficulty of applying this little-known provision of the Code and the human tragedies that it is likely to generate. I would like to recall the position taken by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Reynders, who stated, during the examination of the draft general budget for expenditure for the 2016 budget year, that, with regard to a possible amendment to the Belgian Nationality Code, any administrative simplification would be welcome. This is one of them and I therefore do not understand the position of certain groups in this area. Moreover, the Federal Ombudsmen, in their note of 26 January 2016, stressed that the 2014 Annual Report already found an increase in the claims concerning the loss of nationality based on Article 22, § 1, 5e of the Belgian Nationality Code. They therefore confess that, for them, this increase is due to the disappearance of the possibilities actually offered by the Belgian Nationality Code to recover or acquire again, from abroad, Belgian nationality, following the entry into force of the Act of 4 December 2012 amending the Belgian Nationality Code in order to make the acquisition of Belgian nationality neutral from the point of view of immigration. Federal ombudsmen classify the situations in which they were seized into three groups: the first includes citizens who discover that they should have subscribed to the declaration of retention of nationality when they applied for a passport or renewal after their twenty-eighth birthday, or when requesting the return of their documents, and that the Belgian authorities refuse to do so. The second group includes those to whom the Belgian diplomatic or consular authorities have continued to issue Belgian identity documents beyond their twenty-eighth birthday and who are suddenly announced that they have lost Belgian nationality by failing to declare or retain nationality on that date. The third group brings together citizens who should not sign up for a declaration of nationality because they have no nationality other than Belgian nationality, but who fail to meet the requirements of proof of the absence of another nationality laid down by the SPF Foreign Affairs, and thus find themselves in a situation of statelessness. As you can see, these three cases that have been put forward by the mediators are certainly not anodizing. That is why I appeal once again to the House to be consistent in adopting this bill. It is not a political text, but a simple technical correction to be made to the Nationality Code in order to respond to a real difficulty experienced by many of our fellow citizens. In addition, this would lead to savings. In the current context, this is certainly not negligible. In committee, the majority rejected my text. The Minister's representative referred to the establishment of a working group to analyse this issue. I was hoping that Minister Reynders would be here, but the Secretary of State might be able to answer me. I would like to know what is the status of this working group and when we can hope to see it succeed. I will conclude by stressing this: while it is legitimate to ensure, when dealing with several generations of Belgian expatriates, that these people maintain a sufficient connection with our country, I believe that the declaration conferring nationality already provided for by law for a child born abroad seems to provide a sufficient and definitive guarantee of attachment to Belgium. We cannot take an absolute position of defending Belgians abroad without responding to such cases. I therefore hope, ladies and gentlemen, that, after reflection, and contrary to the vote in committee, I can count on your support, far from the majority-opposition divides, in order to answer a real question posed by our compatriots living abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u116	Thank you, Mr Crusnière. There's an interruption. Mrs Smeyers, this is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure do not provide for it, but an interruption must always be possible. I'll give you two minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u117	Mr President, I had the courtesy of having Mr Crusnière speak, I could have interrupted him and perhaps I would have been in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr Crusnière, this proposal is being dismissed as savings and administrative simplification, but it goes far beyond that, of course. It proves that the PS perseveres in its view on nationality, in which fortunately in recent years there has been a turnaround. You persist in anger, I think you live in a parallel universe. Your view of nationality as a piece of paper is confirmed by this proposal. The only thing Belgians have to do abroad is between 18 and 28 years old, so they have ten years to make a statement that they want to retain their nationality. And even that simple explanation, that only administrative act, you want to abolish. I really don't understand how you, in times like today, in which Uzbek billionaires can become Belgians avoiding taxes, in which criminals have become Belgians on the basis of the old fast-Belgwet, in which many current Muslim fundamentalists are products of that old fast-Belgwet, how you continue to stellar under such conditions and at such times your vision of that nationality, with this proposal. It is a rejection proposal and our group will be pleased to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u118	It is clear that our two groups will never agree on the vision of nationality. It's no secret to anyone! I do not understand your argument about escaping tax at all, but that does not surprise me. When I recalled your attitude when discussing this text in the Justice Committee, which we asked for an opinion from, I heard you say that it was not necessary for embassies or consulates to warn the people concerned by this decision. I find this scandalous and that is still in your logic of violating the means of the State and of Belgian nationality. That does not surprise me at all, and it reassures me that we do not agree with this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-plenair-ip105x.u119	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date. Here we conclude our work for today. Tomorrow, we will resume our work at 2:15 p.m. with the eulogy of former President Defraigne. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 14 April 2016, at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 14 April 2016 at 2.15 p.m.
