ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u1	Mr Minister, on 30 September 2016, the ACV published a brochure on the employability, taxation and remuneration of the military. This study was made in response to the high number of military achievements in the Homeland mission. The study of the ACV relies on official performance sheets of 29 soldiers from six different units. This shows that staff must perform more and more without limiting the number of hours and without remuneration for the performance actually performed. The flat-rate remuneration in time and money is absolutely inadequate and makes military workers cheap. In addition, they are obliged to carry out the tasks imposed without protest. The ACV calculated the workload over a whole year, from 1 January to 31 December 2015. The 29 soldiers were under control and command of the Defense Department for 80 892 hours. The division by an annual standard of 1 618 net hours to be performed per person based on a 38-hour week results in 50 full-time equivalents. These 29 soldiers therefore carry out tasks of 50 full-time equivalents. Military people have grown accustomed to the many hours and overtime over the years and complain little. It's their job. However, the Minister should not forget that the workload has increased again in the last year and a half. The workload of the military has reached an abnormally high level, with sometimes working weeks up to 80 hours. In this committee, together with other colleagues, I repeatedly asked questions about the remuneration, leave and working hours of the military who are operationally deployed for this mission. I insist because the balance between work, private and family is very important. Several media have already reported that military workers have applied for dismissal because of the workload or the increase in the number of divorces. The military in question will undoubtedly understand the additional workload caused by the increased threat of terrorism. Unfortunately, the situation has not been temporary for a long time. It seems that the extra performance has become the normal course of action. Personally, I believe that aid to the nation is an important task for the Defense Department. Nevertheless, I do not agree with the content of putting soldiers on the streets. Apart from the content, I absolutely also believe that military personnel deserve a certain level of protection. Until now, soldiers can be deployed endlessly and underpaid. This is absolutely not correct. In addition, the Prime Minister's State of the Union showed that the retirement age for military workers is being raised from 56 to 63 years. On the legal level, the ACV Defence noted that, as regards the organisation of working time in the public sector, Chapters 3 and 4 of the Law of 14 December 2000 do not apply to military personnel. On the other hand, the same law of 14 December 2000 provides for the establishment of a KB with minimum requirements to obtain a level of protection equivalent to that of other workers. Despite this article of law, we have to establish that there is no KB that provides an equivalent level of protection for working and rest time and for the night work of military personnel. Minister, I would have liked to have told you about the results of that study. I have the following questions for you. Did you receive the brochure from the ACV? What do you think of the findings of the study? What measures can you take? Are you prepared to prepare a KB that determines the degree of protection for military personnel?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u2	Madam President, Mr Top, on 12 October the ACV presented its study to my cabinet. During this meeting, the ACV raised three main concerns: the problem of flat-rate payment of benefits, the fact that no recovery hours can be built up during operational deployment and the problem of the lack of an annual maximum performance standard. As already stated in my reply at the committee meeting on 5 October, the ACV was informed that it is very difficult in the current budgetary framework to make room for an adjustment to the remuneration system without compensating elsewhere. The ACV proved to be well aware of this. As far as the problem of long and very heavy performance is concerned, I agree that some soldiers are expected to make a great deal of effort today. One solution to this is to optimise the distribution of tasks, as was already done by the defence staff. In addition, an increase in recruitment will also have an effect on the workload in the longer term. It was reported to the ACV that the study for further investigation would be transferred to the defence staff, which has been done in the meantime. The investigation by the defence staff is currently under way, after which I will meet with the defence staff and the ACV to discuss the results.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u3	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, but my concern, which I have already expressed in my introduction, remains as follows. Military personnel have a specific status anyway. When they start their career in Defense, they know what their assignments are, what is expected of them and what is on the other side. However, at the start of the Homeland operation and the assignments contained therein, there was evidence that this would be a temporary situation. In the meantime, it has been a year and a half since. If I am in favour, and some of my colleagues are probably not even aware of this, then last Monday, for the whole of the country, the threat level 3 was again declared. This indicates that we are still faced with a situation in which the military are likely to be on the streets for a longer period of time. This also indicates that it is necessary to pay a great deal of attention to the military, because the pressure on them is increasing. On behalf of the military and myself, I thank you for pointing out that attention is being paid to this and that you are working to optimise the distribution of tasks and workload. That is all correct, but the fact that the current situation remains that soldiers are being deployed for street security and are actually cheap guards, while others might as well be. As the police have insufficient staff and cannot carry out all of their tasks, the military are called upon. Hence our motion of recommendation. I do not want to make the link with the budgetary concerns, which is a negotiation you have to conduct with the trade unions. I would, however, like to table a motion for a recommendation asking for a royal decision to be taken on minimum health, working hours, recovery leave and overtime, which must be complied with. You have already met some of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u4	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Alain Top and Mr Sébastian Pirlot and by Ms Julie Fernandez Fernandez and reads as follows: "The Chamber, President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). and the reply of the Minister for Defence, with responsibility for Civil Service, asks the Minister of Defence undertake to establish a Royal Decree laying down minimum safety and health requirements for the organisation of working time and special provisions on night work. This Royal Decree must be adapted to the specific tasks to be performed by such workers and nevertheless ensures them a level of protection equivalent to that of the other workers envisaged by that law." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Messrs. Alain Top and Sébastian Pirlot and by Ms Julie Fernandez Fernandez and read as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Alain Top and the response of the Minister of Defence, in charge of the Public Service, asks the Minister of Defence to undertake that a royal decree be drawn up with a view to laying down the minimum safety and health requirements for the organisation of working time and the special provisions for night work. This royal decree must be adapted to the specific tasks entrusted to these workers and nevertheless guarantees them a level of protection equivalent to that of the other workers covered by this law. ' A simple motion was tabled by Mr Peter Buysrogge, Mr Damien Thiéry, Mr Tim Vandenput and Mr Veli Yüksel and Mrs Renate Hufkens. A simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Peter Buysrogge, Damien Thiéry, Tim Vandenput and Veli Yüksel and Mrs Renate Hufkens. Motions for resolutions will be voted on at a later date b. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u5	Madam President, may I comment on the simple motion?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u6	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u7	Our motion of recommendation is aimed at introducing minimum requirements and conditions, as laid down by law. The law says there's a KB to be issued. Since the introduction of the law, there has been no concrete implementation of the law over the various legislatures. The current situation, with soldiers on the streets, makes this urgent. I am particularly sorry that the majority does not even agree to the introduction of minimum requirements. I am very sorry about this!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u8	Mr Minister, Turkish President Erdogan said on 25 September that a military offensive was planned against the city of Mosul on 19 October. We are now in the middle of this offensive. Six hundred U.S. military personnel joined the northern part of the country for this purpose. Daesh's current offensive against the city raises concerns about the worst humanitarian and political consequences for the region's specialists. The American general Petraeus, who is not anyone in terms of knowledge of the region, said in this regard: "We do not clean an area when we do not know how to hold it". An official of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) believes, in an article published on the Middle East Eye website, that "it would be necessary to increase the rate of construction of refugee camps by ten times, but that will not happen. They refuse to listen to us." However, the ground military offensives of the Iraqi army and Kurdish militias, combined with the western air strikes, will undeniably provoke movements of essentially Sunni populations while the surrounding region is not prepared for these internal migrations to Iraq. The poor humanitarian planning of this battle is likely to further marginalise Sunnis, and thus to amplify again a phenomenon that is at the very root of Daesh's political emergence, namely this marginalization of Sunnis. On September 12, you said on Radio 1 that some 30 Belgian soldiers were travelling to northern Iraq to take part in an "action closest to the front line". Hence, minister, my four questions. Will our six F-16s currently engaged in Iraq and Syria participate in strikes on the densely populated area of Mosul? You answered on this point earlier, you do not have to repeat it. We saw where they were hitting. Are the Belgian military currently on mission in northern Iraq analysing the possibility of participating in cordoned programmes for the construction of refugee camps in the vicinity of Mosul? In the coalition, does Belgium insist on the other dimensions than the only military option in the capture of Mosul? Indeed, not predicting post-Daesh by resolving the problems inherent in its emergence - the marginalization of Sunnis - amounts to putting oil on fire. At what percentage level of engagement do you estimate the number of Sunnis taking part on the ground at the Battle of Mosul?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u9	Minister, there is a major offensive in progress to recapture Mosul at IS. The battle is mainly fought by Kurdish peshmerga, the Iraqi army, Shiite militias and some Sunni tribes. The international coalition supports the offensive. I have five questions about this, Minister. Firstly, we are interested to know to what extent our Belgian troops in that region are involved in that offensive from far or close range. Secondly, how is the offensive going at the moment? Can you estimate whether it will be successful and how long that operation will last? Thirdly, the press mentions many suicide attacks against the advancing troops. Can that indicate a weakened position of IS in the Mosul region? How do you estimate the residual strength of IS in the region? Fourthly, how significant is the counter-offensive of ISIS at Kirkuk, which we have been able to establish recently? Fifthly, what are the possible humanitarian consequences for the remaining population in Mosul? How will this be met, either by the international actors present on the ground, such as the NGOs, or by the Iraqis themselves?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u10	Madam President, Minister, I would like to ask you this day about the potential resumption of Mosul. We discussed this at length in camera at the Committee on the Monitoring of Operations Abroad. I suspect that your answer will be above all political, but it is precisely this one that interests me. As you know, the second city of Iraq is coveted by a large number of actors with the same enemy, Daesh, but each of whom has difficult to reconcile interests. Faced with the jihadists of Daesh, a great diversity of Iraqi and international fighters is engaged in the offensive that was launched on 16 October. Militia, tribes, military units with conflicting affiliations, neighbouring and distant foreign powers orbit the city. The potential liberation of Mosul could open up new hotbeds of tension and subsequent conflicts. However, not all the actors involved will play a direct role in fighting for the city's recovery. Minister, what is your view of the distribution of the roles of the forces involved: the Iraqi army, the Iraqi police, the Kurdish peshmergas, the Iranian forces, the Turkish forces, and, of course, the international coalition of which we are part? What will be Belgium's role in this context? How will this military action be coordinated with the diplomacy and humanitarian assistance to be provided to the civilian prisoners in this city?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u11	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Belgian F-16s are indeed involved in air strikes in the Mosul region. As Daesh's forward positions are still 34 km from Mosul city positions, fighting is mainly on clear terrain. The risk of tension generated by the simultaneous presence of parties with contradictory motivations is integrated into the development of the Mosul city's reconquest plan. Thus, the axes of attack were attributed to the different parties according to their geographical, historical footprint in the region. The conquest of Mosul is only one step in the plan of the international coalition. It is important to stress this. The formation of Iraqi military forces is one of the missions of the international coalition. The evaluation of this training is an integral part of an overall process. National processes are therefore not applicable. The majority of Belgian military personnel in Iraq are still in Baghdad, where they continue to train Iraqi military personnel, as mandated by their mandate. Less than ten Belgian soldiers and a liaison officer are in the Erbil area to provide training such as infantry tactics, first aid and courses on how to deal with IEDs. These trainings are intended for Kurdish soldiers or Sunni tribes. Belgian soldiers are not involved in the construction of refugee camps today, given their number, their mandate and their equipment. However, it is the UNHCR, UNICEF and other NGOs who have prepared and built up camps and are still building them, in order to cope with the expected flow of refugees. Belgium also participates in other working groups as part of the campaign against Daesh. These working groups are not under the control of the Defence. It is difficult to estimate the number of Sunnis (Kurdes not included) participating in the battle of Mosul. However, the coalition also formed local Sunni tribes to ensure security after the liberation of the city of Mosul. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, if I may, I would like to say a little more about the meeting we had yesterday with a number of partners in the international coalition. For Mr De Vriendt's specific questions, in particular, I hope that I can give some clear answers. As far as the offensive itself is concerned, that goes as expected, even a little better than expected. It is important that the successes needed to keep everyone on the ground motivated also take place effectively. Cooperation, especially between the Kurds and Iraqi troops, must be re-established every day, according to the Americans. I have already indicated in my reply that they may have other motivations to contribute to the coalition, but both know that stabilisation is necessary. There was a lot of talk yesterday about the stabilisation and humanitarian mission coming up, as soon as places around Mosul and the city of Mosul itself are liberated. Both the Iraqis and the Kurds are aware of the principle that a conquest cannot be converted into an occupation. There will be hard work on a holding power once Mosul is liberated. I have already indicated which NGOs are mainly active. The follow-up seems to be exemplary there today. With regard to the duration of the assignment, it is important that we realize that the previous conquests that have taken place on IS have been offensives of at least 80 days. We must prepare ourselves, we must be aware of it, we must also pay attention to it yesterday and make it clear to our communities at home that it will not be resolved tomorrow. I also indicated in my reply that the liberation of Mosul is only one stage. We should not expect IS to be defeated with this. We are well aware of that. The Defence Ministers were also asked to be a lawyer on the 3D-LO approach for the good, to keep the other competent ministers awake and to warm them up for that. Mr De Vriendt, as far as the many suicide attacks against advancing troops are concerned, it is important to know that IS is not an army. They do not abide by any rule, international agreement or anything. So they also effectively use human shields and suicide attacks as a legitimate weapon. Actually, that can be considered as such. We may see that as a weakened position: the pressure is increased and is high. However, there remains an important core of estimated between 4 000 and 7 000 IS fighters in and around Mosul. It is important to realize that this is not a war according to the rules of warfare. For IS, broadcasting a bomber is a legitimate weapon, in their eyes it is ordinary warfare. The counter-offensive of ISIS at Kirkuk was to be expected. There are still counter-offensives to be expected, they will not just surrender. So significant is that, to the extent that surprise can always be annoying. As regards the humanitarian consequences, I think I have answered them. It is a fact that UNICEF and UNHCR are following it very quickly. The intention is for us politically as a coalition to provide additional support for this. Indeed, it is important in this respect, as also described in the strategic vision and the choices we have made in it, to take into account ex post stabilisation today. The positive thing about yesterday's meeting in Paris, which brought me back with a good feeling, is that it is effectively the concern of all the partners of the international coalition to put stability first afterwards; it shows that any mistakes from the past have taught us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u12	Minister, I repeat General Petraeus' sentence: "We don't clean an area when we don't know how to hold it." I regret to note that members of the international coalition and Belgium do not know how to hold Mosul. With regard to the nature of the military ground force that will replace Daesh, no one is able to specify the percentage of Sunnis that will be among the soldiers who will take over the city. The majority of the population is Sunni, and paramilitary forces such as the Peshmergas are not legitimate among the Sunni population. It is also clear that massive bombings will cause, as UNHCR has shown and predicted, a massive movement of Sunni refugee populations. And you entrust the management of these refugees to the UN and UNICEF. Not only would Belgium grow politically, and in a humanitarian way, by participating in the construction of refugee camps in the surrounding areas, but, on a strategic and political level, ensuring that Belgium participates in programmes for the construction and consolidation of Sunni populations in the Mosul area would be a way of countering Daesh's deadly narrative, which presents itself as the defender of Sunnis. If Belgium were to take part in the supervision of Sunni refugees, we could therefore make strategic points, in the long term, to ensure peace. This would avoid a third and fourth battle in Mosul.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I would like to make two more comments. Firstly, we must pay attention to the role of Turkey in Iraq and in Syria. They hinder and fight the same Kurds that we have as our allies. I think that is the Achilles heel of what is happening in both countries. Secondly, the Sunnis must certainly not be the victims of the fight against IS. That has been the mistake in past conflicts in Iraq, among others. There is a need for an integrated approach. I fully support what my colleague Hellings has said about this. The Sunnis should be part of the Iraqi army that is now making an offensive against IS. We train Iraqi soldiers. I therefore believe that we are in a position in Iraq so that we can see to it that it is done. I'd like to ask you to constantly monitor that position and keep an eye on it. It seems crucial to me to achieve a stabilisation of Iraq once the conflict has ended.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u14	Minister, I would like to thank you for your answers. When I was talking about diplomacy, I think we need to think about the future right now. It is well known that this is a complicated situation, that Western states are trapped in regional alliances, to say the least, changing, and that they do not always have the same objectives. It is clear that, anyway, when the case of Daesh is resolved, if there is no prior political support to think about the future of Iraq and Syria, we may find ourselves facing new tensions. I believe that the Kurdish problem will also have to be resolved one day, if we are to bring a minimum of stability to this strategic region.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u15	At the end of September, Minister, we learned from the press that Rachid Kasim had sent a number of messages online on his platform, publishing the names and photos of a number of military personnel in uniform. I understand the message channel has been taken offline by now. I don't know if that's what happened to the man himself. It is important to stress the seriousness of this. Rachid Kasim isn't the first to be the best. He repeatedly calls for attacks by lone wolves in the West. He has or had a 300 followers, of which two have already been attacked, the murder of a French police couple in June and the murder of the French priest in July this year. In addition, there are suspicions of involvement in the bloody attack in Nice. The data of the six soldiers, where some of them have the residence, the license plate of the car and even the names of close relatives, are from Facebook, we think. Meanwhile, Defense would have called for the Facebook accounts to be adjusted so that the information is no longer so easy to obtain. I think this is an important first step that is not a day too early. I also know that the Committee I has carried out an investigation in the past, but I think it is interesting to know what steps are being taken to better protect the military on-line and in general. I also wondered whether specific measures have also been taken with regard to the military who were mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u16	Before that post of 26 September 2016, the Ministry of Defence informed staff about the risks related to the use of social media. With the Homeland operation and through the distribution of the new alert stage for Defence personnel and infrastructure on the national territory, certain recommendations regarding the use of social media were given to the military from 16 January 2015. In addition, guidelines were given through the same channels which make it difficult to identify our staff and thus reduce the abuse of the images of the military on social media. On 17 March 2015, a brochure entitled "The social media in ten steps" was published by DG COM via the military intranet. It explains in practical terms the risks posed by social media and the way in which they can be met. The staff who consult this brochure are encouraged to share this with colleagues, friends and family as much as possible. On January 15th of this year an animation spot was posted on the military intranet in the form of e-news entitled "Social media and cybersecurity for military personnel." This ridicule is the result of the cooperation between the DG COM and the cybermanagement cell of ACOS IS. In May of this year, an article entitled "Are you armed against Internet threats" was published in Debriefing, a monthly Internet publication. On 10 October 2016, the DG COM proposed a new spot on both the military intranet and on the Defence Internet site entitled "How to handle social media for military relatives." It is often not only the military themselves but also their family members who could possibly create risks that could be avoided. The aim is to raise awareness and raise awareness of the immediate surroundings of our personnel about the potential risks they can make our military run by posting seemingly innocent information on social media. On October 11, 2016, the banner "Take back the internet" was added to the intranet Defense homepage with a link to the site safeonweb.be. The whole range of recommendations and guidelines as well as the existence of a range of products on the Internet are then repeated regularly in front of Defence personnel. The last formal report was made on 27 December, following that famous post, by means of e-news on the Defence intranet presented to the staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I can see that a lot of efforts are already being made. Every soldier must develop the necessary ethics in this area and exercise the necessary discretion. We also had an interesting debate on this last week in connection with the suspicions of the Russians, the identity of military personnel and the data of military personnel operating abroad, in which this discretion is important. I would therefore like to call for intensive work to be carried out so that in future the military too will deal discreetly with the use of social media.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u18	Madam President, in the Central Africa strategic note presented at the committee meeting on Wednesday 5 October 2016, we read that insecurity threatens the development of these countries and of the whole continent. We see today that the sub-Sahel region, with countries such as Niger and Chad, is very unstable. Just above that are the North African countries that are at boat distance from southern Europe. It is therefore necessary that we remain present in the region through our various instruments, in order to contribute to its stability and security. In this way, we can help ensure that the Central African countries and by enlargement the whole continent can develop sustainably. These are developments that also have an impact on the rest of the continent and on Europe. In that context, I would like to ask you the following questions, Minister. Firstly, what is your view of the instability in the Sub-Sahel region, and what impact does this have and will this continue to have on Central Africa? Which factors are the most acute? Secondly, can our military make a contribution if asked to bring more stability? How could this be operational? What possibilities are there? Finally, given the precarious situation in the Democratic Republic of Congo which may escalate further as a result of the non-organisation of the elections, does the question arise whether Belgian soldiers are ready to evacuate Belgians from Congo? Can you explain that further?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u19	Madam President, Mr Vandenput, the countries of the Sahel, the Sahara and Sub-Saharan Africa share many destabilising factors such as poor governance, failing structures, rapid population growth, youth unemployment and a stagnant economy. However, in the field of security, the challenges differ significantly. The Sahel region is faced with extremism, terrorism and all forms of smuggling, while Central Africa is more affected by ethnic conflicts and the plundering of its wealth. Belgium remains present in Central Africa and is rapidly gaining momentum in North Africa and the Sahel. In cooperation with the FPS Foreign Affairs and Development Cooperation, Defence contributes to the stability and development of these regions. Within this 3D-LO approach, Defence focuses on the security aspect. For example, since 2008, Defence has been actively involved in the formation of a Congolese Rapid Reactions Brigade. Partnerships with the countries of North Africa, in particular Tunisia, and in the Sahel Niger, have followed the same approach and intensified since 2015. By participating in and even taking the lead of the ETM in Mali and the UN Mission MINUSMA, Belgium has also shown willingness to combat the rise of extremism and to seek long-term solutions by training the Malian army. As far as the planning of a non-combatant evacuation operation (NEO) is concerned, this remains, as you know, a core task of the Belgian Defence Department. For that, all plans are in place. They are regularly updated and, where appropriate, concrete measures are taken on the basis of the intelligence that is reaching us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u20	Minister, you confirm that we remain active in the region and that our core tasks remain there. You confirm that Belgian Defence will continue to guarantee security in both North Africa and Central Africa. I have one last question, perhaps I did not hear the answer correctly. Will our Belgian soldiers be ready if anything happens in the next few months in Congo? Are they ready to evacuate Belgians?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u21	In professional terms, it's called a NEO, a non-combatant evacuation operation. Those plans exist. We have a number of rules in place. We follow intelligence day after day. Concrete measures are also being taken to prepare for a possible evacuation operation. But we don't have to exaggerate. I mean, the situation is worrying, but I also have to make sure that we do not launch a self-fulfilling prophecy by taking action. Some caution is needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u22	Thank you for these clarifications, Minister. I fully agree with you: our people must be ready, but not already fly there to take action there if that is not necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u23	Minister, according to the information published on 5 October in the French newspaper Le Canard Enchaîné – notice that I also read the French press and not just De Telegraaf in Dutch! – part of the American nuclear arsenal stored, until the failed coup d'état of 15 July in Turkey, was transferred to the airbases of Aviano and Ghedi, Italy. The bombs that have not yet been transferred to Italy would soon be transferred to Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands, according to the newspaper in question. On August 10, Le Canard Enchainé had already announced that the US Department of Defense, the DOD, had commissioned a study to consider other storage sites for these 50 thermonuclear bombs kept by a country called "few quiet"! Minister, on the sidelines of the NATO summit in Warsaw last July, to which you and your colleagues, Messrs. Michel and Reynders, participated, was the question of the transfer of the fifty American B-61s from Turkey to air bases from other allied countries addressed formally or informally? Has Defence been contacted formally or informally since then to store some of these 50 nuclear bombs on Kleine Brogel Air Base? Will this potential additional storage of B-61 have an impact on the Defence budget? Indeed, are the hangars for the storage of B-61 currently stored in Kleine Brogel large enough to receive additional American-Turkish warheads?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u24	Mr Hellings, in accordance with the Government's agreement, Belgium agreed as a reliable partner with NATO's strategic concepts. NATO's nuclear deterrent position is based in particular on the non-strategic deployment of the United States non-nuclear weapons in Europe. This pre-positioning and each amendment are consistent with the NPT (Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons) and, on the other hand, remain a national prerogative of the United States.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u25	Minister, thank you for your non-response!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u26	Minister, at the end of September, the Dutch Defence Minister presented her defence budget for 2017. The estimates were also disseminated up to 2031. What is striking from these documents is that the Netherlands provides 1.53 billion euros for its frigates. EUR 730 million would replace the frigates. The last time you spoke about the replacement budgets, during the committee in July in response to my question, you said that some EUR 1 billion will be earmarked for the replacement of the frigates. Within this budget, seven million euros are foreseen for the development of a new radar. At the same meeting you also said that all development costs can be shared with the Netherlands. The budget provided by the Netherlands for the replacement of the two frigates is significantly lower than the budget provided for in Belgium. Belgium provides 266 million euros more than the Netherlands. Firstly, what explanation do you see for the large difference in figures? Secondly, are our figures an overestimate of total cost? Are the figures of the Netherlands an underestimate of the total cost? Is the distribution of total costs between the Netherlands and Belgium not based on a principle of 50/50? Thirdly, what is the key for development costs with the Netherlands? Fourthly, what is the key for the replacement research with the Netherlands? Fifth, what is the key for the production of the frigates with the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u27	Mr Top, in principle the level of ambition, the deployment scenario and the threats used to replace the frigates by Belgium and the Netherlands are identical and therefore identical capacities are pursued. In the past, cost elements may differ from country to country depending on what is included in the initial investment. Today we are not even at the prospecting stage, and estimates may indeed vary considerably. Of course, this can be refined. As far as the keys are concerned, as long as numbers and usage concepts remain the same, we naturally assume a 50/50 key. For development and production, a proportionate contribution from both countries is envisaged in a joint replacement project, but the discussions that will soon start with the Netherlands will have to clarify this aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, in that you are basing yourself on the fact that you are aiming for a 50/50 distribution in the keys. I also understand that there is a difference in the declared costs. The follow-up to the file will make those differences clear. I look forward to the next steps. You said you'd start discussions soon. I would just like to quote from the article on the Dutch Navy that I read on a Dutch website yesterday: 'This time it is the Belgians who have to wait for the slow Dutch decision-making. The first phase for the new frigates has started in the Netherlands, the A-letter is still waiting. The replacement of mine hunters in the Netherlands is at an even more priller stage. Both the Belgian and the Dutch Navy are also at the mercy of the following Cabinets. If a next Dutch cabinet decides not to let one of the projects go through, this will cause serious problems in Belgium. I'm worried when I read this article. We must therefore take our next steps together with the Dutch. Each has to keep its commitments so that one of the two countries does not get into trouble.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u29	Mr Top, just over a month ago, the nuclear cabinet agreed with my approach of working in different stages. We've only talked about the frigates now. They are not separate from the entire Navy replacement program, which is frigates and mine hunters. We're starting different phases. I can confirm that people in the Netherlands are working a little slower at staff level. In any case, I share with my Dutch colleague the absolute political will to sign a letter or intent this year, after which effective project groups can be started to look at the rest of the programme. It seems clear to me that the whole programme stands or falls with the collaboration within BeNeSam, which is seen as very good by both parties. We need to look at the extent to which we can align our planning on funding with that of Dutch fellow Members. We expressed the express wish to continue this project. I have no doubt that we will find a solution to these problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u30	Madam President, Minister, on the night of 17-18 September 1961, the aircraft carrying, inter alia, Dag Hammarskjöld, then Secretary-General of the United Nations, crashed into a forest about ten kilometres from Ndola, then called the Northern Rhodesia. This tragic and unprecedented event took place at the beginning of the "congolese crisis". The United Nations General Assembly unanimously decided on 26 October 1961 to establish a commission of inquiry into the circumstances of the disappearance. The Commission delivered its conclusions in April 1962, but was only able to render an open "verdict" by concluding that the death of the United Nations boss was "suspect" without considering that he had been murdered. Through the provisions of resolutions adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 29 December 2014 and 19 November 2015, Ban Ki-Moon, the current Secretary-General of the United Nations, appointed "a group of independent experts to review new information and assess its probative value" on this painful case and "to obtain the information requested by the group of independent experts to a number of member States that have not yet been communicated". The Secretary-General has thus sent a request to Belgium, South Africa, the United Kingdom and the United States, namely, the countries concerned by the disappearance. Replies from these various States, including Belgium, were obtained by forceps. Thus, in a note dated 17 August 2016, the United Nations boss noted that Belgium's "response does not bring anything new". Minister, in the letter of reply to the letter of the Secretary General of the United Nations sent on 11 January 2016 by our Permanent Representative, reference is made to the consultation, by the Belgian authorities, of the "diplomatic archives" and the "archives of private companies kept in the General Archives of the Kingdom", but not to the archives of the Defence in general and the SGRS in particular. Has Defence been consulted in this investigation or not? Does the Defence have data in its archives concerning an aircraft pilot named Van Risseghem, Breukels or Beukels? I refer here to the information published yesterday in Le Soir. More than 55 years after the facts, is Defence prepared to make available – and I quote here from the letter of the Secretary-General of the United Nations – "any information that is still classified as confidential or has not yet been made public" concerning this matter at the disposal of the UN Panel of Independent Experts?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u31	Madam President, my colleague, the section that manages the classified archives of the SGRS does not have any documents that could contribute to the investigation into the death of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Dag Hammarskjöld.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u32	Madam President, Minister, I thank you once again for this non-response.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u33	I can't be clearer. We have nothing. Point!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u34	Do you know, minister, that at the moment an amendment to the information law held by the intelligence services, including the military intelligence service, is under discussion? It is a question of further strengthening the secrecy around intelligence services, in particular around data that are over 55 years old, as is the case here. I think that if we ever want to build a colonial memory that will allow us to assume, in the long run, our colonial past, it will be seen as a greater transparency towards the events that took place a long time ago. This concerns people who have now died. This would allow us, as Belgians, to assume what we have done in the Congo. It is not with such a closed attitude of the military intelligence service, and of the defence in particular, that we will achieve this laudable objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u35	Madam Chair, Minister, I would like to come back to a number of your answers to my question about the Royal Military School (RMC) program that was asked at the October 5th commission. Indeed, it would seem that, contrary to what you have said, there is still legal uncertainty about the number of years of training. You tell us that "the basic training programme of the faculties of the social and military sciences and polytechnics is fixed on an annual basis, regardless of the duration of the training. It is fixed by royal decree (...)". This seems to be incorrect because the Organic Law of the Royal Military School of 1838 provides for five years in the Faculty of Social and Military Sciences, while your royal decree, apparently not yet published, would set the first year of a four-year program, which is therefore not legal. Moreover, this reform has already begun to apply since the beginning of this academic year, when the amending law has not yet entered into force. In this regard, you have told us that the students have signed a purely informative document on this reform. Can you, in addition to your oral response, provide us with a copy of this document? Finally, when you say that "the content of the programmes is the subject of an annual recurring process of validation through the passage through the faculty councils", this is probably very true, except, it seems to me, for this academic year 2016-2017, precisely when the faculty councils seem to see on the agenda of their session of October 12 the approval of the 2017-2018 programs. Why this hiatus for 2016-17? You continue by explaining that these programs are also validated by the academic councils and by the assent of the development and education board. To my knowledge, the teachers were ousted from it. What, then, is its true representativeness?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u36	Mevrouw de voorzitter, Fernandez Fernandez, the draft bill, which is currently following the adoption process, is intended, among other things, to reduce the training provided to the Faculty of Social and Military Sciences of the Royal Military School to four years, while ensuring that officer candidates who began their training before the 2016-17 academic year, and who do not incur an incident during their training, are not affected by the new training period. The duration of the academic bachelor's training will not change. It is the duration of the training of the second cycle for obtaining the academic degree of master which will be reduced by one year, and this, after the entry into force of the amending law. The entry into force of the said law will be fixed on August 16, 2017, the date corresponding to the beginning of the academic year 2017-2018. There will therefore be no retroactive effect and no legal uncertainty. The "bachelier" level remains the same. As a transitional measure, the four-year training period will only apply from the academic year 2016-2017. The information document sent to students who started their studies at the ERM in August is available from the secretariat of the commission. Formally, the content of a year's academic program must be approved by the development board. Faculty councils are informed of this. For 2016-2017, the review of the academic program was entrusted to a working group, in which each academic department was represented. This program was then endorsed by the Development Board. On 12 October, this program was presented to the faculties. The powers of the faculty councils, the academic council and the development council are reflected in the Royal Decree of 26 September 2002 on the organization of the Royal Military School. The composition of the ERM Development Board has been adapted in order to meet the objectives pursued by any Development and Integration Board, namely: 1. Ensure the relevance of training in terms of content. 2. Ensure, in collaboration with the managers of the staff concerned, the consistency, quality, effectiveness and efficiency of training. 3. Ensure training in correspondence with customers' needs. 4. Serve as a communication channel and forum to make proposals for improvement. In this way, clients set up training courses. Component commanders, as well as ad hoc clients, such as DG Budget and Finance, are integrated into this board. Members of the ERM's teaching staff are not represented at this council level. Their intervention is requested further in the programme development process through the faculty council working group or the academic council. Their task is, inter alia, in accordance with the aims formulated by the defence, to define the academic content of the courses leading to the awarding of an academic degree and to guarantee the value of these courses and their conformity with the European federal and Community provisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u37	Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, ladies and gentlemen, the document submitted to the students of the KMS will certainly be delivered to you through the secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u38	Madam President, thank you. The important thing is that we can dispose of it in order to be able to analyse it. I thank the minister for his answers. I regret that teachers cannot intervene... Mr. Minister, it may bother you, but maybe I can still... yoga? The position of the Lotus? It's gonna be okay! I regret that teachers cannot act before, because the reform has an anachronistic character: when it arrives in their hands, they find that they have not been able to pronounce themselves. And you'll excuse me, but you can't contradict me. On the other hand, I do not understand a point. I want to hear that it's me who doesn't understand it. You say that the reform will be effective for the academic year 2017-2018, but that the students who started the training today in 2016 will be affected by the reduction of the training. Did I misunderstand? I am really trying to understand and I promise you that I am not in bad faith!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u39	I'll explain it to you again. A student who starts his bachelor's degree this year, in 2016, will start his master's degree in 2018. Students are now warned that the master is about to be modified. It is in this way that they are involved in the reform. Is that clear?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u40	Yes, let's say yes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u41	Madam President, Minister, on 9 July your strategic vision for defence appeared. Since a substantive debate on this vision is still pending, I am already asking some questions in this way. Allow me once again to call for a proper substantive debate on the whole plan. On page 64 of your vision, I see that the investments for tactical air transport are booked with the land component. An investment in four SOF aircraft is also booked with the land component. In concrete terms, we are talking about an investment of 130 million for the purchase of these four aircraft and an investment of 41 million for air transport, of which 30.6 million for upgrades and 10.5 million for participation in an international training centre. On page 89 of your vision, I see that investments for the NH90 helicopters are booked in the Navy. Here we are talking about an investment of 70.9 million for upgrades, modules and training centres. Are investments in tactical air transport always booked with the army? For what reason are the four SOF aircraft booked with the Army? For what reason are the investments in the NH90 helicopters booked in the Navy and not in the Air Component? Which component does the staff of the NH90 currently belong to?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u42	Madam President, Mr Top, it is good that you have read the strategic vision in its entirety, and perhaps just a little clarification is in order. The fact is that we have developed the strategic vision based on capabilities divided into four dimensions, namely intelligence and cyber influence, land, air and maritime. Operational functionality is central to this and not belonging to a particular structure. It is also a principle specifically defined as such in my strategic view that structures must follow operationality. The structures must follow what is needed. I will give you a concrete answer to your questions. The four SOF aircraft will serve primarily in the capacity of the special forces, so they are covered by the capacious land dimension. The four NH90 helicopters of the land version, the TTH of Troop Transport Helicopters, will primarily support the land force, in particular the interweapon motorised capacity and capacity special operations forces of the capacitary land dimension. The NH90 fregathelicopters, the NFH, will primarily be used on the frigates, the capacity service combatant of the capacitorial maritime dimension. Today all air vehicles are supported and organized from the air component as it was considered the most efficient way to organize it. The contribution of the future structure of the Belgian Defence Department is one of the implementation dossiers that is being worked on in the context of the elaboration of the strategic vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for your clarification. We look forward to the next debate and the discussion of the strategic vision itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u44	Mr President, at its last meeting, the Council of Ministers approved the preliminary draft programme law. That has already been or will be the case in Parliament. This will be the ideal opportunity to discuss on the substance of the choices made in the strategic vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u45	Madam President, Minister, I have indeed tabled two questions on wind turbines. With my second question I respond to a reply from your Flemish colleague, Bart Tommelein, in connection with the building requests for windmills. When building and planting windmills, a building request should be submitted. The Department of Defense shall issue an opinion on this matter. Those applications may be sent directly by the firm guarantors themselves or indirectly through the services concerned. Defense uses strict criteria. For example, the Geomatics department receives the applications and makes a first quick evaluation with the available GIS tool. Afterwards, detailed advice is requested from the various parts of the Defense Department. When these advices are in, the Geomatics department delivers a final opinion. For example, it is not possible to install wind turbines near a military pipeline. Nor can a wind turbine be placed between two BEMILCOM towers with hertz beams for communication. No turbine can be placed near an ammunition depot or near an airport. That is why I would like an answer to the following questions. How many requests for advice do you have to deal with every year? I'd like an overview of the last five years. How many applications were approved or received a positive opinion? How many applications were refused? How many applications were approved subject to conditions? I'd like an overview. Has the DOD carried out a study to rationalise the number of radars at airports? How old are the radars at military airports? When do these radars need to be replaced? The strategic vision refers to a replacement of the radars in 2017-2018 and in 2020-2029. The Netherlands decided at the end of 2014 to replace its radars with radar systems that can better ignore the failures of windmills. Is this also considered when replacing our systems? Finally, are there military airports at Defense that are no longer used but which still impose restrictions on the construction of wind turbines? If so, what airports are we talking about? That brings me to my second question. During the Flemish Environment Committee, your fellow Flemish Minister, Bart Tommelein, answered some questions about the Windplan. The Wind Plan puts a higher level of ambition on the production capacity of wind energy. Wind energy will play a greater role in the future. Minister Tommelein, in reply to a question, quoted the following: "I have already sent a letter to Federal Minister Vandeput concerning military airports. In this is the tractor sector. We should not hide it: it is often the many airports we have in this country that are a barrier, because there are rather rigid rules and rigid approaches. My message is clear: everyone has to go along with this story. We must try to solve all resistances." The installation of windmills has many limitations because of Defence, component Aviation. In the past, many ministers have already promised to tackle the problem. Unfortunately, this has not yet produced any results. That is why I would have liked an answer to the following questions. Did you receive the question from your Flemish fellow minister? If so, what is your answer to this letter? What specific restrictions, for example on airport radars and CTR zones imposed by the Defence Department on wind turbines, have been effectively negotiated? What is the state of these negotiations? How many meetings have there been? Is there any concrete result, for example, on easing restrictions or lifting them? If so, which one? If not, when can we expect a concrete result? Are you willing to actively engage in relaxing and/or lifting the process of restrictions to enable wind turbines? If yes, how can you concreteise this commitment? Do you recognise the difference between large and medium wind turbines? Medium wind turbines are increasingly common and are not higher than 50 meters. Despite a more limited height, the windmills have many advantages. Church towers and water towers, for example, fall into the same altitude class. Could you split up the rules for advising on large and medium-sized windmills?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u46	Mr Top, thank you for your very interesting question. With regard to Mr Tommelein's letter from the Flemish Government, I received a letter from him and replied in connection with the installation of solar panels on the roofs of buildings of Defence. I replied that, as the Minister responsible for taxation in the Flemish Government, he might first have to look at the conditions imposed on defence buildings to fall within the special regime of property tax. So I have not yet received an answer to that. In any case, I have not yet answered another letter concerning windmills. In order to do this properly, of course, you are asking me for an overview of the last five years. That question would be more useful to be answered in writing. I'll deliver the figures to the committee secretariat in a moment. To illustrate how serious or non-serious the problem was or to what extent one should beware of making statements too quickly in the media about opposing other departments, I would like to frame this. In 2012, a total of 174 applications of which 18 were refused, 104 were approved and 52 were approved subject to conditions. Then there were 18 or 10 %. 2014 was a lean year for applications, there were 81 applications: 5 were refused, 56 approved and 20 were approved with conditions. In 2016 there were 73 applications until today: 61 were approved without conditions, 10 were approved subject to conditions and 2 were not approved. I therefore believe that a hit ratio of 2 to 73, or slightly more than 2% which are refused, indicates that the seriousness of such statements is different. This is evident when the figures are added effectively. This being said, Defense works closely with Belgocontrol to rationalise surveillance systems and continuously explores all possibilities in this context as has been the case for the fusion of the Airfield Surveillance Radar or ASR for the benefit of Florennes' base and Charleroi's civil airport. The Koksijde airbase uses the radar of Ostend. In 2015, Glons' radar was disabled. Zoersel-Oostmalle airport is no longer used as a military airport. For building requests from wind turbines in the vicinity of this airport, the applicants are referred to Space Flanders, Defence joins the advice of Space Flanders. The Airfield Surveillance Radars at the military airports were put into service between 1981 and 1983. Since 2014 and until 2018, these radar systems have been subject to various upgrade programmes, extending their expected lifespan to around 2030. Then we'll go to real replacement. In January 2016, I responded, at the request of the Organisation for Sustainable Energy Flanders, to evaluate the conditions of Defence regarding the installation of wind turbines. This study should be available by the end of this year. It is mainly about the height of the wind turbines in the vicinity of airports. My services note that with the current technology it is still not possible to filter out all interferences on radars. Both the height of the turbines and the radar interferences are important for flight safety. If the study shows that a relaxation of the rules is possible, I will not hesitate to go into it, but I cannot put the safety of the pilots, of ourselves and of the passengers in civil aviation at risk. I would also like to say once again that, when I see our opinions on the various dossiers, we must ensure that we do not override the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u47	Thank you, Minister, for your clarification. I look forward to the study that will be completed by the end of 2016. You said that you received a letter about the solar panels that you have already answered. It was not clear whether you received a letter from Mr Tommelein on the windmills.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u48	I said I certainly didn't sign an answer. We will get some mail, but I certainly haven't seen an answer pass. I'd remember that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u49	I don't want to start a polemic about it. It is good that it is being considered and that a study is under way on the questions raised by the sector. That's good. In any case, I do not want to start a polemic based on your reference to the figures. I assume that today, on the basis of the plans that are known and of the regulations that it knows, the sector is not applying for non-compliance with the rules or the planting schedules. It is useless to submit a request for construction if one knows in advance that one will get a refusal. It is only in cases of doubt that another application is made. I continue to urge further research to see if these radar systems and upgrades can be achieved, thus avoiding or minimising the malfunctions, and to further investigate the distinction between large windmills and medium windmills. Maybe that study will shed some light on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u50	Mr De Vriendt announced that he would be prevented from attending the Committee on the Interior. If he does not get here in good time, his questions Nos 14447 and 14457 will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u51	Madam President, Minister, first of all, I congratulate you on your next departure to Russia to analyse the parliamentary elections – we discussed it this morning. My colleague Mrs. Julie Fernandez Fernandez is already very happy. Blague aside, as you know, for my group, your department's contribution to Belgian scientific missions on the southern continent is essential. Such a contribution has often been considered indispensable in the past, particularly in terms of technology, logistics and expertise. In plenary last week, your colleague in charge of federal science policy said that the government decided to organize a new mission with Defence and scientific policy experts from October to February. Minister, can you give me more details on the human and logistical aspects of the army's contribution in this context? From a legal point of view, how is Defence's work framed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u52	Madam President, Mr Pirlot, Defence is providing a detachment in support of Belspo in accordance with the decision of the Council of Ministers of 19 October 2016. This detachment will comprise a total of sixteen military personnel. The Defence does not envisage any way of carrying out the Belare mission in isolation. We do not have the skills related to the technical and systemic specificities of the station. As Defence finds itself in a role of support for the expedition, it is not up to the Minister of Defence to decide on the launch of the expedition. Antarctic activities are subject to the 1959 Antarctic Treaty, which prohibits any military activity. The Russian base of Novolazarevskaya, where the establishment to the Princess Elizabeth base is made, is a scientific basis that is subject to the same treaty. The detachment consists of about 15 people who will be deployed for a period of about four months. The legal basis for this deployment is the framework agreement between the Secretary of State for Scientific Policy and the Minister of Defence, signed on 10 October 2016, on the implementation of the Belare campaign at Princess Elizabeth station.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u53	Minister, thank you for your full answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u54	Madam President, Minister, according to an article on IRI News dated 6 October, a US Air Force PR officer admitted to Martha McSally, a Congressman from Arizona, that American A-10 aircraft used depleted uranium ammunition in November last year over northern Syria. Armed uranium is used in heavy-caliber ammunition because of its enormous density, its sharpness and its easy flammability. That makes it suitable for piercing armored materials. In addition, depleted uranium is also harmful to health. It is chemically toxic and harmful especially to the kidneys, brain and liver by inhalation or ingestion through the food chain. It is also slightly radioactive for a very long time after firing. Belgium prohibits the use of depleted uranium ammunition, but participates in the same operation as that in which the US would have used this ammunition. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Firstly, have you been aware of the use of this type of API (Armor Piercing and Incendiar) by the American coalition members in the context of the operation over Syria or over Iraq? Secondly, will the Belgian Government ask the US for more information on the use of such ammunition? Will it urge the US to disclose the details of the use of these ammunition so that a targeted response on the ground is possible? Thirdly, will the Belgian Government express its concern to the US about the use of such ammunition? Fourthly, can the government guarantee that our F-16s will never or never participate in any action involving other coalition countries using depleted uranium weapons?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u55	Madam President, Mr De Vriendt, Belgium has no knowledge of the use of depleted uranium ammunition during Operation Inherent Resolve. As you know, Belgium is a pioneer in the ban on the use of this type of ammunition. The use of depleted uranium in ammunition has been banned in Belgium since June 2007, and therefore also for Belgians, but there is no international ban. Defence will continue to defend its position on this issue in each forum.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u56	Madam President, Minister, I have a very logical question: can you inform the United States? I actually expected you to do that in response to my question. I can understand very well that you have no knowledge of this, but a press article has been published and it seems logical to me that you should inform the United States. Also because of my last question, I would very much like our F-16s never to participate in an action in which aircraft from our allies use weapons with depleted uranium. Maybe you can answer that. Can you simply inform the United States of this through bilateral diplomatic channels? Are you willing to do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u57	I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u58	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u59	Madam President, Minister, in 2008, the construction of a new NATO headquarters across the A201 was launched at the historic location of Haren's old airport. After years of delay and with allegedly much higher costs than budgeted, the new headquarters will soon have to be delivered. The famous NATO star, the monument at the entrance of the headquarters, moved to the new building earlier in May. At the NATO summit in Warsaw, it was decided to hold the next summit in Brussels in 2017 and to dedicate the new headquarters. Will the building be ready by then? When's the delivery scheduled? When's the summit scheduled? How much will the new headquarters have cost in the end? How much more is it than the original estimate? What amount did Belgium pay? What happens to the old NATO headquarters? Is it true that the sites are returned to the hands of the Belgian army? What does the DOD intend to do with the premises and buildings? Is an extension of Queen Elizabeth's quarters on the agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u60	Madam President, Mr De Vriendt, the actual construction of the new NATO headquarters started in November 2010 and not in 2008. The works are in the final phase. The transfer is scheduled for December 2016. There is currently no concrete date for the planned NATO summit in 2017. The total project will cost about 1.1 billion. The share for which Belgium is project manager is EUR 860 million. The reckoning will be of that order of magnitude. A comparison with the initial amounts is difficult because in recent years NATO has adapted its needs several times and expanded its scope. In any case, the final balance will still be lower than the budgets advanced by the partner countries for this project. The Court of Auditors shall monitor the financial management and report at the appropriate time. Belgium's contribution to the costs of the new headquarters is not, on the basis of the current distribution key, any indication that it would change................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Indeed, the existing agreement between the Kingdom of Belgium and the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation provides that, after the completion of the work on the new NATO headquarters, the buildings and sites of the old NATO headquarters will be transferred to the Belgian State, in this case Defence. The future destination of the sites of the old NATO headquarters and the destination of the present quarter Queen Elisabeth are currently part of a consultancy mission we have requested and of consultations of the relevant regions and municipalities. As you know, this region is not very easy, but there is an external consultancy task for which we expect the results in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u61	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u62	Minister, you could stay until about 12:00. We shall deal with the next item, after which I shall close the sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u63	Madam President, Minister, for the past two years our military have been heavily involved by this government in the fight against terrorism. They are of faction in our streets, day and night, whether it sells or rains, often to the detriment of what they have been trained for and what they have been engaged for, namely missions abroad. It has also been two years since they suffered drastic savings imposed by the Michel government on your department because this government has reduced operations abroad to a strict minimum, missions to assist the Nation, trainings and formations while planning under the coat the closure of many barracks. You might have thought the list of horrors would stop there, but no! In the Prime Minister's recent statement, he praised the flexibility and availability of troops while thanking them for a decline in their retirement age. This was decided without any consultation with the social partners. This also allows me to say that at the committee on 20 April, you lied to us – see, I'm not the only one lying in committee. Indeed, in response to a question from my colleague Sevastian Pirlot about the future of pensions, you said: "It is of course true that the alignment of the various pension systems will be carried out in consultation with the social partners." However, these same unions, which you thought in our last committee to approve of all your decisions, or even their applause, seem, today, to be particularly uplifted against this decision, as we can see in their joint press release. Minister, you were meeting with all the military unions last Friday. Can you give us an account of this, in particular, of the scope for negotiation of this decision? Since you are coming out of a budget conclave, can you tell us the cost of this measure by 2030 and its practical consequences for the operation, particularly with regard to the advancement of the army and its budget. In addition, how do you intend to integrate this measure in the perspective of a gradual downsizing and a rejuvenation of the army's framework, an objective that is supported by your strategic vision? Finally, at the plenary session on October 17, Minister Bacquelaine told us that the military will not be deployed in the combat zone at 60 years of age. Of course! So what tasks will they have between the ages of 56 and 63?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u64	Mr Minister, I would like to confine my introduction. My speech is in line with that of the previous speaker. I would like to come back to the State of the Union, which showed that, suddenly, soldiers will have to work 7.5 years longer for the same pension. Two days later, you stated that you are convinced that soldiers will be recognized as workers with a heavy occupation. Such contradictory statements between the State of the Union and your statement create uncertainty among the military and personnel. As the previous speaker said, we must also refer to the strategic vision. Last summer, you talked about the great savings that it would bring to the army's personnel costs. The army, that was one of the great principles, would be urgently rejuvenated. The current average age of 40.6 years would decrease to 34 by 2030. This is not just a small sentence in the strategic vision. The rejuvenation of staff and the decrease in staff costs were one of the main lines of that plan. So all your vision stands or falls with this evolution. I would therefore like to receive answers to the following questions. Will you take into account the government's recent decisions and rewrite your strategic siege? What new evolution can you put in front of the rejuvenation of the army? What is the cost of the proposed retirement age? In the negotiations, have you been able to ensure that some of the profits from the pension budget go to the Defense Department? You are convinced that military appeals will be recognized as serious appeals. Can you formally confirm this recognition? When are the military gonna be sure about that? What exactly is the effective retirement age for military? The contradictory statements mean that this is no longer clear. What happens to soldiers who are not working full-time at the moment, for example because they are finished careers? Will these soldiers have to work full-time again, given the extension of the active duration? Finally, why is the retirement age not determined according to the month of a person's actual birthday? Instead, there seems to be a trimestral operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u65	Minister, I also have a question about the retirement age of the military. In the coming weeks, the trade unions or trade unions are planning targeted trade union actions. There's a lot of information going around the military today through the unions. That information shows that it is necessary to clarify their retirement age. In this context, I have the following questions. First of all, is there going to be an official communication about the retirement age to the people of Defense? Secondly, what happens to people who are already in transitional arrangements or are about to enter such a transitional regime? Thirdly, are the so-called tantiemes retained or are they abolished? Fourthly, what impact does this have on budgeting? What will be the impact of the measure on the 50/25/25 key for staffing and investment that you have in mind in the strategic vision? Fifthly, what is the impact on the rejuvenation agreed in the framework of the strategic vision? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u66	Minister, there is a great deal to be done about the reform of military pensions. A number of members point out that syndicated actions are planned. Those actions are in part already in progress. There's been quite a stir in the military since the State of the Union. We believe that this unrest is entirely justified. A military career is not a career like another career. Military men are at the service of the nation. There must be respect for that. I have some questions for you. Why would the increase in retirement age be so abrupt? Soldiers who have been removed from their pension for seven years should still be working for 14 years. Is transitional arrangements provided for? Are the tantiemes being changed? What is the impact of that change on the level of pension for the military? Can certain categories of soldiers claim the status of heavy occupation? I would like to point out, however, that for us, the occupation of military personnel is a very serious one. There can be no doubt about that. We noted from the outset that it was the government's fault to do the whole pension reform first by raising the retirement age and then to think about what is actually a heavy occupation and which professions can be an exception to the increased retirement age. We have always been charged with this, and now we see the impact here on defence. That is particularly regrettable. I would also like to ask you if there is room for syndical consultation? The main cause of the unrest now is that it is feared that the so-called deal of deferred remuneration would be blown up unilaterally. That's about the next thing. Military people are never paid in full for a 24-hour performance. The idea is that unpaid remuneration will then be included at the end of the career. On average, this unpaid allowance can amount to about 10 years' salary. The pension at 56 is actually a form of compensation for this. We are now particularly angry, and rightly so, because this deferred remuneration would now be reduced to a large extent without increasing the remuneration for the performance at the time of the career itself. The same applies to the pension contributions of the military. It is now about 20% higher than in the mainstream public sector. That is also there to make a departure at 56 possible. A departure at 56 with 37.5 years of seniority is actually a career of 45 years. Military therefore contribute effectively to a pension after 37.5 years. Mr. Secretary, I have one last thought. I thought we wanted to rejuvenate the army, that we would like to go to a small, young, dynamically deployable army. Since I have been here on this Committee for Defence, there has been a lot of talk about the mixed career concept, the GLC of Minister De Crem and Minister Flahaut, now we are talking about the limited status of military personnel. I think we're still struggling with that, I think it's impossible to keep soldiers working from the beginning to their 56 or 65 within the Defense Department. We must go to a certain form of mixed career. That is still on the shelf, there is still no solution. If we want to go to a younger army, I do not understand how we can reconcile that with apparently the government's ambition to keep every military working until after 60 or 65.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u67	Minister, during the policy statement, the Prime Minister indicated that the retirement age would be increased in the defence sector. At present, that limit is 56 years old. From 2017, this will be increased by one year and then increase the retirement age by six months each year until the age of 63 is reached in 2030. I have the following questions, Minister. The debate on retirement age cannot be separated from the possible recognition of military as a heavy occupation. The National Pension Committee is currently considering this. What is the state of play regarding the discussion of recognizing military as a heavy occupation? In committee, we have already debated the age pyramid in the Defense Department a number of times. I am looking first of all at the definition of the strategic vision that sets out a certain recruitment rate per year until 2030. Will this figure be maintained or adjusted as the retirement age is raised? I'm assuming we're gonna need fewer staff. The strategic vision also focuses on a rejuvenation of the army: from 40.6 years today to 34.1 years in 2030. Is this objective still being achieved or is it threatened by an increase in the retirement age? How much will the average age be in 2030 with the increase in the retirement age? What impact will the measure have on the expected retirement wave in Defence from 2020 to 2025? The strategic vision indicates that recruitment policy will also focus on the operational impact on Defence by focusing on two main lines. On the one hand, the recruitment of technically skilled personnel, specialised petty officers, and on the other hand, the current shortages of combat units will be reduced. This vision is linked to a rejuvenation of the Defense Department. What impact will the increase in retirement age have on recruitment in this category and on the operational employability of our military? Then we come to the final point: the cost to the Defense Department. A sound Defence budget maintains a balance between 50 % personnel costs, 25 % operating costs and 25 % investment. In Belgium, staff costs are already taking a big bite out of the Defence budget. What impact will the increase in retirement age have on the share of staff costs? The increase in retirement age will, in my view, have an impact on the statutory aspects of physical testing and on the potential for further growth in grade. Do you envisage an amendment to the statutes with a view to raising the retirement age? If so, when are you planning this reform? If not, why isn't that done?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the government, tout le Gouvernement ensemble, the government, not the Minister of Defence, not the Minister of Pensions alone, the government has not taken any IKW in the context of the budget conclave, the elaboration of concrete texts, a decision in principle to adapt the pension regime for the military and to allow it to converge to the general pension system, but at the same time to proceed with the elaboration of measures for the functions of recognition as a heavy occupation. The reform on which a basic agreement was reached by the government consists of three pillars. First of all, the adjustment of the preferential tantième for the military. One year's work is currently counted for a 50th for the calculation of the pension amount. The adjustment of the regulations in this respect is foreseen from 1 January 2018 with effect on pensions from 1 January 2019. This adjustment goes hand in hand with the introduction of a new system for the heavy-duty professions. The second section, in consultation with the social partners in the Special Committee of the National Pensions Committee, includes the introduction of a new system for the heavy-duty professions. This should also have an effect on pensions from 1 January 2019 and is, of course, linked to the first part. At present there is an agreement on the four criteria to determine what is or is not a heavy occupation. I should like to point this out because this is the only place where people are making a very correct and correct record of what I am saying. Mr. Top, pay close attention. I have always said that with these four criteria I recognize a number of criteria which certainly apply to the majority of our military and certainly to the operational military. I have not offered guarantees at any time, because it is not for me to offer those guarantees or make decisions on them. I say again very clearly that I recognise a large part of these criteria in the military profession. I also recognise that the military profession is not an appeal as any other profession. The third part of the reform concerns retirement age. From 1 January 2018, the principle of the compulsory retirement of the military will be abolished. This means that soldiers who have to work outside today at 56 years and have no choice will be able to work longer than the planned retirement age. These measures, of course, still have to be implemented in conjunction with the Pensions Department. In addition, the age and career conditions for early retirement for members will be amended to gradually align with the normal conditions for early retirement. The increase is as follows: the age requirement is raised to 57 years in 2018 and is then increased from six months a year to 63 years in 2030. The career condition is increased to 38 years in 2018. It was raised to 39 years in 2021, 40 years in 2024, 41 years in 2027 and 42 years in 2030. An exception for a long career is provided for: - In 2026 and 2027, subject to the age requirement of 60 years and the career requirement of 42 years; - In 2028 and 2029, subject to the age condition of 60 years and the career condition of 43 years or the age condition of 61 years and the career condition of 42 years; - In 2030, subject to the age condition of 60 years and the career condition of 44 years or the age condition of 61 years and the career condition of 43 years. The procedures for implementing these measures are still to be determined in consultation with the Pensions Department. Naturally, these modalities will then be presented and discussed with the trade unions. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this will have an impact on the implementation of the strategic vision. This will cost money. This will have an impact on the average age. If we are to achieve the objectives set in terms of operationality and employability, methods will have to be found to link them together. I am looking in particular at my fellow Members from the majority in this Chamber, who have joined the questioners. There will be financial implications. If we're gonna be operational, we're gonna have to keep recruiting. In that case, compensation will have to be provided for the longer stay of people within the Defense Department. The study of the impact of the reform of the military pension system on the implementation of the strategic vision must be carried out in detail. I'm not gonna make any statements today. I asked for a study. It's been promised to me in no time. Things have to be right before we jump to conclusions. Mr De Vriendt, you are quite right to point out that retirement, especially of military personnel, is a broader social debate than just looking at the military ansich. The fact that we are all moving towards composite careers will also apply to military workers in the future. I can only say that I am working, step by step, on the implementation of possible measures that we can take in this respect. Soon I will come up with a proposal on horizontal mobility within the government that it should make it much easier for the military to make that transition. In addition, it is also the case that we are considering with my cell which is in contact with business and such like to what extent we can approach specific sectors in order to allow a possible flow to the private sector. I received the unions on the Monday following the Sunday when the government's agreement on the budget had been reached and communicated. I think it's normal for me to receive them, and that's what they said, too. I hope I have convinced them that this will be done by playing the game properly. So we are not going to use tricks such as those that have been used in the past by sending a Member of Parliament with a dossier under his arm to Parliament in order to push it through quickly and thus eliminate all possible consultation. We will do it as it should in consultation with the syndicates. I would also like to comment on one of the concerns raised. Politically, I can understand it, but I would argue that the military will have to work for a further seven and a half years, even with what is known today, in the sense that there will always be a correction for long-term occupations. That is already part of the agreement today. You are right, and I would have preferred all this to remain silent until there are concrete results. Unfortunately, that is not the case. This was communicated as a result of a budgetary conclave and I understand very well that this raises a lot of questions for those involved. The CHOD communicated with the people individually last week, but it is difficult to be very concrete and clear today, precisely because some of the heavy professions are still lagging behind and people do not know what impact that will have. As I said to the unions, I am not represented on the pension committee. They are, because it is put together in a joint way. I therefore expect them to take the messages I give to my fellow Members who are represented.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u69	Minister, you reassured me that everyone is around the table because when I heard my colleagues, I had the impression that you had decided that on your own. It is good to know that all the parties of the majority have contributed to this proposal. However, I consider your answer to be an admission of weakness since you almost made my reply in my place by explaining yourself the difficulty of making this measure compatible with your strategic vision. You yourself say that this will have a budgetary cost and even called on your majority partners to pay attention to it. Trade union organisations are talking about EUR 100 million. You didn't give any figures, but I trust those of the unions. Like you, I do not understand that this measure is happening now without a debate – I agree with my colleague De Vriendt – on the tenability of the function. Of course, for us, this is unfair. We will not support it, and I will also table motions on the subject. I would like to ask you again, Madam President. I did it at the beginning of the session but I know that sometimes you have to hang on to the demands to get them. The military does not have the right to strike, even if they decided to protest on 15 November. I guess we'll be on the street next to them. But it would be important for trade union organisations to be able to be heard here before representatives of citizens and to express to them their discontent as well as their concerns. It is true that not all military personnel are going to do 7 more years, but some will. In any case, you cannot deny that we have delayed the pension age for this function. Finally, I stress the indignation that this measure provokes in me, through its injustice, since it still affects one of the regal functions of our federal state.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u70	Minister, I can only agree with the previous speaker. You said just now that a political game is being played when one pretends that the increase in retirement age is seven years for all the military. It is true that this does not apply to all military forces, but it clearly indicates that uncertainty is once again being created among the military. First of all, there is another change.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u71	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u72	Because of your decision. By your decision and happily throughout the government, as you have just indicated. Secondly, there is the link to the uncertainty that exists in the military. Mr De Vriendt has already referred to this. In my first interplay, I have already shown this. If there's any unrest in the military, it's not just a matter of reason. This is primarily due to the long-term way in which the military is kept on the streets. The second point is this decision in principle by the government you announced, which once again creates uncertainty about the retirement age of the military. You say it's a quote in the press. I agree, but that came out of your mouth. You have made a reference to the four criteria that the military must meet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u73	I'm in favour of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u74	You support that, but there is no certainty about that. I want to know how much budget there will be for the heavy professions and how many people will meet the conditions. Finally, as regards the link with the strategic vision, it is good that you have admitted that you have asked for a study on the impact on the strategic vision. In the strategic vision, you spoke of lowering the retirement age of the military, but the result will be that the retirement age will increase by 2030. That's the only conclusion that's gonna come out of that study.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u75	Thank you for your clear answer, Minister. Unlike the previous speakers, I am pleased with your answer. You have explained that this is a decision of principle taken by the whole government. Mr Top, you yourself are mayor. If you make decisions in your municipality, these are also decisions of principle that you pass on to your administration for further elaboration. There is therefore a need for consultation with the trade unions. You blame the government for applying a principle that you apply yourself in your congregation. The fact that we will all have to work longer is a certainty. The military will have to do the same. Some are against that, which is understandable. However, there are also soldiers who tell us that they want to work longer but have to retire at 56 years. Part of the military therefore has the will and demand to work longer, because they are otherwise at home. We have to listen to them, too. We must also take account of them. I think we should get rid of the fetish that someone who starts a career with the Defense Department thinks he can retire at 56 years and therefore starts thinking about his or her retirement after 30 years. There will also be mixed careers. That is something that we must get out of the minds of a number of people, and certainly of novice soldiers. Minister, I think that the transition measures will be very important. I understand from your reply that you will still have a lot of discussions to discuss. I trust that you will draw up these transition plans and that they will be clearly and transparently communicated with the trade unions and all interested parties. You're right, this will cost money. I'll make that clear to my constituents, too. However, if we retire soldiers at 56 years, it will also cost money to the state treasury and we will lose their expertise. I think we need to strike a balance in this respect. I believe that the intention behind this decision of principle is that we should rather keep them working and use their expertise so that they are not without purpose in their lives. So you have our support in the further development of this decision in principle.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u76	Minister, I fear for you that this may become the defence file for this period of government. It can de facto overwhelm all your other achievements. The government has effectively caused these problems by already communicating. I urge the majority of my fellow Members present to urge their Deputy Prime Minister to find a more equitable solution. What is now before us is totally unbalanced. You gave a very detailed schedule of raising the retirement age towards 2030, Minister, but there is nothing known so far about heavy-duty professions or horizontal mobility. We know the schedule and the retirement age, but in the meantime the military have no guarantee that they will be able to meet it by working a little longer. I read the communication of the CHOD, according to which everyone has to do their part. We will go along with that, but it must remain reasonable. There's no respect for the military. I would like to draw attention once again to the deferred remuneration, which is ultimately part of the same package. I'm very worried.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u77	There is still much work to be done, Mr President, and there is a need for consultation with all the actors involved, such as trade unions. For the future of Defense, we must watch over the rejuvenation of the age pyramid. We need to look at creative solutions, such as horizontal mobility in government, in order to make all this possible. It is good that you have ordered a study to know its impact on the key lines of your strategic vision. On the basis of this study, it is possible to examine where adjustment is needed and how we can ensure that the ambitions are met on the ground. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that everyone must play their part. This will be done in a gradual manner, because there will be a great deal of consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-26-54-commissie-ic516x.u78	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Julie Fernandez Fernandez and MM. Stéphane Crusnière, Sébastian Pirlot and Alain Top and read as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms. Julie Fernandez Fernandez and the response of the Minister of Defence, in charge of the Public Service, asks the government 1. if it confirms its unilateral desire to increase the retirement age of the military, to involve the military unions fully in this decision and its implementation; 2. if it confirms its unilateral desire to increase the retirement age of members, to take into account the penitence and peculiarities of the military career." A motion for a recommendation was tabled by Ms Julie Fernandez Fernandez and Mr Stéphane Crusnière, Mr Sébastian Pirlot and Mr Alain Top as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Julie Fernandez Fernandez and the reply of the Minister for Defence, in charge of Staff cases, calls on the Government 1. if it wishes to raise the retirement age of the military unilaterally, to involve the military trade unions fully in that decision and its implementation; 2. if it really wants to raise the retirement age of the military unilaterally, to take account of the gravity and peculiarities of the military career." A simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Peter Buysrogge, Tim Vandenput et Veli Yüksel. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Peter Buysrogge, Mr Tim Vandenput and Mr Veli Yüksel. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
