ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u1	Minister, this question was raised before the misadventure of our police officers at the French border occurred. I had deposited it in July, worrying about the problem of the influx of migrants in transit to England and near the Calais camp at the Franco-Belgian border. This is a rather worrying phenomenon since, according to the French authorities, we are talking about more than 10,000 people who would be present here. In this context, your colleague the Minister of the Interior has put in place a specific border control plan, the MEDUSA plan, which aims to circumscribe the passage of migrants from France to Belgium since some of them are seeking to use Belgian port facilities to attempt the passage to Britain. In this regard, the government, in which you participate, has taken an important decision by creating a new offence punishable in our legislation, against persons entering or entering a port without authorization. Minister, can you tell me how many people have been arrested since 1 January 2016 in the vicinity or in a Belgian port, and in particular the port of Zeebruges? What sanctions were applied to them until the law was changed? How will the procedure proceed from the moment the new criminality comes into force? How do you feel about the phenomenon of implantation near the Calais camp? In other words, do you think that this initiative taken by the government will help us from the moment the French government announced the dismantling of the Calais camp in the next three months?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u2	Thank you for your question, Mr. Pivin. In 2016, 5,826 migrant interceptions were recorded to date in West Flanders, of which 4,924 involved transmigrants attempting to travel to the United Kingdom. In and around the port areas, mainly in Zeebruges, a total of 2,984 interceptions are recorded. Sometimes people are intercepted several times. It is estimated that Eastern Flanders records one third of the interceptions of transmigrants in our country. I am not in a position to provide you with the national figures. Legislation on the criminalization of intrusion into port areas has been in force since June 2016. In the event of such intrusions, the prosecutor's office does not immediately prosecute. The person in question is first sensitized. He is told that this intrusion has become punishable and that she is bound to respect the law. If she enters again, she is given a summons to appear before the correctional court. If she recurs, she is brought before the investigating judge. As of July 2016, 28 people had been cited or brought in. In August, there were eleven. In September, two quotations have already been given. Since the entry into force of the Act, a total of eight persons have already been brought before the investigating judge and six of them have been arrested. All the arrested persons remained in detention until the trial because they do not have a known residence. Two people have already been finally sentenced to an effective sentence of six months in prison and a fine of 600 euros. A suspension of the sentence resulted in an appeal from the Public Prosecutor's Office. This week, the East Flanders Court will deliver a few more judgments. Justice and the police see the deterrent effect of the new legislation on the ground. We are now well aware that intrusion into port areas is criminalized and prosecuted. Last point: migrants who move from Calais to the Belgian coast and simply stay there are not liable to this criminalization.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u3	I don't have a reply, Mr. President. That is a complete answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u4	Questions Nos 13155 and 13157 of Mr Flahaux are transformed into written questions. We come to Question No 13301 by Mrs Jadin.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u5	Mr President, Minister, as you know, I pay particular attention to respect for the third national language which is German. My German-speaking fellow citizens do not hesitate to inform me of their concerns when they do not find, for example, the translation of certain decrees and laws into their mother tongue on the websites of federal organizations, or the Belgian Monitor. For all these reasons, I intervene fairly regularly on the subject. I know that the Malmedy Translation Centre, which does not belong to your department, is already working to provide a number of translations and, as a result, to eliminate a certain delay. However, I would like to ask you a few questions, Minister. What about translations of royal and ministerial decrees into the German language in your department? How many decrees have been translated by the latter since the beginning of this Parliament? How many full-time equivalents are in charge of translating the orders into German in your SPF? Finally, do you use the German Central Translation Service or external translation offices to prepare German translations of the royal and ministerial decrees?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u6	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, to the best of my knowledge, no decree has been translated into the translation service of the SPF Justice since the beginning of the legislature, since this service does not have German-speaking collaborators. The SPF Justice has entered into an agreement with the German Central Translation Service and is linked to a translation office through a framework contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u7	It's not much. As I said, Mr Minister, I think there is a certain delay and a need to be able to use certain texts, certainly in the field of justice, in the German language. I will come back with a question, and perhaps even with a solution, about this delay that has to be resolved. Other means, which are not linked to an increase in the budget, exist and could be devoted to it. Flexibility of translators can be seen in a much more fluid way than at present. That's not a good record.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u8	Your solution will be welcome!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u9	All right, there's no problem!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u10	Minister, on the night of Sunday 28 to Monday 29 August, several individuals forced the entrance of the National Institute of Criminalism and Criminology (INCC) and set fire to the wing of the scientific laboratories. If the extent of the damage has not yet been fully assessed, NCIC will not be operational for several weeks. In addition, several indicators and elements of past or ongoing investigations may have been lost during the disaster. According to the director of NCIC, the building, although equipped with surveillance cameras, was not guarded by any night guard, police or army. This incident, however, is not a first in our country: in 2012, the registry of the Brussels Court of Appeal had in fact been set on fire by an individual seeking to remove several evidence concerning him. In April 2016, it was the turn of the Institute of Pathology and Genetics of Gosselies to be assaulted by criminals with weapons of war and incendiary objects. Minister, do you have more details to date on the extent of the material damage and the possible loss of investigative records? Are specific safety and surveillance measures currently in place for the various scientific analysis laboratories? If so, which ones? Could any further strengthening of these measures be envisaged by your department in the near future? If so, what will be the modalities, and how many sites will be affected by these new measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u11	Mr. Chair, Minister, on August 29, the NCIC was the victim of a criminal attack that resulted in a fire and damage to part of the facilities of this important scientific centre in the search for judicial truth. Without going into details that could harm the investigation, can you clarify the following? Could the facts have been linked to one or the other case pending before the courts and tribunals? How have NCIC's activities been impacted by this criminal act? Has this affected the functioning of police or judicial institutions? What transitional solutions have been taken and how long can NCIC consider taking over its facilities? More generally, are special protective measures taken to ensure the safety of the various scientific services attached to the justice system and the police?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u12	Mr President, Minister, in August we heard the break-in with arson at the NICC via the media. There was a great deal of damage which seriously disturbed the operation of the institute. I'll come right to the point. What is the status of the investigation? Are there any concrete indications that a particular file was endorsed? Is there any connection to terrorism? What's the exact damage? Is there any sign of recovery? How much has NICC been hampered in its operation? It's already late September. Is the NICC still obstructed in its operation? What impact does this have on the ongoing files? Are there any files irretrievably damaged? What measures will be taken to improve the security of the NICC in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u13	Minister, I will also ask you two questions. I will thank you for repeating and repeating, since my questions have been reproduced by my colleagues. I would therefore like to ask you to answer all the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u14	Mr President, thank you for your exemplary efficiency. One day, she'll be legendary! First of all, I wish to point out that I deeply deplore the events at NCIC and strongly condemn them. The staff and partners of the Institute are severely affected. Indeed, this attack hit laboratories crucial to the work of justice. Psychological support to overcome this event has been put in place by the Justice FPS and via POBOS. I cannot go into the questions about the state of the investigation or whether the attack can be linked to a particular judicial file. The investigation is ongoing and more details cannot be provided for the time being. In the meantime, a complete inventory of the damage caused has been drawn up. It concerns Block B. The other buildings were not affected. The southern part of this block has been declared safe and released since then. The necessary repairs began through the Régie des Bâtiments. For the rest, the damage is mainly caused by soot and smoke. The northern part, which suffered the explosion and fire, will not be repaired. Indeed, the Régie des Bâtiments is working on a file to house the Institute in a completely new building. All laboratories and services stick together so that the NCIC can return to operation as soon as possible. From the square was released for temporary offices and laboratories, pending repairs of part of the wing assigned to the installation of containers offering office space for 32 people and 50 m2 of space for laboratory work. As to which laboratories have suffered the damage, I can tell you that the laboratory for the analysis of micro-trace, hair, diatoms and forensic entomology has been completely destroyed; the laboratories for genetic identification, fibre and textile analysis, analysis of volatile compound fires, analysis of fire residue, analysis of digital information and analysis of paints, glasses and safety inks have been damaged. Depending on the work undertaken by the Régie des Bâtiments, they will all become operational again in the coming days and weeks. Most activities will resume by mid-October. In recent years, NCIC has been focusing on digitization. Fortunately, its complete IT structure remained operational before, during and after the facts – which limited the impact. Contacts are under way between NCIC and the relevant judicial authorities to draw up a picture. Parts left in the labs were affected. As a result, many samples have become unusable. The only laboratory to have suffered the greatest destruction is the micro-trace laboratory. This impact is being examined by the judges concerned. As far as genetic identification is concerned, DNA analyses are temporarily outsourced. This will have only a limited effect in terms of duration: one to two weeks. The other laboratories will also be lagging behind, but limited, in terms of analyses and reports. With regard to the general security of the site, two points are important. On the one hand, since NCIC has the status of a federal scientific institution, it is under the supervision of Justice, but is independently managed through a management commission. It depends on the Régie des Bâtiments for its infrastructure, but can itself make strategic choices for other matters within the limits of the budget allocated to it. It uses this option to install security systems such as surveillance cameras and motion detectors and, for example, to use a private security company. The NICC has now itself provided surveillance, 7 days at 7, 24 hours at 24. Camera surveillance is also operational and will be strengthened in the near future. The fence will also be strengthened shortly. The Régie des Bâtiments will publish a call for tenders to secure the perimeter. On the other hand, there is the deployment of police and security services. These will only be used if there is a concrete threat. The level 2 shall apply to the NICC. In concrete terms, this means that there is no commitment from policemen but that the police do provide regular patrols. These patrols have been reinforced since the attacks at the end of March. With regard to exhibits in court buildings, I can assure you that there is a policy in this area. Security on the premises of the Justice Department is a priority. There is a specific technical programme for the storage of exhibits. Following the attacks of 22 March, the police were asked to work with the Defence to ensure the static security of the various buildings on Belgian soil. Individual buildings such as the NCIC were not specifically targeted, but, I repeat, the police have, despite everything, since the attacks, agreed to strengthen their regular patrols along the site. The description of all the necessary measures is included in a set of documents drawn up by the Infrastructure Directorate of DG OJ. These documents systematically provide the general guidelines and specific features of a security plan for designers, architects and engineering firms. As part of new construction and renovation projects, it also describes the topology of the building and its security facilities. This implies that, in the majority of cases, buildings, and de facto transplants, are equipped with access control and intrusion detection. For the most important buildings, a presence 24 hours a day and 7 days a week of employees "Monitoring and Management" completes the physical measurements. In these most important buildings, a surveillance camera circuit is available to the above-mentioned personnel. In addition, each training service is equipped with specific and secure storage furniture. In the event that such equipment is not sufficient, my Infrastructure Directorate shall provide as soon as possible any equipment requested by the local judicial authorities. The buildings concerned are on the one hand – and mostly – the courthouses and their annexes, including the justices of peace and, in a totally marginal way, some specific deposits for exhibits or archives, dead in the vast majority of cases. It is true that, in practice, we are dealing with older buildings that offer limited storage opportunities, and I am well aware of that. So we will try to solve the problem by storing exhibits in larger depots, but mostly installed on a secure site. With respect to the number of attempted theft or destruction of exhibits or court records, my administration is not in a position to provide accurate figures. Indeed, it is not systematically informed of such offences. Information is transmitted when there is physical harm to persons or infrastructure. However, there is a memorandum of understanding with the Home SPF, in order to collaborate in the implementation of the PACOS computer application, which aims to manage the flow of exhibits that will allow, in the future, to have an even more accurate view of exhibits present in palaces or depots. This, ladies and gentlemen, is my very long answer and, I hope, completes it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer even to the extent that I might ask for a copy of it later. I believe I understand that, fortunately, the impact has been relatively limited and that the necessary measures, even to new buildings, are being taken to ensure full security in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u16	Dank u wel, mevrouw Van Vaerenbergh. To continue to build my legend, I will not make a very long reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u17	Minister, with the latest state malformation, the judicial arrondissement of Halle-Vilvoorde was established. That has not become a full-fledged, but a handicapped judicial arrondissement. I warned during the discussions about a number of things that are taking place today. We also argued in favour of a court of our own. Following the launch of the new judicial year, Attorney Freyne of the judicial arrondissement of Halle-Vilvoorde, a man who has two years of experience with the new situation, also made a warm plea for his own court before Halle-Vilvoorde, to act more independently of Brussels and to be able to work more efficiently than is the case today. For the Brussels courts, Halle-Vilvoorde does not appear to be a priority at all, to put it mildly. The Brussels judges argue on the basis of the metropolitan problems in Brussels. Attorney Freyne gave the example of a burglar in Zemst who was caught in the act and who was simply released by the French-speaking investigating judge for non-priority reasons. Last weekend, we're writing a similar story to an angry chief of police in the papers. The agents of the chief of police of Kapelle-op-den-Bos, Londerzeel and Meise caught four burglars in the act, but the French-speaking investigating judge didn't have time to question them. They were released within 24 hours. I don't need to draw a picture that's demotivating for the police. Attorney Freyne also referred to practical elements of efficiency for the establishment of his own court in Halle-Vilvoorde, which we cited at the time. Among other things, the fact that parquet staff loses a lot of time by having to travel to Brussels over and over again. Minister, do you agree that the current organisation of the judicial district of Halle-Vilvoorde is not really optimal? What is your position on the plea by Attorney Freyne for full courts in the Halle-Vilvoorde judicial district? Do you think that's desirable? Will you take initiatives in this regard? I have one last question. As an interim solution, the prosecutor argues that the present Dutch-speaking court of Brussels should be partially located in Halle-Vilvoorde for certain correctness cases. What is your position on that? Do you think that's a good temporary solution pending your own court?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u18	Mr Minister, I agree with the previous questioner. At the beginning of the judicial year, the prosecutor of the Halle-Vilvoorde District Attorney indeed expressed the wish of his own courts in the Halle-Vilvoorde district. In doing so, he wants to avoid Halle-Vilvoorde coming under the Brussels sphere of influence and, despite its own parquet with its own priorities, remaining subordinate to the priorities set in Brussels. My party has already argued before its own courts in the conclusion of the BHV agreement, just to avoid the fact that the good work done by its own public prosecutors is not appreciated by the Brussels investigators, because they have a more urban vision. Mrs Pas has referred to a number of recent examples that speak to the imagination and lead to a lot of frustration. Moreover, I would also like to remind you of the staff transfer, which is still controversial, which weakens the Dutch-speaking Registry of the Brussels Court. The parquet of Halle-Vilvoorde already indicated that it wanted to continue. However, it was obliged to refrain from doing so, because the staff transfer to the Brussels courts did not provide sufficient staff. So, Minister, I would like to have your opinion on the question put by Attorney Freyne. What solutions are possible for the time being, without amending the Constitution? What is the current composition of the Halle-Vilvoorde parquet? How does she relate to the framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u19	Ms Pas, Ms Van Vaerenbergh, when reforming the judicial district of Brussels, the Brussels parquet was explicitly split vertically into a parquet for Brussels and a parquet for Halle-Vilvoorde. For example, investigation and prosecution policies can take into account the particular problem of the Brussels border. That objective has been achieved. A different logic was used in the court and today there is a Dutch-speaking and French-speaking court in Brussels, with no change in territorial jurisdiction. This has the advantage that the Dutch-speaking court in Brussels has and retains sufficient power, which is also in the interest of the Dutch-speaking cases in Brussels. At court level, no substantive prosecution policy can be pursued, so a vertical division would not have the same advantages as at the level of the parquet. The Brussels court is obliged to deal with the cases brought before the court by the court of Halle-Vilvoorde. This is also apparent from the figures given by the King's Attorney in the interview in question. He spoke of a triple of the number of cases brought to justice by the court. This is a serious and positive development, which has also proved possible with a court in Brussels. They focus here on the criminal work of the court. In addition, it should not be forgotten that the majority of cases before the court of first instance are cases dealt with by a civil court or before the juvenile and family courts. It is therefore necessary to ask whether the Dutch-speaking judge in Brussels and Flemish-Brabant is better served with a transfer to a court in Asse. Does that mean that the Dutch labour court and the court of commerce should move from Brussels? The question is also whether the partial seat of a court for correctional matters in Asse is a solution. Apart from the need to provide additional infrastructure for this purpose, including cell complex, the efficiency gains for the public prosecutor, as the substitute no longer has to commute, could be offset by the loss of efficiency in the court where the judge and his Registrar, or at worst three judges and their Registrar, have to commute for a hearing in which only cases from Halle-Vilvoorde can be dealt with. There is, of course, a certain continuity. We just set up the system. So it's very early to turn the Stevens again. However, I am very attentive to the suggestions, think very deeply about them, and I am talking repeatedly to the prosecutor, who is a very good prosecutor. At the end of September, the Halle-Vilvoorde parish had 22 magistrates plus the 5 French-speaking people seconded from Brussels on a 24-year framework. This is a framework of 92 %. However, at the end of April, two vacancies were published and the appointment procedure will soon be completed, so that the framework will be fully completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You are thinking very deeply about it, but it is clear from your reply that there are no immediate initiatives in the direction requested. I believe that this has to do with resources and savings rather than with efficiency gains, to which you have doubts. I am convinced that not only will a court of its own be more effective in this respect, but that it will also remove situations of frustration with the police today, such as the release of burglars, because they do not give priority to them in Brussels. I can imagine that there are matters of a different order in Brussels which should be given priority. However, it is a priority for the inhabitants of Halle-Vilvoorde to deal with burglars and criminals. In addition to this, the unjust and perverse effect that foreign-speaking perpetrators opt for the Brussels procedure much more, because they will then be able to rely on milder penalties. I urge you not only to think about this, but also to act in the direction requested by the prosecutor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased that you are attentive to the problem. However, I am very much inclined to reflect on the structure that exists today and to change it in the future. I myself come from Halle-Vilvoorde and I know how frustrating it is when victims of, among other things, burglaries are also faced with impunity. I am convinced that the installation of our own court will help us to deal with impunity, which is so frustrating to the people.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u22	Mr President, Minister, the investigation into the attacks of 22 March in Zaventem and Brussels is under way. At the beginning of this month, the lawyer of a number of Flemish victims of the attacks and their relatives complained that the judicial investigation was conducted entirely in French and that they had no opportunity to follow the trial in Dutch although one of the attacks, or rather both, took place in Flanders. This is due, among other things, to the fact that a Dutch-speaking investigating judge was first placed on the case, but the language role was changed. The case was handed over to a French-speaking investigating judge because the defendants are French-speaking. This is completely in line with the language used in court cases as agreed today. The fact that the language of the accused is considered to guide the definition of the language of the case seems to me to be a reasonable principle. It is their fault or innocence, and first of all they must understand the language of the case, but it is important that the victims and their families should also be able to follow the procedure in their own language. It seems that little or no account is taken of this. It is reported that the possibilities of conducting investigations and proceedings in two languages are currently very limited. Hence my questions, Minister. Firstly, to what extent can the research documents now be translated for the benefit of the victims? To what extent can further litigation take place at this time in both languages? Secondly, what remedies do victims and relatives have to enforce this? Thirdly, and finally, Minister, do you think that there is still a problem in this area? Are you planning to take initiatives? If so, in what sense? I'd like to express another concern. Of course, I fully understand the sighs of the victims, but they must not lead to another legitimate concern, in particular that the monolingualism of the court in Flanders, which is not yet complete, would be undermined again. What is your opinion on the idea that for such important cases involving perpetrators and victims of both language groups there should be bilingual judicial treatment when the case is dealt with in bilingual Brussels? I'm curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u23	Mr President, Minister, the investigation into the attacks on 22 March is indeed conducted in French, the language of the suspects. That is, of course, at the disadvantage of the many Dutch-speaking victims. It is a problem that not only concerns itself in a case of national interest, but also victims of, for example, burglaries, violence and the like from Halle-Vilvoorde are often confronted with French-language research files and French-speaking Brussels courts. A few years ago, there was another uproaring case about a violent robbery in Lot in which the young police officer Kitty Van Nieuwenhuysen died. Her parents then had to call on an interpreter to follow the trial against their daughter's killer. The defendant's language is decisive in our system. Translation of files may be a solution, but it takes time and money and some judicial investigations are already taking place very slowly. Minister, what initiatives can you take to give victims more language rights without crippling the functioning of the court or seriously delaying the judicial investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u24	Mr President, Minister, as has been said, the investigations into the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016 are still ongoing. The legal proceedings are currently under way in French. The procedure is conducted in the Brussels-Capital Region. According to the Law of 1953, this means that the investigation will then be conducted in the language of the accused.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u25	It's about the 1935 law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u26	That's right. That's not entirely illogical. In fact, there is a judgment on the guilt or innocence of the person concerned. In that sense, it is essential that he or she understands at least what he or she is being charged with. At the same time, we must honestly admit that this law takes far too little account of the rights of the victims. It is also important for the victims and their families to be able to fully understand the procedure and the process. I therefore support the call made by the various Flemish victims earlier this month to be able to be assisted in the process of terrorist attacks in their own language and to provide for the translation of their files. Minister, what is your response to that call? Do you support this one? Do you agree that the law should be updated and that due attention should be paid to the victims? In addition, here's another thing. You presented a draft law on the transposition of directives in this committee this morning. I've been going over the design. In itself, it could provide a solution. The only question is whether this design will be introduced in time so that it can provide a solution to the process that is now under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when victims are questioned, Article 47a § 1, 5° of the Code of Criminal Procedure applies. This provision states that if the person questioned wishes to express himself in a language other than the language of proceedings, either an sworn interpreter or his statements are recorded in his language or he is asked to record his own statement. Article 31 of the Law of 15 June 1935 on the use of languages in court cases also applies to the victims who have already been bourgeois parties. This provision states that in all interviews of the investigation and of the judicial investigation, as well as in the investigation and judgment courts, the parties who appear personally use the language of their choice for all their oral statements. It also notes that the parties who do not understand the language of the proceedings are assisted by an sworn interpreter who translates all oral statements. The cost of translations is borne by the Treasury. I would remind you that Article 31 was amended by the Act of 3 May 2003 following the Dutroux trial, where a similar problem arose. Article 32 of the Law of 15 June 1935 contains a similar provision for witnesses. Moreover, pursuant to Article 38 (10) of the same law, the civil party is entitled to request at its own expense a translation of any procedural document, judgment or judgment. Current provisions do not currently provide for a right for victims and civil parties to obtain a free translation of the documents of the file to which they have access. At European Union level, the reference standard for linguistic assistance to victims is the Directive 2012/29 laying down minimum standards for the rights, support and protection of victims of crime. The transposition of this directive for linguistic assistance to victims was launched in your committee this morning with a parliamentary document, which is number 54-2029. The draft law aims to strengthen linguistic assistance to victims in order to adapt our legislation to the directive. This draft law concerns the procedures for all criminal courts. It states that all victims must receive information about the court hearings in a language that they understand. In the case of victims who are bourgeois parties to proceedings of which they do not understand the language, they must be assisted by an interpreter at the expense of the Treasury. They will also be able to request the translation of certain documents in the file at the expense of the Treasury. In particular, the Directive provides for the translation of the pertinent passages of certain procedural documents necessary for the victim to exercise his rights effectively in the proceedings. I also have answers here to a number of questions from Mrs Van Cauter, who is not present. However, if I do not give all the answers, I may leave other questions unanswered. I shall therefore read out all the answers to all the questions. It's just reading anyway. I don't spare you, and you don't spare me. So this is my answer to Mrs Van Cauter's second question. It can be said at the same time that investigations into procedures in several national languages can already be carried out in practice, since the parties can make their statements in different languages and the possibility of interpreting and translating has already been laid down by the current provisions. Without prejudice to the above possibilities for interpretation and translation, a legal process is always conducted in one language. I do not know of any other legal systems where justice is done in several national languages at the same time. With regard to Mrs Van Cauter's third question, namely whether there could be a multilingual procedure in matters of national interest, I would like to draw attention to the need to ensure that victims are treated equally. A difference in treatment may be considered but must then meet different conditions under which the existence of an objective criterion justifying this is foreseen by law and has a certain degree of precision in order to ensure legal certainty. On Mrs Van Cauter's fourth question, in particular the use of the victim's language as a point of reference for the proceedings rather than the defendant's language, the following. Reference is made to the Law of 15 July 1935 on language in court cases. This law gives the defendant the privilege to choose the language of the procedure. After all, both the Dutch and French-speaking rules of our country know the rule that the defendant may request that his case be brought before a court in the other national language. In Brussels, the language of the procedure is determined by the suspect or, if there are several suspects, by the choice of the majority among them. Here too, the case can be referred to a court where proceedings are held in the other national language at the request of the suspect or at the request of the majority of suspects. The purpose of these provisions is to enable a suspect to understand what is being charged to him in order to effectively and fully exercise his right to defence. This is based on several international provisions guaranteeing the right to a fair trial, in particular Article 6 of the ECHR and Article 14 of the BUPO Convention. This starting point, the defendant's language as a point of reference, is an objective and understandable criterion. The choice of this starting point does not mean that attention should not be paid to the needs of the victim, especially in terms of linguistic assistance. Important steps have been taken in the last decade. I am thinking of the amendment of Article 31 of the law on language in court cases by the law of 3 May 2003, also called the Marchal Act. I can also recall the law of 15 December 2013 improving the position of the victim in the context of the execution of the sentence, which introduced an article 23a into the language law in court cases, and in which the victim who appears in person before the criminal court and does not understand the language of the administration of justice may ask to be assisted by an sworn interpreter who translates the whole of the oral statement. This Article 23a was recently amended by the Law of 4 May 2016 on Internment and various provisions on justice to allow such assistance from an interpreter also for the chambers for the protection of society. Finally, reference should be made to the Bill No 54-3029 on further transposition of the Victims' Directive as regards the provisions on the right to interpretation and translation, which will make an important further step towards improving the victim's position. This legislation is required to enter into force before 27 November 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, but fortunately the time of Coucke and Goethals, who were given a monolingual, French-speaking trial in Wallonia and were wrongly condemned, is well behind us. In the meantime, it is only natural for legislation to be drawn up in which processes are carried out in the local language. I am also aware that this will cost a great deal of money for the already precarious budgets of the Justice Department. I understand from an answer to a written question to you that last year alone, the costs of translation for the perpetrators, especially from Arabic to French or Dutch, amounted to EUR 7 million, amounting to EUR 19 000 per day. That one cannot translate everything and for everyone at the expense of the State, I fully understand that. However, I would argue in favour of a number of important matters of national interest, which can be perfectly defined and specified in a law, and which are dealt with in bilingual Brussels when perpetrators or victims of both language groups are involved, including for the victims a translation, and not at their expense. This is still a gap in the current legislation and in the initiatives you have announced.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u29	I agree with you, Minister. I believe that in such cases, where the victims have already experienced a great deal, it is important that they are able to follow the process properly. It is only natural that the translation should be made available free of charge in these cases. Perhaps, in general terms, we should not allow territoriality to be more involved in matters dealt with in Brussels than in the language of the procedure. This is a piste that one might be able to investigate further.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. As I said in part in my question, the European directive can probably provide an answer to the problem. You gave your answer fairly quickly, but if I have listened carefully, the legislation will enter into force on 27 November 2016. The discussion of your draft will take place a little later because it goes much further than the three country languages of our country. The directive talks about the language that the person understands. That could be any language. It is also stated that the cost of the Treasury's translation is to be borne by the Treasury. This means that there must be a serious budget for this, otherwise we will be in trouble. In any case, I am pleased that a solution has been found for the dossier on which we are dealing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u31	Joined Questions No 13397 by Mrs Fonck and No 13710 by Mr Maingain are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u32	Mr President, Minister, I had originally addressed this question to your colleague Mr Peeters from an economic point of view, but I am sure you will be able to provide me with an equally good answer. The question is about the payment period between companies. The Law of 2 August 2002 on combating late payment in commercial transactions was introduced by the European Directive No. 2011/7/EU strengthened with the aim of supporting small and medium-sized enterprises in Europe. The payment period between companies was fixed at a maximum of 60 calendar days, unless the term was contractually extended. The period of control and verification was also legally limited to 30 days, unless the contract allows for a longer period. The law introduces certain restrictions to ensure that large companies cannot abuse their dominant position. For example, it is only possible to exceed the maximum time limit, both in terms of payment and in terms of control and verification, if contractual commitments are made and provided that the contract is not manifestly unfair to the creditor. A judge may limit the time limit in the event of unfairness. That is the theory, Minister, but in practice smaller companies are obviously not inclined to sue larger companies for fear of losing their trade relationship. As a result, smaller companies often enter into contracts with very long payment periods, which could jeopardise the cash position of these companies. That is why I would like to ask you if you know of large companies that systematically use the legally permitted time limits to obtain a favourable payment contract. Are there any complaints about this? How many companies have gone to court over the past year to prove the unfairness of a payment term contract? In how many percent of cases did these companies get right? Do you know whether these problems also occur to the same extent in other European countries? If so, will this problem be discussed at European level? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u33	Mr President, Mr Klaps, this question was sent to me by the Minister for Economic Affairs, since the law of 2 August 2002 on combating late payment in commercial transactions falls within the competence of the Minister of Justice. As regards your first second questions, I can inform you that my services do not yet have any information on this subject and have not received any notifications in this regard. The question of the number of companies that went to court over the past year to prove the unfairness of a payment contract and the question of the percentage of cases in which an unfairness was actually demonstrated was contacted with the Statistics and Workload Measurement Support Service of the College of the Courts and Courts, which is investigating this further. Finally, I do not know whether such problems occur in other European countries. You may come back with a written question for the answer of the statistical and workload measurement support service.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u34	Mr Minister, I will, of course, ask the figures in writing. I can only assume reality. From the business world we regularly get signals from small companies that have major cash flow problems because they themselves have very short payment periods, while their large customers always extend those deadlines. This generates cash flow problems and even bigger problems. If a larger company becomes involved in bankruptcy, it will have an immediate impact on all suppliers, who have delivered stock but will never see their pennies. Of course, it is almost impossible or utopian to think that we can only tackle this problem in Belgium. We often play a leading role in Europe in a number of areas. This is, in my view, an excellent issue in which the European Union can bring great added value in order to tackle it. If we have looked at these figures together, I would suggest that we take an initiative towards Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u35	Questions No 13537 by Mrs Fonck, No 13681 by Mr Ducrame and No 13709 by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u36	Minister, my question concerns the lack of Islamic advisers in prisons. Since 1 March 2007, Islamic advisers have been empowered to intervene in prisons in our country to ensure a religious presence, provide moral and psychological support and answer the theological questions of detainees of Muslim faith or who wish to convert to Islam. This presence of Islamic advisers is now more essential than ever. Unfortunately, we know that some in prisons promote radical or even extremist Islam and try to recruit prisoners who often lack benchmarks. However, the prison administration has recently acknowledged that several prisons suffer from a lack of Islamic advisers. The newspaper La Dernière Heure, in an article on 9 September, cites the example of the prisons in Ittre and Forest "where several hundred Muslim prisoners can rely on only one full-time cultural player". This is obviously totally inadequate, especially since the Ittre facility is home to a special wing for radicalized prisoners. Minister, how many Islamic advisers are currently in operation in our country's prisons? How many full-time equivalents does this work represent? Is there a lack of Islamic advisers in all prisons in the country? Which facilities are particularly affected by this potential shortage? What is the prison administration doing to remedy this lack? Is there to date a procedure for the selection and appointment of such Islamic advisers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u37	Mr. Goffin, on 26 September 2016, there were 12 appointed Islamic Councillors for French-speaking prisons and 12 councillors for Dutch-speaking prisons. They represent a total of 16.45 full-time equivalents. The presence of an Islamic adviser is an important element in the fight against radicalization and extremism in prisons. In order to prevent this risk, the framework of Islamic advisers was increased from 18 to 27 full-time equivalents by Royal Decree of 10 April 2016. The hierarchical authority of the Islamic Councillors remains the Executive of the Muslims of Belgium, which proposes the candidates for the positions and their assignment. However, this does not prevent the administration of prisons from actively collaborating with the Belgian Muslim Executive on the qualities that these advisers must have and on the training they must follow in order to function at best. Thus, requirements for a degree, at least a bachelor's degree, preferably in the humanities and theological sciences, and a requirement for an excellent knowledge of the language of the place where they practise are required. In May, a first selection was made and the Executive will close a new oral and written selection in October with the aim of being able to hire the new Islamic advisers before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u38	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u39	Question No 13744 by Mr Goffin was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u40	Minister, a few months ago, in our prisons, two wings were set up to accommodate radicalized prisoners: one in Ittre and the other in Hasselt. The prison administration is responsible for the screening of prisoners. Placement in these specific wings is used only as a last resort, when the risk of problems arising from this proximity and promiscuity with other prisoners of radical ideas may be important. Opened in April, it appears that the wing of the Ittre Institution currently accommodates only four inmates. This provokes the astonishment of some actors, but is justified by the administration by "a concern for the effective screening of prisoners who could be transferred there". Several months after the establishment of these wings for radicalized prisoners, however, it is not interesting to take stock of their functioning. How many prisoners are currently incarcerated, respectively, in the specialized wings of Ittre and Hasselt prisons? How many inmates are currently being screened? What is the detention regime within these wings? Have all the actors involved in these specialized wings completed the specific training? After a few months of operation, how do you assess the implementation of these specialized wings?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u41	Mr.President, as of the 22nd of September 2016, 7 detainees are placed in the specialized wing of Hasselt and 11 are in Ittre. The results of the screenings, which I am going to talk about, will ultimately lead to the use of the full capacity of the two wings in the relatively short term. Seventy-five screenings have recently been carried out on a list of more or less 150 detainees: assimilated terrorists, foreign terror fighters and known radicalized detainees. The screening procedure aims to identify those detainees who are at greatest risk of contamination in terms of radicalisation of other more vulnerable prisoners. The screening is carried out by several members of the psycho-social service and members of the extremism cell. To do this, they rely on: - available judicial information; - information from the local prison and information from the intelligence and security services; - exclusion criteria, such as ideologies that are not inspired by jihadism, women, internees and - any contraindications, such as the presence of a serious psychiatric problem, the inability to place the inmate with another or other inmate(s). The opinion of the central SPS and the extremism unit is therefore always the result of an overall assessment of the inclusion criteria, on the one hand, and the exclusion criteria and contraindications, on the other. The specialized section regime is a community regime but separate from the rest of the prison: a common preau but separate from other prisoners from the prison, for example. On the basis of individual decisions, the detainees staying there are, if necessary from the point of view of safety or the risk of proselytism, placed under special security regimes or measures, in accordance with the provisions contained in articles 110 to 118 of the Law of Principles. Specific internal regulations for both sections have also been drawn up. With regard to training, monitoring staff, SPS members and management received specific training in the fall of 2015. As for the evaluation of these structures, it is still premature to carry out it, given the too short opening period, and the occupancy rate of these specialized wings.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u42	Thank you, Minister. I will come back a little later on this first evaluation, when time has done its work somewhat.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u43	Mr President, Minister Willy Borsus, Minister for Social Integration, recently stated that he had contacted you because he had decided to lift the professional secrecy of social workers in order to fight terrorism. According to him, social workers who suspected their beneficiary of being linked to terrorism would be obliged to disclose that information to the courts. A bill would be completed and voted before the end of the year. It is important to know whether or not a bill is coming, given that a bill on the subject will come back with an opinion of the Council of State on Friday in the committee responsible for the fight against terrorism. However, it is known that bills have priority over proposals. Mr Borsus said that he was working with you to initiate this legislative amendment. The aim is to include in the Code of Criminal Investigation a new provision which would give the King's prosecutors the power to request information, particularly from CPAS, when they find terrorism offences. The prosecutors general are in your favour, but for the three CPAS federations, the subject seems more delicate than we think. Indeed, they do not want a professional secrecy at the discount and therefore a legislative amendment. They would, on the other hand, like better communication of the data available in the Social Security Carrefour Bank to the judicial authorities. For CPAS, professional secrecy is governed by article 458 of the Criminal Code and the Organic Law of CPAS. Respect for professional secrecy is one of the basic principles of social work, which can only be derogated from in very few exceptions. Minister, can you give us more information on the advice of the Attorneys General on this matter? Would it not be more appropriate to improve the reporting of data available in the Social Security Carrefour Bank to the judicial authorities rather than to amend the law? Are you working on a bill in collaboration with Minister Borsus to make this change in professional secrecy?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u44	Mr President, Mr Massin, the representatives of Valerie Van Peel, Sarah Smeyers and Karolien Grosemans of the N-VA have introduced a bill amending articles 36 and 50 of the Act of 8 July 1976, the Organic Law of the Public Centres for Social Action. The purpose of this legislation is to require members of the CPAS staff council to provide the investigating judge with information about persons who are the subject of an investigation into terrorist offences and to release them from their professional secrecy. The proposal was set out in the Temporary Committee on the Fight against Terrorism. Its members have decided to collect information and advice, including from me, my colleague Willy Borsus, who is responsible for social integration, the College of Attorneys General and CPAS federations. In the meantime, my strategic unit had already prepared, in close consultation with my colleague Borsus and in collaboration with the College of Public Prosecutors, a bill introducing a right of requisition for the Public Prosecutor's Office and the investigating judge with regard to social security institutions. It is proposed to include this right in the Code of Criminal Investigation. CPAS assistants may, upon request from the Public Prosecutor's Office or the investigating judge, disclose administrative information to the judicial authorities in connection with their investigations into criminal acts, including terrorist offences, but also certain offences under the Social Penal Code. The College of Attorneys-General sent a proposal for a text based on the above draft to the Chairman of the Committee on the Fight against Terrorism, Koen Metsu, with a view to possible amendment. For my part, I informed President Metsu that I wanted to support the advice of the College of Attorneys General. On the other hand, the possibility of giving the judicial authorities direct access to the Banque-Carrefour de la Sécurité sociale in the course of their investigations may, however, also win my approval. Moreover, I drew the attention of the College of Attorneys General to this possibility. I believe that steps have already been taken in this direction. However, this does not preclude certain information from being included in the Social Security Carrefour Bank. According to the authors, these would be, inter alia, claims that did not result in the granting of an allowance. In this regard, a right of requisition for the Public Prosecutor's Office and the investigating judge could still make sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u45	Mr Minister, as a first step, it seems to me that this bill – but we will probably talk about it again in this Parliament – which is acceptable to you and which was intended to amend the Organic CPAS Act has been "retarded" by the Council of State, because this subject is not within the competence of the federal state. Rather, the Code of Criminal Investigation should be changed. Amendments were filed. But we are in the context of acts of terrorism, which was the reason why this bill came out of the Justice Committee to be sent to the commission in charge of the fight against terrorism. If we extend this to acts of social fraud, what you are implying is, in my opinion, outside the framework of the Committee on the Fight against Terrorism. I therefore assume that the proposal will come back to the Committee on Justice. I understand your restriction in fine, which seems to be open to discussion. Letting the social worker judge social fraud or the act of terrorism seems difficult to me. A great deal of caution will have to be exercised in this regard. On the other hand, virtually all the elements are found in the Banque-Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale, except in the absence of a grant, i.e. refusal decisions. If it only concerns decisions to refuse, I believe that to seize the ball at the leap, they can be included in the law or in the clarifications. This approach, if submitted to the CPAS federations, would perhaps allow them to reconsider their decisions. But according to your comments, as things stand at present, the matter must not only be the subject of debate but, in any case, what will be proposed on Friday is not yet fully mature.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u46	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, discussions would be ongoing with the judiciary on the establishment of greater managerial autonomy. In terms of the distribution of budget allocations between the different courts and courts, a number of ideas seem to be circulating. One of them would be to allocate the envelopes according to the results achieved by the court. With this system, an entity that would deal more quickly with cases would eventually be rewarded with budgetary incentives. This mode of operation based on a logic of results intended to encourage efficiency and productivity raises a number of questions. It is necessary to avoid the unfortunate scenario of unmanageable competition that would penalize the justiciable who, by definition, does not choose the court that will judge him, as well as sloppy work situations in order to save time. Minister, can you confirm this information and, if necessary, give us more details about this reform project? What are the approaches envisaged at this level and what are the ones you prefer? Is a system of bonus and mali between jurisdictions envisaged or is a system based solely on a possible bonus more advanced? What measures have already been adopted to avoid possible distortive effects at the expense of litigants?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u47	Mr. Chair, Mr. Calomne, I confirm that discussions are under way with the colleges on the introduction of greater managerial autonomy. The subject under discussion is the model for allocating budgetary resources between the different courts or prosecutors. Various proposals and approaches are under consideration and each partner in the consultation formulates proposals for a future distribution. At this stage, there is no single model. It is important that a balanced allocation model be found, a model that can guarantee minimum certainty and make possible solidarity between the courts in order to be able to assist, in a flexible and rapid manner, a court that would face a sudden increase in workload or a decrease in available staff, and stimulate the effectiveness of service delivery to the litigants. Different criteria are being studied. In this context, it is necessary to assess the incoming workload, as well as the work provided and the existing distributions. An allocation model based solely on results is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u48	Minister, thank you for your answers. I'll come back to you when you have more details and a more accomplished project.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u49	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, several cases have come back to me from practices in certain police areas during a car theft. Indeed, when a car is found, it seems that some Brussels police areas systematically call a private company to impound the vehicle. Indeed, the abduction of a car is only done by decision of the police. In the cases referred to, however, no reason could justify such abduction. They were stolen and found in places that did not interfere with traffic or pose a danger. The cost of this abduction is high, 250 euros per day. However, if this happens during the holiday period and the owner does not show up immediately, the bill can be very salty. Therefore, is it normal for these victims to bear the costs of kidnapping? One of these cases was decided as a result of the complaint filed by the owner of the vehicle and the latter was successful. Shouldn't this case law be followed through a circular? Minister, what is the policy in case of stolen and found car? What about this case law? And do we have to let the police do this and make the owner very expensive, who, failing that, can't get his car back? I have, of course, tabled the same question for the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u50	Mr President, Mrs Lalieux, the particular problem of the removal and storage of stolen and subsequently recovered vehicles covers different hypotheses. First of all, I would like to inform you that the police do not take any initiative in this matter. Any removal of such a vehicle requires a notice to the prosecutor's office, which can be reached 24 hours a day and 7 days a week, and a decision of the prosecutor's office. This is in fact a competence of the local public prosecutor's offices, whose implementation is entrusted by request to car-guarding companies approved by the public prosecutor's offices. The first hypothesis envisaged is that of a stolen vehicle which was subsequently used in the course of the commission of a criminal offence and which, as such, requires a technical or scientific police analysis. If the magistrate considers that the vehicle should be removed as evidence that can be used for the manifestation of the truth, the costs of kidnapping and guarding are, as in the prospect of confiscation, costs of justice until the seizure is released. Ministerial Circular No. 62ter on criminal justice costs determines the tariffs for the removal and guarding of vehicles, which apply to all approved troubleshooting companies. Other cases concerned the abduction of stolen vehicles in the context of a simple theft of use and for which the magistrate did not consider it appropriate to seize a court. However, these decisions of the Public Prosecutor's Office do not release the police services from ensuring, within the framework of their administrative police duties, the maintenance of public order, in particular the protection of persons and property. In almost all cases, stolen and abandoned vehicles have the use of anti-theft devices out of service, which, of course, exposes them to a new abuse which should be avoided as a good father of the family. It is also not uncommon for these stolen vehicles to have been abandoned because they were involved in a traffic accident. They then present either significant degradations that make them dangerous to other users, or constitute an obstacle to traffic or a target for various degradations. In some cases, it is also necessary to know the date of the theft of the vehicle, since, after a certain period of time, its owner may have obtained compensation under a flight insurance scheme and transferred his insurance in civil liability to a new vehicle. The stolen vehicle may also be uninsured, which, legally, requires its seizure, abduction and guarding. In all these cases, the costs of removal and guarding are always borne by the owner or his insurance. In conclusion, the decision to have a stolen vehicle towed is not abusive as long as the vehicle constitutes an obstacle or makes traffic dangerous, the vehicle is no longer insured, the necessary on-site checks cannot be carried out, the owner cannot be reached immediately or the owner cannot search for the vehicle immediately. As for the costs of such troubleshooting, I am not aware of any amounts such as those you mention, i.e. 250 euros per day of storage of a serviced vehicle. Any undue amount can, of course, be challenged if necessary in court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u51	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, this is a person who is a victim, whose car was stolen and then towed by the police, and who then has to pay a fee and will never be compensated since the file is closed. He filed a complaint against the area by contesting the bill for the towing. The court has given him reason, because it is not upon him that these costs must fall. You're explaining to me that it's on him that these fees have to fall. I think we should think about this, especially if there is court case law. The costs of the courts are also the responsibility of the person, since the thief will never be found. Maybe we should think about another solution. The person is doubly victimized. She hasn't already stolen her car, and then she may be paying 4, 10 or 20 days of storage for her car because she's not even informed because she's, for example, on vacation. That is a problem. Perhaps we should reflect on this issue as Minister of Justice. In any case, that is what I am asking you today, because the State has been condemned in relation to these costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u52	Question No 13604 by Mr Peter Vanvelthoven is transformed into a written question. The same applies to questions Nos 13754 and 13756 by Georges Dallemagne.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u53	Minister, I had tabled this question in June, but I could not come to ask it. I didn't see she was out of the agenda. It deals with a rare case of moral harassment at the NCIC. I've already asked you about that. The responsibility of the State was also taken on 8 March. It was found, among other things, that the FPS Justice did not protect the individual or react when he became aware of the harassment. Following a question I asked the minister at the time – it wasn't you and it was a long time ago – the mandate of the Director General in question had not been extended due to ongoing judicial proceedings. However, the guilty party appealed against this judicial decision. I say the culprit, since he was convicted the first time. You could say "the alleged culprit." He was successful because the judgements had not been final. Currently, he is still in the management of this institute. Minister, the judgments are now final. An evaluation of this mandate is to be carried out next July. That has been done. The victim has just learned that court decisions would not be taken into account for the current mandate. However, other cases of harassment are known, for others with the same person. Minister, if, because it is not final, the judicial decision, even of such gravity, cannot be taken into account in judging a person's behaviour, and if then the same decision can no longer be taken into account because before the mandate under assessment, tell me what defence is left to the victims of a harassing person or leadership. This means that, even when one has a positive judgment, it is felt that this judgment should not be taken into account in the evaluation. Moral harassment is an unknown evil that is not sufficiently taken into account in the management of a group of workers. It destroys the victims in a lasting way, as we know. Not taking into account these decisions that I'm talking about seems to me to be a serious mistake. According to the decision of the Labour Court, this reveals a fault committed by the State. Minister, what about this case? Is it closed or not at NCIC level? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u54	Mrs Lalieux, it is true that the Brussels Labour Court delivered a judgment condemning the Belgian State in a case of moral harassment at work. This judicial decision has consequences arising from the judgment, both with regard to the victim and the author and the institution, which are examined by my collaborators with great attention. An evaluation of the NCIC Director is underway. In this context, I will discuss, together with the first evaluator, who is the Chair of the FPS Justice Steering Committee, all the elements, including the judicial decision. While it is true that, in the past, several cases of moral harassment at work have been opened for various persons employed at the NCIC, I note that to date no formal cases are under way within the department's internal protection and prevention department at work. Of course, I remain attentive to the situation of the workers in the department and to their well-being at work. This is an ongoing concern, which I share with the Chairs of the Executive Committee and the new P&O Executive Director.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u55	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u56	Mr Minister, an investigation was asked of the Supreme Court of Justice, which was mainly intended to compare the performance of our courts of appeal, in particular the relationship between incoming and outgoing cases and the number of judgments per counsellor. This investigation was recently completed and now it appears that the Supreme Court of Justice could not obtain an answer to all the questions. For example, the question of the number of judgments per councillor could not be answered everywhere. The HRJ has not immediately established a ranking of the courts of appeal but has indicated trends in average lead times, both civil and correctional. However, there is variation in the numbers. It is striking that Brussels performs the least well with an average of 908 days in civil matters and 452 days in correctional matters. It is also concluded that if more action is taken on civil matters, criminal matters are at the expense of them and vice versa. The Brussels Appeals Court also submitted the 2013 and 2014 working reports far too late. The HRJ Council reiterates the lack of reliable figures and accurate and precise personnel data. Minister, I have four questions. Firstly, are you planning interventions to ensure that these data are kept more systematically and centrally in order to achieve more reliable statistical data? Secondly, is a damaging influence on criminal matters found when more is being devoted to civil matters and vice versa? Thirdly, what is the cause of the slow progress in Brussels? Fourthly, what are the consequences if courts of appeal do not submit the operational reports or are they too late?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u57	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, there is currently a central registration of personnel data at the FPS. However, it has a static character and focuses mainly on career management. My administration does not have sufficient individual data on the employability of staff to use the existing staff application as an interactive tool for average staffing or staff planning calculations. Moreover, as the report states, many days of illness of magistrates are not passed on to the FPS because there are few legal rules. Medex disease control applicable to other judicial staff shall not apply to magistrates. This also gives a distorted picture of the effective presence of the magistrates. However, as a result of the independence of the judicial organisation, I have opted to improve the staff management tools for magistrates and staff members, as well as the e-Person project, so that the basic data are established in a uniform manner. Further phases will have to allow a better understanding of the effective availability of magistrate and personnel through local registration. The Supreme Court of Justice itself states that shifting emphasis to one type of case is likely to be accompanied by the withdrawal of magistrates from one sector to another. According to the needs of the civil or correctional department, the first chairman can divide the work among his counsellors. For example, the Brussels Court of Appeal has a high number of pending cases, but there is a large difference between the 11 000 civil cases and the 1 500 criminal cases. So it's about shifting the focus by the first president. The rotation time used in the report reflects the time needed to deal with all pending cases at the same production capacity. The high rotation time for the Brussels appeal court is mainly due to the high number of pending cases in the court. However, the report states that during the same period the number of pending cases, including civil cases, fell from 13 380 in 2008 to 11 000 in 2013. In 2010, there was a greater decline due to the application of the automatic deletions, in application of Article 730 (2) of the Court's Code, but over most years more cases have been dealt with than they enter, also due to a low influx of new cases. All courts and courts are legally obliged to deliver their operating report to the Supreme Court of Justice, the Minister of Justice and the Legislative Chambers. However, there shall be no penalty if a court or tribunal fails to do so. It is not up to the Minister to judge the duties of a first chairman.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I only note that there is still a great deal of work to be done in terms of the lead time if we want to achieve the ambition of the coalition agreement, namely a one-year lead time in all levels of jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u59	Questions Nos 13803 and 13887 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu and Mrs Van Vaerenbergh have been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u60	Minister, I have three questions. They were merged, but it's three different questions that are all about COIV. First, the renewal of the Director's mandate is scheduled for 10 October 2016. The person concerned was appointed in April 2014. The same director proposed a 25-point plan for the reform of COIV before the summer holidays. Some points are more technical in nature, others are political. I have already questioned you about this, but at that time you felt it was too early to make an assessment of it. In addition, you had asked for an opinion from the College of Attorneys General and still had to follow consultations with the Home Office, as a number of cases could have a significant impact on police working methods. Minister, will the current Director's mandate be extended or are there any counter-candidates? Was the opinion of the College of Attorneys General on the 25 reform proposals obtained in the meantime? If so, what is the tone of that advice? If not, when can we expect that advice? Has there been any consultation with the Home Office on the reform proposals, particularly those relating to police working methods? Finally, depending on the answer you will give me, what is the current state of play on the reform proposals? Will these proposals be dealt with? If yes, within what time limit? What proposals are not being accepted? Secondly, you will remember that a call for tenders was launched in 2012 for the development of an accounting programme for COIV. The COIV was founded in 2003 and manages many millions and goods that were confiscated and forfeited, but did not even have its own accounts. You will remember the newspaper articles about all diamonds in a drawer without a label showing whose diamond was. If anything ever had to be returned, it would be very difficult. The call for tenders for the accounting programme would have been awarded. This is evident from the annual report of the FPS Justice Department. However, there would have been a delay in implementing the accounting application, because a lot of historical data had to be migrated and comments had been made during the test phase. It would be put into operation in the course of 2015. It's been a while. On the basis of an evaluation of the results of the operation of that accounting programme, you would consider whether an internal audit would also be necessary for COIV and whether this could provide added value. There are also recommendations from the Court of Auditors to this effect, which would be re-examined to see if everything would be okay. When did COIV effectively put the application into use? Was the award of EUR 450 000 exceeded or not? How do you evaluate the application? That is particularly important. I suspect she'll be in use for about a year now. On the basis of that evaluation, will you or will you not make the decision to carry out an internal audit at COIV? If so, why? If not, why not? Mr Minister, have you been able to check the Court of Auditors' recommendations in the light of the functioning of the current accounting system of the COIV to see whether everything is in line with the accounting system of a state institution? If so, what conclusions have you drawn? If not, when will that be planned? Then I'll come to my last series of questions. It concerns the making available of seized goods by COIV to the police. We know that sometimes criminals are better equipped than our police forces. Good equipment is always important. Therefore, since 2014, pursuant to Article 9a of the COIV Act, there has been the possibility to make seized goods available to the police. Last year, at a press conference, it was announced that a specific vehicle had been made available to the police by a drug dealer, which would enable the police to intercept its companions. At that time, it was said that the project had a symbolic value, because it was now going to fight the criminals with its own resources. For example, Hackers could be tracked through supercomputers that the Justice Department would have seized from other hackers. I find that very interesting. Mr Minister, how often have goods actually been transferred to the police by COIV since the entry into force of Article 9a? Then what's it about? Are these just vehicles or also supercomputers, with which one can start hacking? I'd like an overview. Minister, if the number of goods is limited, for what reasons is the possibility hardly being used? What initiatives do you take to make the possibility more frequent? Finally, can goods seized by COIV be made available to federal services other than the police? If so, how many times has that been done? What goods were they? Which federal services were they given to? If not, will you consider extending that possibility? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u61	Mrs De Wit, for once I will be more concise than the questioner. I apologise for that, but that does not concern you personally. Debates of the European Parliament 13842 deals with the possible extension of the Director's mandate and the functioning of the COIV. In reply to questions 1 and 2, I inform you that the current Director's mandate expires on 10 October 2016. The vacant position of director at the Centraal Organoor voor de Belgelijkse Staatsblad of 22 September 2016 was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 22 September 2016. Anyone who fulfils the legal requirements, as a magistrate within the Public Prosecutor's Office, may apply until 7 October 2016. In accordance with Article 17 of the Act of 26 March 2003 establishing a Central Body for the Confiscation and the Declaration and laying down provisions on the stable management of confiscated property and the execution of certain property transactions, the Director shall be appointed by the Minister of Justice on the advice of the College of Attorneys-General for a period of five years. In reply to questions 3, 4 and 5 of the first question, I can tell you that, on the basis of the reform proposals proposed by the director of COIV, work has continued and is in a final stage. It is very likely that certain proposals will not be taken into account in the end and that other elements will be added to the text so that the modernisation of COIV could continue. A completed draft should be able to be submitted to the Inter-Kabinette Working Group without delay, suggesting that a parliamentary debate could be held in early 2017. Debates of the European Parliament 13843 concerns a new accounting system for COIV. It was planned that a new accounting application would be put into service in COIV on 1 June 2015. The project was suspended at the request of the Director without a new date of placing in service since then. The old accounting system is still in service. In view of the importance of the amounts committed, I will ask the director of the COIV, who will be appointed, to do everything in his power to ensure that the new programme can be launched without delay and that any necessary adjustments are made. In reply to your question No. 13844 I note that so far only one vehicle has been made available to the federal police. The reasons for this limited success are frequent. There are strict legal conditions that strictly limit the number of potential assets. Not every vehicle can be made available. Moreover, there is the fact that it is always necessary to allow the investigating judge to pass an seized goods on to the federal police. Apart from the federal and local police, there are no services eligible to receive an asset from COIV. I will ask the director of the COIV who will be appointed to take that process up again in any case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u62	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I had really hoped, after all the fuss in 2014 and before, with the new director, the announcements and with all the fuss that has been there, also with your predecessor, with the accounting system, that we would finally be so far. Apparently, we're a long way from being there. I'm a little disappointed in that. I'm very sorry. There is a new legislation, which makes anything possible, I am thinking of those vehicles and of the fact that there is no accounting programme. I am really looking forward to the draft texts for those 25 reform measures in early 2017. The accounting programme proved to be a very essential one. We leave an audit to be done, but we are in fact still on the spot. I am very sorry about that and I am sure that I will follow up on this dossier further.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u63	Questions Nos 13853, 13854, 13855 and 13856 by Mrs Uyttersprot have been converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Lachaert has also converted 13864 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u64	Mr President, Minister, this is a follow-up question, because together we have asked you a number of questions about the central notification points for drug addicts in our prisons, last time, I believe, at the committee meeting of 15 June. You said at that time that the Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions had prepared an adapted professional file that intended the temporary renewal of contracts for those CAP debt instruments. You also said at the time that the Flemish administration had not completed its analysis of the question of competence. In the meantime, we are a few months ahead and I would like to ask you the following. Firstly, has the Budget Minister's cabinet in the meantime taken a decision on the new professional file? If so, can you explain the decision? If not, what is the timing? Secondly, what is the state of play in the analysis of the issue of jurisdiction?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u65	Mr President, Minister, I agree with the questions put by the previous speaker. The CAP is important. If we know that almost half of the prisoners have a problem with drugs, then these entry points in prisons are indeed essential. After all the fuss in the spring that they should stop, we did indeed ask a number of questions. I, too, would have liked to have heard from you about the state of play in the CAP in the Flemish prisons. How are the drug addicts being helped any further today? What is the working situation of the CAP staff, who are in danger of being thrown out of business? Is there also a similar problem with regard to "you will have a better view of this in the Brussels and Walloon prisons? What is the status of the appeal brought by DG EPI? If there's a verdict, what does it say? I have the same question about the division of powers. There is one more thing I would like to know, Minister. A scientific study would be carried out on the effects of CAP action in prisons. There was supposed to be a final report. That is, of course, important to judge. I was wondering if that final report was there yet. So what are the main conclusions? I would also like to get an update on the consultation with the Public Health Office. Can they intervene in the provision of drug aid or not? Finally, Minister, there were a number of experiments in three different institutions. Could you please explain to me what these experiments are all about? Which three institutions were chosen? If there's no news on that yet, please have a timing. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u66	Mr President, Ms Lahaye-Battheu, Ms De Wit, at the end of February 2016, the contract with the Flemish Association of Treatment Centres for Drug Addiction (VVBV) ended with the establishment of the central notification point in Dutch-speaking prisons. The contracts with Fédito wallonne et LópezAmbulatoire du Solbosch concerning the CAP operation in French-speaking prisons in Brussels and Wallonia, the so-called "Points de Contact döorientation et döccompagement pour usagers de chemues en milieu carcéral," also ended in mid-September. Earlier attempts at temporary renewal of these contracts were subject to a negative opinion from the Finance Inspectorate, against which I appealed to the Minister for the Budget. On 6 September last I received the decision of the Minister for the Budget. Unfortunately, this one was negative. The negative decision is justified on the basis of doubts as to the federal authority's competence with regard to the intended provision of services. According to the rapporteur, it is appropriate to obtain a prior legal opinion on this matter. A second argument concerns objections to the application of public procurement legislation, whereby the proposed simplified negotiated procedure with publication would exceed the financial threshold and would be incompatible with the actual monopoly situation of the VVBV, referred to in the file. Finally, budgetary concerns are also raised in view of the failure to allocate the funds requested for the CAP under the 2016 budgetary control. In its conclusion, however, it should be noted that, in order to ensure continuity in anticipation of this, if the intended service could not be provided internally for the time being, the possibility of extending the current external service could be envisaged, provided that it is possible to comply with public procurement legislation. This still seems to open up a temporary extension based on the monopoly position of the current service providers. I have instructed the Directorate-General for EPI to examine a new dossier on the basis of this decision and to prepare for a temporary extension, for the central entry points in both Dutch and French-speaking prisons. The Purchasing Service is preparing this. On the issue of jurisdiction, the Flemish administration has indeed sought external legal advice from an independent law firm. However, this opinion has not yet been ratified and released. However, the powers of the Communities in the field of drug aid, including inmates, cannot be denied. The question is whether there is a shared competence and, where appropriate, what elements. Indeed, certain activities of the CAPS can also be included in the federal jurisdiction, such as the provision of information. In any case, the temporary guarantee of continuity of operation seems appropriate from the point of view of federal loyalty. You will understand, however, that I am not in a position to guarantee continuity without the approval of the Finance Inspectorate and without a positive decision by the Budget colleague. Finally, I can tell you that discussions on the long-term future of drug aid in or from prison will begin in the Health Cell in October. To this end, we are also waiting with interest for the final recommendations of the PROSPER study on the impact and evaluation of CAPs. The final report was scheduled for November, but a short extension without additional funding was allowed for delivery. The pilot projects to which you refer fall outside the context of the CAP operation, but aim to offer intra muros therapeutic guidance and drug assistance in certain prisons following a screening of the detainees on a possible addiction problem and provided appropriate medical framework at the level of prison health services. My colleague from Health took the lead in this and recently an information and consultation afternoon was organised with the regional executives of the intended prisons and with drug aid actors. It is, however, premature to draw any conclusions from this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u67	Mr President, Minister, I would like to thank you for your reply, which means that seven months after the closure of the notification points there is still no solution and that the different levels continue to take negative decisions against each other. I am thinking in particular of the prisoners with a drug problem, either existing at the time they went to prison or grown inside the prison. They have nowhere to go today. I can only regret that and hope that common sense will prevail among those who can solve the problem, at any level in this small country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u68	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. What strikes me is that, on the one hand, people say that they are not competent and, on the other hand, many initiatives are being taken at the level of health. I think we should just decide for once so that we can at least work. After all, this is a very essential thing. One goes to jail addicted or one goes out addicted. That can't be the intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u69	Question No 13875 by Mrs Thoron is postponed. Question No 13886 by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh and Mr Van Vaerenbergh Mr Vanvelthoven's 13888 were converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u70	Minister, I hope that you will be able to provide some clarity, and perhaps some rest, in a dossier that has not taken a good turn in the last two days. In the meantime, one of your services is playing a leading role. The file was discussed at great length, also across the street. There would be a letter, but in the meantime we know that there is a letter from the State Security about the possible participation of a Chinese state-owned company in Eandis. Quite a few people are shocked that the security of the state would deal with such a thing. I'm surprised. I think it is perfectly logical that such a dossier should arouse the interest of the State's security. It is also their mission to protect our economic potential and our distribution network. In the future, these will be the veins of our economic fabric and the backbone of our economy. It is therefore a good thing that the security of the State is dealing with such matters. I understand that you will not read out the state security file from a to a, but since there has been confusion in the heads of some of you, a Prime Minister, in that case, about the competence of your services, I would like you to explain a little more about what has happened and what has not happened. In the meantime, we have had access to a letter. I'm assuming that such a letter doesn't just come into being. Perhaps you could tell us a little bit more about that. Not only is that letter told, this is not of course great news that a state-owned company has links with the Chinese Communist Party. That seems reasonable to me, although some people apparently needed a freshening up of Chinese politics. The letter also states that there might be links to intelligence services. There is also a risk that certain technologies here would be used for military purposes. I therefore believe that the content is important, but there is doubt about that. A prime minister said it was a piece of paper. I think you'd better tell me what the back office of that piece of paper is. How did your services work on this? There is no doubt about an important service such as the security of the state, how they work and what they do and what they do and what they do not do. I would ask you to put Geert Bourgeois out of his misery. I have just heard the meeting in the Flemish Parliament. Mr Bourgeois complained that, as Prime Minister, he was not contacted by the State Security. Only two of his ministers were contacted. Minister, this dossier will normally take a number of important steps in the coming days. Geert Bourgeois has said that his door is always open and that he wants to continue talking about that file with the State Security. Are you and your services prepared to sit with the Prime Minister, the Flemish Government and Eandis on that dossier before the general meeting on Monday 3 October, so before the municipal authorities will finally take up their position? For me, this is the most important question, namely that the cinema ends, that there is no longer any doubt as to what the security of the state does or does not do, that everyone's file gets the attention it deserves and that you take part in your responsibility, to take care of rest in the file and to ensure that everyone is aware of it before the general meeting on Monday 3 October 2016. Are you prepared to organise such consultations? Geert Bourgeois states that he hasn't been contacted yet, but that his door is open. Would you put the Prime Minister out of his misery?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u71	Minister, the Prime Minister's statements this morning were incredibly cynical and relentless. It is unworthy of a Prime Minister to talk in such a way about the security of the State, whether it is the mission of the State's Security to protect our economic interests or the task of protecting terror or any mission of the State's Security. After all, it is an important task of the State's Security to protect our economy, including against espionage. It is in that context that the letter, on which so much is to be done, was written. Mr Minister, first of all, is the State's security still on the table? Is there any further investigation? Secondly, if, for example, such a dossier appeared in our neighbour France, the intelligence services would be directly involved and would give their advice, which should be taken into account immediately. With us, the M.O. is different. Should we not think about adapting the system in our country? Thirdly, what is your response to the Prime Minister's statements? What is your response to the criticism expressed by the VVSG, in particular that the letter did not appear in the proceedings until the very last moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u72	It is indeed correct that on Friday 23 September 2016, State Grid Security addressed a note containing information about the company State Grid and its possible participation in Eandis to seven recipients. The note was carried to the Prime Minister's address on the same day, as well as to the Federal Ministers for Energy, Home Affairs and Justice. This was done on Monday 26 September 2016 by the Flemish Energy and Home Government Ministers. The letter was sent to the VVSG by mail, also on Friday 23 September 2016. The Security of the State states that purely practical reasons lie at the origin of the different time of delivery. It is clear from a first reading that the ministers and persons responsible for the matter are in agreement with me. A phone call made by my cabinet to state security on Monday confirmed that all seven of them were addressed. A follow-up meeting between Mr Raes and myself took place on Tuesday morning 27 September. He had not mentioned the matter in question in our previous conversation on 19 September. The note in question was finalised on 21 September. Where the Security of the State receives information relevant to certain services and authorities in the context of an investigation, it shall provide that information to the services and authorities. Because she had obtained such information in connection with State Grid, the State Security, in accordance with its legal obligation, sent the note in question to the Flemish and the Federal Minister of Energy. The Minister of the Interior and the Flemish Minister of the Interior are recipients for their assignments relating to the protection of critical infrastructure and local government policies. The Prime Minister was appointed for his role as President of the National Security Council. I myself, as overseeing minister for intelligence, systematically receive all such notes. The chairman of the Flemish Association of Cities and Municipalities was also informed, representing the local levels of government. Each of the registered persons could use the information from their own jurisdiction, since it is a note with limited dissemination and in the introductory part of the letter it is clearly referred to Article 20 of the Royal Decree of 24 March 2000. Any of those persons may also, without a doubt, contact the Security of the State and ask for explanations, orally or in writing. Mr Raes and his services are prepared to do so at all times. During our discussion on 27 September, Mr Raes informed me that the timing of the note was explained by the need to obtain permission from the Australian intelligence service, which, in similar circumstances, had to deal with the assessment of a Chinese majority participation. You ask me about the framework and procedure within which the State's security moves in the file as well as in similar matters. The legal framework was laid down for this in 1998. In particular, it is up to the State Security to detect, monitor and control certain threats and risks to the vital interests of our country. The protection of scientific and economic potential is included. Moreover, the State Security Action Plan, adopted by the National Security Council on 13 July 2015, also mentions the approach to foreign interference by defined countries. I will not go into the underlying file. That's not for me. Nor will I provide any information other than the relevant information that I have given you today about our discussion on 27 September last. It is for Mr Raes himself to judge, in accordance with the legislation, what may or may not be communicated, but it is clear that the method of communication chosen, namely a note with limited dissemination, was intended to allow the use and sharing of information. That is why the note is so short. If it had been a classified letter, very confidential, then he would have been much longer, but then no one could have done anything with it. That's an important nuance. Finally, I would like to make myself an interpreter of the security of the State, who finds the lightly criticised to her address undeserved. However, it will not prevent it from cooperating constructively on the questions and investigations which it will be asked and asked for in the next few days.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u73	Mr. Secretary, I'm rather practical. I certainly understand, given the sensitive information, that it is important to respect and know the frameworks. At the same time, I would also like to be practical and pragmatic. I believe that you are right that the security of the State feels a little misguided in the matter and that better words could have been chosen, certainly by the Prime Minister, but you should be able to take an initiative to bring those involved around the table. I have just seen the debate in the Flemish Parliament. Even though the Flemish Parliament likes to talk about matters on which no one is competent, it is certainly hallucinating to see the Flemish Parliament discussing a particular note and to hear the Prime Minister say that he was not called. Please do not be a question of egologists and bring those involved around the table before Monday, before the moment when everyone can and must take a decision on Chinese participation in conscience. Some will probably agree, others will not, but this must be done with the information available. Would you like to take the initiative in that? That's the only possible ending to a not-so-beautiful episode. I don't know if you'd like to engage in such a consultation. I would also like to respect your reservations, Minister, but you also understand that you are very clear on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u74	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The reason for this is that the information at the disposal of the State Security can be used and shared by those who have to have access to it and who play an important role in the file. You have said that anyone who has been signed up has the opportunity to contact State Security to get more information. The use and sharing of information was the intention of the State Security. I hope that our officials in the file will do the same. As my colleague has already said, it is not possible that the somewhat different timing of sending the letter is the cause of the critical reactions, whereas we should actually be working on the content of the file and the information provided by an important service, such as the State Security, should be taken to the important meeting of Eandis next Monday. I hope, Minister, that with the clear answer you have given today, all the noses will go in the same direction and that there will be cooperation on the dossier, rather than opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u75	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, Mr Calvo, I do not like working with the band in the lead. Yes, you do. I believe that I may again be an interpreter of the State's Security when I say that it will do everything in its power, and I will help to achieve an organized conversation over the unfortunate communication of the last few days with all the competents, in all discretion necessary for that purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u76	I would like to thank you for that, Minister. I think it would really be a good thing if the information were to be shared correctly by Monday. I'll give you one more element. I don't want to force you to make substantive statements. I have noticed that you have made a reference to the interaction between the Belgian Security of the State and the Australian colleagues. This also makes sense, given that there has been a similar attempt at operation, even wider and more intensive than the participation here in Flanders. Eventually, the Australians decided not to do such an operation. Maybe they didn't do that. I can't verify that on the basis of intelligence services. I think it's okay that that communication took place. Hopefully it will lead to the same conclusion being drawn in Flanders as in Australia.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-28-54-commissie-ic497x.u77	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Cauter's 13924 has been postponed. This concludes our work for this afternoon.
