ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic460x.u1	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, in a report published following his visit to Belgium from 14 to 18 September 2015, the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe, identified several issues concerning the inclusion of persons with disabilities in our country. Among these, the Commissioner deplores the way in which people with psychosocial and intellectual disabilities are cared for and detained in Belgian prisons. They are currently reportedly about 1,000 prisoners in the psychiatric annexes of prisons in Belgium. In 2014, women accounted for 9.4 per cent of the total number of prisoners. This issue has already been raised by various international bodies in the past. The European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment (CPT) of the Council of Europe has found the conditions of detention of these persons to be most often inadequate: overcrowding, lack of staff, overmedication... Furthermore, it is a matter of great concern that persons considered by the courts as criminally unaccountable and subject to treatment are detained for an unlimited period of time in a penal institution before being transferred, where appropriate, to a specialized institution such as a social defence institution. Finally, it seems that the care provided to these persons in prison is largely insufficient to enable them to improve their health and also to transfer them to a specialized institution. Madam Secretary of State, have any contacts been made with your colleague, the Minister of Justice, concerning the conditions of detention of persons with disabilities, particularly in the context of the reform of detention? What did they lead to? Are concrete measures finally envisaged to address this issue raised by the Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic460x.u2	Mr Delizée, the Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights, Mr Nils Muiznieks, visited Belgium from 14 to 18 September. The visit focused on human rights in the context of asylum and migration issues, the rights of Roma and Travellers, and the rights of persons with disabilities. The Human Rights Commissioner tabled his report on 28 January 2016. He called for greater social inclusion of persons with disabilities and commented on the way in which persons with psychosocial and intellectual disabilities were cared for in Belgian prisons. The decision of detention or internment must be taken by an expert psychiatrist in the courts. In concrete terms, at the Council of Ministers on 13 May 2016, the federal government gave its consent to the realization of a master plan for prisons. With this plan, the government wants to reduce prison overcrowding and renovate prison infrastructure. It also intends to make it more suitable for the reintegration of prisoners and to offer alternatives to the application of conventional sentences. On 13 May 2016, the internal masterplan was also approved. It defines the policy of care for internees. For all internees who stay in prisons, a suitable infrastructure will be set up, in which they will receive personalized care and support in accordance with human dignity. In prisons, 1,432 places will be built or renovated for prisoners. For internees, an additional capacity of 860 places is foreseen. This master plan therefore envisages the achievement of a global vision that aims to respond to overcrowding and infrastructure problems, inhumane living conditions in certain establishments and problems of support for internees.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic460x.u3	Madam Secretary of State, thank you very much for your answer. We have read the master plan for prisons and the Minister's statements on the need to reduce overcapacity in general. My question is about the detainees who are in psychiatric annexes, even though they would be renovated. When you say that the infrastructure will be installed and that 660 places will be provided for interns, what is the deadline?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic460x.u4	Mr Delizée, I cannot answer you for the moment, because I must ask the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic460x.u5	Of course, I can also question him, but I draw your attention to the particular nature of these people, some of whom should not be in the prison appendices. That's really the bottom line. Adaptations must take place today or tomorrow, but not in five or ten years. We know that construction and renovations will take a lot of time. I therefore stress the current state of care which is considered insufficient by many experts. A review is required on a case-by-case basis in order to remove persons from correctional institutions who should be in other types of institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic460x.u6	I'll talk to Mr. Geens about it. You're right to draw my attention to this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic460x.u7	Mrs. Winckel just came in. She's late, but for once we'll be gentle because normally you have to be on time. We'll have to make an effort to be on time, Mrs. Winckel.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic460x.u8	My excellent colleague was speaking out.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic460x.u9	I know, Mrs. Winckel. I know other committee chairmen who would decide to delete the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic460x.u10	I know a President who is very flexible so that colleagues can ask their questions, especially if there is a consensus in the Conference of Presidents to hold a plenary meeting at the same time as the committees and we need to move from one to the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic460x.u11	Mrs Winckel, may I ask you to respect your speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic460x.u12	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, when a parking card reserved for disabled persons expires, because of the death of its holder or simply the expiry of the expiry date, the public authorities rely on the goodwill of its owner or relatives to return it. But, in fact, we know that this is not always the case. As part of an oral question dated July 7, you told me that about 200,000 parking cards belonging to deceased disabled people were not returned to DG People with Disabilities. These outdated or unauthorized cards are therefore in circulation in our territory and could be used fraudulently. You said you wanted to look at measures that would better control the return of these cards. A specific specification had to be drawn up by your administration in order to produce a system to combat fraud in this sector effectively. Madam Secretary of State, has your administration launched this specification? If so, could you tell us what it is and what the different steps are? You also mentioned the technological means used by foreign countries to prevent a parking card from still being used after its holder's death. Has a study been conducted on experiences in these countries? What practices should be retained? Have any meetings ever taken place with Minister Jan Jambon in charge of the police services on this issue? Could collaborations be considered?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic460x.u13	Mrs Winckel, thank you very much for your question. A Request for Information (RFI) has been published to launch a new market for parking cards. Through this RFI, we want to gather advice and information from relevant actors in the design and manufacture of technological solutions, such as the Radio Frequency Identification, which allows us to control the use of parking cards. To this end, a consultation has already been organised on the possibilities for data exchange with the Banque-Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale. It was also decided to set up a resonance group to give the various actors involved in parking problems the opportunity to express their views on the measures to be adopted for the better use of parking areas and to combat certain forms of abuse. A first consultation with this resonance group has already taken place. In a second stage, a specification will be drawn up on the basis of information gathered by the RFI and taking into account the comments of the resonance group. This specification will have to be published in the course of January 2017, with the aim of being ready for the conclusion of a new contract in early July 2017. As of September 1, 2016, parking cards issued will already be subject to some changes allowing for more effective control. We will also examine whether, after July 2017, old cards in circulation can be replaced by a new model. To this end, an initiative was introduced for the 2017 budget discussions. I can confirm that consultations were held with the Jambon cabinet, first of all, in the debate on the main tasks of the police. Although the control of parking cards is not considered to be such, some bodies, such as those of Courtrai and Antwerp, pay particular attention to them. The consultations also focused on the possible adoption of SAC legislation (municipal administrative sanctions) so as to allow for the imposition of heavier penalties for these offences. As part of the resonance group, a representation of private parking companies was involved in the debate on this type of contravention. At the initiative of my office, a European survey was carried out, considering the conditions for granting, the practical management and the control of parking cards. A wide variety of practical aspects on the ground has been observed between the different member countries. With regard to the control component, several countries do not incorporate any control technology. This is the case for Luxembourg, Malta and Portugal. Photographs and holograms are used in other countries. In this context, our initiative to incorporate a two-dimensional code (QR:quick response) into the parking cards that will be issued from September 2016 seems to be quite innovative, even in Europe. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic460x.u14	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. The problem is the high number of expired cards in circulation (200 000 cards), with latent fraud in many cities, resulting in people who would really need them finding no parking space. It would be good to be able to move faster. It's been over a year. I have no doubt that you have advanced, but here you are announcing a new device for another year, since the new device will be put into practice from July 2017. The only thing I plead for is, if possible, to implement this new system as quickly as possible. I heard that the new cards would be issued with QR codes, etc. Good, it's already a step forward. But for the global system, I really advocate that it be put in place as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic460x.u15	So from September 2016, there are QR codes on the new cards? That's unbelievable! I haven't seen any Secretary of State do that. Congratulations, Madam Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic460x.u16	Madam Secretary of State, parents of children with disabilities may receive a supplement. Before I start, I would like to make a comment, Mr President. By the way, I have made this point before. This question was submitted on 9 May. I think it's...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic460x.u17	The Secretary of State has five powers and must be present in five different committees. We do not allow the Secretary of State to come to this committee for a question. We are waiting for a number of questions. Now I think there are 12, and that seems to me to be a sufficient minimum.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic460x.u18	I understand that, and I agree with that. However, if we now see how many people are present, this may have to do with the fact that some of the questions are simply no longer topical. I just want to say this. I'll come back to my question. For parents of children with disabilities, Madam Secretary of State, it is possible to receive a supplement on child benefit. To this end, an examination is needed of an auditor of the FPS Social Security, who determines the severity of the disability. Apparently, the waiting times for these investigations are getting huge. It sometimes takes months, let me tell you, before such an investigation can take place. Moreover, the child has already undergone similar studies, which may raise the question of whether such additional research is necessary at all. Are you aware of this problem? How much delay are we talking about? How long are the waiting times? Do you intend to take measures to eliminate this delay? Does it consider that such an investigation is useful, whereas the disability of the child has actually been determined before? Can the results of previous studies not be used to calculate this additional supplement? In what way will this problem be taken into account if Flanders reformates child benefit? When my colleague asked Minister Vandeurzen this question on 26 April last, the answer was rather vague. But you may already know something, Madam Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic460x.u19	My administration and myself are aware that too long a period of treatment can cause problems in the payment of family allowances. The handling periods are therefore monitored on a permanent basis. This is done in consultation with Famifed and the Directorate-General for Persons with Disabilities. Official revisions are started six months before the expiry of the recognition date in order to avoid interruption of the payout. In 2016, the average period for the treatment of an application for supplementary family allowances is 3.4 months. In 2015, that average was still 3.62 months. By the end of April 2016, the number of supplementary child benefit files handled was 7 157 files, which was 7 907 files by the end of 2015. Of course, that outstanding balance should not be interpreted as a delay, but merely as an indication of the workload. The supplementary family allowances files must be adequately supported by medical reports, especially as an initial application not only evaluates the current situation, but also the five preceding years as provided for in Article 120 of the Coordination Act of 19 December 1939. That evaluation can only take place if detailed medical reports are included in the file. Retrieving and collecting these reports often leads to a longer treatment period. An evaluation of the limitation of an adult usually takes less time because only the current situation is evaluated. There is, however, an urgent procedure which allows us to deal with certain dossiers very quickly. The treating doctor or parents can indicate on the application form that they want an emergency procedure because of a particularly serious pathology. The legislation provides for this possibility by the Royal Decree of 28 March 2003. There are also good agreements with the social services of various university hospitals so that my administration can quickly have the necessary medical reports. Especially in the case of children with leukaemia, some dossiers can be decided within 24 hours. The medical evaluations carried out with a view to obtaining additional family allowances shall be carried out by the administration at the request of Famifed in accordance with criteria laid down by that authority. There is regular consultation between the administration, Famifed and the various regions. If the regional authorities consider it useful, they can always consider an adjustment of the application process. I do not have any additional information on the grading systems within the Flemish social protection system referred to in Parliament's question 1852. However, there is already a lot more on-the-job work than on-the-job work. We mean that much more is being done on documents and not always on personal files. Over the past year, we have tried to evolve towards working much more piecemeal than on personal agreements, because this is causing a very great delay.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic460x.u20	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, your explanation convinces me even more that, in my opinion, the problem is extremely complex and complex. If we are to try to make this administration easier, we must also look here at ways in which this can be done more easily. The fact that there is no knowledge yet of the way in which the issue is taken into account in the reform of family allowances seems strange to me. So we will have to play ping-pong a few more times between the Flemish and the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic460x.u21	Madam Secretary of State, I had submitted the question a while ago and expected it to be merged with Mrs Jiroflée's question, which has already asked the question. Apparently something went wrong. Or perhaps it is due to the fact that you come into five committees. I have already read the answer you gave to Mrs Jiroflée. As a result of the increase in living wages, the income replacement allowance for more than 100 000 people with disabilities is lower than the living wage. At the time, you replied to Mrs Jiroflée that your administration is working on the necessary budget documents to add an increase to the 2017 budget. So I only have to ask for a state of affairs in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic460x.u22	Mrs Willaert, in the context of the reform of the tax shift, a system was developed which reduces the burden on labour income. However, account was also taken of the fact that some persons do not receive income from employment and therefore need a social correction. In concrete terms, the Council of Ministers of 28 August 2015 included in the budget notification that an envelope of EUR 50 million would be provided for the social correction of VAT reforms. The financing arrangements for this envelope were to be decided at a later stage. The Council of Ministers of 11 October 2015 then decided to apply the social correction of the tax shift to the living wage, income guarantee or IGO and the lowest pensions. A proposal had to be drawn up to divide the envelope between these three categories. Therefore, this effectively resulted in an increase in living wage of 2% from 1 April 2016, while income replacement benefits could not be increased as they were not envisaged by the notification of 11 October 2015. In addition, no additional budgetary resources were available in the 2016 budget format to provide for the increase in the income replacement allowance for the time being. That is the past, but in this context, my policy cell and myself have been working on drawing up the necessary documents to provide for an increase of 2% in income replacement in the current budget negotiations. It can therefore be clearly stated that my policy cell and I are taking the necessary steps to initiate an increase in the IVT in the government, so that by increasing the IVT there will be a return to living wage levels. The sheet is in for the 2017 budget format and will be discussed before the recess in the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic460x.u23	I therefore hope, Madam Secretary of State, that the entire Council of Ministers will follow you and allow the increase. Now there's a big discrepancy. The risk and also the logical consequence is that all concerned are actually entitled to a supplement from the OCMW if they are under the living wage scheme. However, this means additional burdens for local authorities. In the context of the automatic allocation of rights, of course, we hope that those involved will find their way to the OMCW, but on the other hand it is almost cynical to say that this cannot be the intention. The injustice that the minima do not fully match must be corrected. I therefore hope that this will be done quickly. It's too bad it couldn't be done this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic460x.u24	We are firmly in favour of correcting this unfortunate situation. We do hope that it will be all right. I can only say that it was a less good experience of the previous discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic460x.u25	Mrs Jiroflée, your two colleagues have not yet shown themselves. However, you can start in peace. We'll see if they're still coming.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic460x.u26	Mr. Chairman, are you sure? Then it's good for me. Madam Secretary of State, we visited the Ombudsman on Wednesday 8 June 2016 in this Committee on Social Affairs. Mrs De Bruecker and Mr Herman reported on the problem of late entry into the social tariff for energy for people with disabilities. As early as 2012, the Federal Ombudsman recommended the General Energy Board of the FPS Economy to ensure that every final customer belonging to a legal category receives the social rate from the start of the decision, on the basis of which the final customer becomes a residentially protected customer, and not only from the first day of the quarter of the date of the decision. However, that remains a problem. It was a report from 2015, which dates back to 2012. However, it remains a problem. In 2015, another eight cases went to the Ombudsman. We assume that they are just the tip of the iceberg. In reality, therefore, there are many more cases. In a number of cases, it is also a question of not paying the retroactive social rate, which should, however, be legal. A simulation has been made regarding a normal family with normal consumption and the cheapest supplier. In that case, it is already a loss of EUR 270 per year. Of course, that amount increases with suppliers with an average price. For vulnerable people with very low incomes, this is therefore about a considerable bite out of their budget. The Ombudsman states that there is no legal obstacle, but that it is purely administrative kafka. He put it literally. These are also the questions that cause me the most frustration when we know that it is actually all right and that we cannot do anything about it on the spot. Madam Secretary of State, however, my question is whether you will address the matter. What will you do?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic460x.u27	Mr President, Mrs Jiroflée, in reply to your questions, I can say that both I and the Social Security Office fully share the wish that the social tariff for gas and electricity should be granted retroactively from the date of entry into force of the right to a concession as a person with a restriction. However, my colleague responsible for Economics and his administration has responsibility for determining the rules of access to the social tariff and for monitoring the evaluation. However, my administration already communicates the effective date of the right to the Crossroads Social Security Bank with each electronic data exchange. For this purpose, the FPS Economy always has all the necessary information to be able to apply that social tariff retroactively. To comply with the recommendation of the Federal Ombudsman would require an amendment to the Royal Decree of 29 March 2012 laying down the rules for determining the costs of the application of social tariffs by electricity undertakings and natural gas undertakings, and the rules for their discharge. The models of those certificates are annexed to the Royal Decree. It is not desirable to issue a paper certificate systematically for each dossier on which a decision is taken. In addition to not insignificant costs, the delivery of paper certificates creates an additional administrative effort for the person with disabilities, which is completely avoided in the case of electronic data exchange. In this context, I refer to the only-one legislation of the Administrative Simplification Service. I already wrote to my colleague Marghem from the federal government last year to apply this only-once principle to our social energy tariffs. With regard to the automatic allocation of social rights, my IT policy cell held consultations with the Crossroads Bank for Social Security (KSZ.) During the past few months, the KSZ worked several times on the so-called buffer database. This is a database that is regularly fed with selective data from authentic sources combined with data from the National Register. One of these sources is the DG Persons with Disabilities of the FPS Social Security Office. With the necessary authorisation from the competent Privacy Commission, it should be possible for the gas and electricity companies to consult this database in the coming months so that they can verify whether or not the customer is entitled to a social tariff.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic460x.u28	Madam Secretary of State, I understand they're working on it. That's comforting. You say: provided the Privacy Commission agrees. I assume that contacts have already been made on this? I also assume that this will be done in 2016 and that we will no longer read this in the Ombudsman's report in 2017. We shall look into that at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic460x.u29	Madam Secretary of State, on 28 April 2015, the Federal Public Service Social Security, the Support Point for Combating Poverty, Insecurity and Social Exclusion and the Crossroads Bank of Social Security presented some practical examples of electronic data exchange at a conference to enable the automatic allocation of social measures to persons with disabilities. A number of measures have already been granted automatically, but at last year's conference you committed yourself to substantially expanding automation in the short term. Let me give you some examples. The automatic tax reduction for certain categories of persons should have been in place by 2015. There was a pilot project with the city of Antwerp to automatically offset the tax discount in the company tax for the employees who have a person with a disability in their family. Also for people with a disability who are not owners or co-owners of a property, the Regions could automatically apply the right to reduce the property tax. Municipalities and provinces which grant an exemption or a reduction in the municipal or county tax or a premium to persons with disabilities could apply those measures automatically in the long term. This should be possible from autumn 2016. It is also about automatic entitlement to the social telephone and internet tariffs. The abolition of the paper certificate for the social gas and electricity tariff regime still needs to be improved. Can you give me an overview of what has already been achieved over the past year and where further steps can be taken? To what extent can the automation of rights for people with disabilities open the way to a more general automation of social rights for all? Since you are also Secretary of State for Combating Poverty, I am thinking, for example, of the exemption or reduction of the municipal or provincial tax for persons with a living wage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic460x.u30	Mrs Willaert, the transmission of automated data on persons with disabilities within the social security network has been a fact for years, but it has to be noted that automated data exchange has increased considerably since the Social Security Office and the KSZ made available the consultation of the disability database in 2014. The increasing use of the available web applications and the dynamics generated by the further modernisation of derived rights have led to the following automations. Firstly, a modernisation of the social telephone and Internet tariff rights. Secondly, a modernisation of the exemption on the contribution to purification and the status of protected customer in Flanders. Thirdly, the housing companies of the three Regions consult the FPS Social Security Office to ensure certain aspects of their assignments, for example the provision of social loans, the renting of social housing, the sale of social housing and social plots and the award of premiums. Fourthly, the automatic calculation of the withholding tax by the Federal Pension Service. Fifth, the modernisation of the grant of study grants in Flanders. Finally, the communication of data between the Social Security Office and the regional institutions responsible for disabled people, e.g. the VAPH, AViQ and PHARE. The municipalities and provinces may already receive information about their residents who benefit from the increased benefits in sickness and invalidity insurance. A large proportion of people with disabilities, by the way, enjoy this. The aim is to provide them with the possibility to consult other social charters with the right to increased insurance coverage in 2017. The city of Antwerp still has to define its needs in relation to the pilot project to compensate for the automatic tax reduction in the company tax for the employees who have a person with disabilities in their family. The Crossroads Social Security Bank has been coordinating the project since 2015...Harmonised social statutes and additional rights.................................................................................................................................................................................................. It is intended to facilitate the provision of information on certain statutes, with verified data, from the authentic source and well updated, to bodies authorised to do so by a sectoral committee. The awarding authority will thus be able to obtain the necessary and most up-to-date information so that it can easily decide on the granting of an additional secondary legislation. The performance and information that the so-called buffer database, which I mentioned earlier, can provide within the Crossroads Social Security Bank, will also enable certain awarding bodies to grant certain derived rights automatically. You are, of course, aware that hearings are also taking place today, which will be taken into account in the context of your resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-commissie-ic460x.u31	Madam Secretary of State, it is indeed a good thing that you mention our resolution again, with which we do indeed hope to be able to put a number of things together and ask the government to take further steps forward. What has happened in recent years about people with disabilities shows that it can be done and that can be an example for others. For example, I would like to hear you announce that the consultation for municipalities and provinces should also be opened for other statutes from 2017. I believe that this is going in the right direction. I hope that it is something in which we can take steps for these people beyond the borders between opposition and majority and beyond the boundaries of the political game. This is very important and can really make a difference for the people it's about.
