ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u1	Madam President, Mrs Lalieux, rest assured, you will have answers to all your questions. I have only considered it useful, following the question put by the chairman of the committee, for once, and this time it has been possible to make a decision at political level, then to communicate to the workers concerned, which seems obvious to me, and then, before we go to the media, to come to Parliament. In that sense, I hope this will be appreciated for once. What's it about? A lot of questions are asked in this committee about the Army Museum, regular questions about the CDSCA and the Institute for Veterans IV-NIOO.Never questions about the NGI. As Secretary of Defense, I am responsible for four parastaals, each with its own statute. The coalition agreement states that we would look again at a number of issues, with which we would like to give substance to the continuation of the services that these parasiticals perform. It is perhaps appropriate to refer to the government agreement of 10 October 2014, which states that the future, the place and status of the IV-NIOO, the CDSCA, the KLM and the NGI will be considered. We have therefore instructed several neighbourhood groups to evaluate the current organisation of the institutions concerned and to optimise it with a number of general principles. A first principle is to eliminate the parallel tasks that occur in several organisations. There are a lot of parallel tasks in the government. Consequently, a number of process-based activities will not be regrouped on the basis of whom, what, where. Efforts will also be made to create maximum synergies in the areas of facility management, procurement management, staff management, IT policies, and so on. This will limit the number of public functions as a whole in the new structure and allow us to concentrate as much as possible on the core tasks of the institutions concerned by either strengthening certain tasks or removing certain tasks. This was, of course, based on the expected budgetary rhythm, with each of the institutions facing declining subsidies year after year, and with the aim of achieving more true results with the same money. It is therefore not about the dismantling of services, but rather about the better development of a number of services. Where there is a great deal of work to be done, services must be brought to a close and within a tight budgetary framework. Then we come to the process followed in drawing up the global reform plan. Mrs. Lalieux, you're asking a specific question about the Army Museum. A lot of questions are being asked about the Army Museum. This is also the most expensive parastatal of the four. One cannot see these parastaals apart from each other, precisely because of these overlapping tasks. At the beginning of 2015, we mandated several working groups and had the various studies carried out. In the middle of 2015 we received the first feedback from the various working groups that were further deepened in the autumn, based on punctual discussions and studies. A number of additional research assignments were also carried out. At the beginning of this year we have again received feedback from the various working groups. On this basis, in March and April, we brought together the various proposals that were held back and put them into a global reform plan. On 20 May 2016, this plan was submitted to the Core and a decision in principle was taken in relation to the proposals. I can support you on this for a very long time, but I think it would be better to give the floor to the man who has been responsible for this in my cabinet. I am therefore happy to give the floor to General Claeys, who will give you further explanations, after which I will, of course, be available for any questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u2	Here's what I'd like to propose. I will quickly explain the mandates of the institutions as they now exist. Then I will explain the decision of the Core. What is decided for the future and how are we going to implement it? I'll start with institution by institution. First, the IV-NIOO. What are the tasks of the IV-NIOO? Firstly, the reimbursement of medical costs for a series of beneficiaries that I will give later. Secondly, social action for all right holders. As far as reimbursement of medical costs is concerned, there is a kind of rightholder, in particular veterans, who is not entitled to reimbursement of medical costs but only to social action. In addition, it is about preserving and passing on the memory. Eventually there is still the management of the war graves, both in Belgium and abroad. Just a little comment about the institute. All parastaals just cited by the Minister are under the custody of the Minister of Defence, but the IV-NIIOO is also under the custody of the Minister of Social Affairs. So there's a double custody. The Institute's budgetary resources are entered in the Social Security budget, not in the Defence budget. Who are the right holders now? For the reimbursement of medical costs, these are the disabled, all of them, the former warriors and the victims of war. For them only the brake fee is refunded, for the first category, the war invalids, it is full reimbursement of all medical costs. For the social action, the beneficiaries are the same as for the reimbursement of the medical costs, but the veterans are added. Who are the veterans? These are military personnel who have served for a certain period of time for certain operations. As far as the reminder is concerned, I would say that every Belgian is entitled to the Institute in the sense that anyone can submit a project or ask questions in the context of the transmission of the reminder and can call on the Institute. In addition, the institute has specific projects such as the 1000-year train, the visit to Auschwitz with students. These are all projects that are part of the memory. 105 full-time equivalents, including 5 military workers, work at the Institute. The Institute's budget is 23 million euros annually, of which 21.6 million euros are from the Social Affairs budget. Secondly, the CDSCA, i.e. the Central Service for Social and Cultural Action of the Ministry of Defence. What's their assignment? The task of the service is to organise cultural activities, to organise trips and holidays, to build and rent accommodations and other social achievements, such as the operation of daycare centres, benefits for right holders and welfare in Belgium. This means that the service organises business for the needs of units, both in Belgium and abroad. The service also provides hospitalisation insurance for the members of the Defence Department. Moreover, the service can provide moral support, psychosocial support, medical-social or financial support to those who are struggling within the structure of Defense. Finally, the service is engaged in the supply of goods to military personnel, both on theatres and abroad, in particular to the military who are in permanent service in Germany. Who are the right holders? These are the employees of Defence, the members of those other parastaals, the widows of those right holders and, finally, the members of foreign armed forces residing in Belgium. In terms of staff, there are 274 FTEs with a budget of EUR 35 million, of which EUR 5 million comes from Defence. The Royal Army Museum is a Category 2 scientific institution and is a separate managed state service. Its tasks are: to search for, acquire and preserve collection pieces related to military history; to organize exhibitions and organize the library and historical documentation centre; to carry out scientific work on the subject; and to carry out publications. The current sites of the Museum of the Army are: the site at the Parc du Cinquantenaire, the Boyau de la Mort in Dixmude, the command bunker at Mount Kemmel, the Artillery Interpretation Centre in Brasschaat and the Second World War Interpretation Centre in Bastogne. It has a total of 187 personnel, 109 of whom are military personnel. The budget is 12.7 million euros coming in full from the Defence budget, which is financed by Defence. The National Geographical Institute (IGN) is the last of the parastatals involved in this reform. Its tasks are: to implement and maintain the geodetic network; to take care of everything that is remote sensing of a geographical nature; to digitize all geographical and cartographic data; and to develop maps based on all such data. The National Geographical Institute works for various services: the FPS Finances and more particularly the Cadastre, the FPS Mobility, the FPS Economy, the various relief services, the Regions and the Communities and also the private sector. It has 186 staff members. The budget is EUR 18.1 million, including an annual subsidy of EUR 14.5 million from the Defence budget. All the budgets put alongside each other represent a total cost of just over EUR 58 million for the operation of these different institutions. For the Institut des Vétérans, the budget comes from Social Security. As far as the management of the military heritage is concerned, there are more or less 15 million euros, including 12.7 million for the Army Museum, 300 000 euros from the Defence for the National Memorial of the Fort Breendonk, 200 000 euros for the Historical Defence Pole, which is an advisory body to the Minister of Defence, and about 1.8 million euros of subsidies to various small museums that exist within the Defence. I'm not going to say that each unit has its own museum, but each airbase, for example, has a mini-museum. For the National Geographical Institute, we have 14.5 million euros and for the OCASC (Central Office for Social and Cultural Action of Defence), 7.4 million euros. This gives you a total annual cost of €58.5 million. What is the reform approved by Kern? With regard to the Institute of Veterans, the part of social work for veterans and war victims, as well as reimbursement of medical care, will be transferred to the Auxiliary Health and Disability Insurance Fund (CAAMI-HZIV), which is a parastatal of social security. The goal is to improve service to clients, thus to those entitled. The Fund fulfils the same mission to them as the Institute, even if these two services are different. CAAMI's social service is decentralized. Its branches are located in thirty localities in the country – which the Institute cannot afford. The survivors of the Second World War were victims. In other words, these people are very old. As a result, they find it difficult to move to the headquarters of the Institute, which is based in Brussels. Hence the value of trying to work in a decentralized way to achieve efficiency gains. To date, two institutions have performed similar tasks. Veterans who benefit from social action are members of the active cadre or who are pensioners while participating for some time in operations. The social action which is intended for them is currently carried out by the Institut des Vétérans, but also, in the same way, by the Office central d'action sociale et culturelle de la Défense. Rates may vary. The service is cheaper sometimes at the Institut des Vétérans, sometimes at the OCASC. So we're going to bring it all together in this last agency, so that people can only go to one institution. Similarly, we will choose the most advantageous rates for staff or entitlement holders. Next, we will bring the "transmission of memory" component of the Institute of Veterans to a new organization, a new parastatal type B. I'll come in more detail. The aim is to strengthen the transmission of memory by combining what already exists and works well for the moment - that is, the transmission of memory as it is done to the Institute of Veterans - with all that is the management of military heritage, that is, everything that happens at the Army Museum, in Breendonk and in other institutions. This means that a new type B parastatal is created for the preservation of memory but also for the transmission of memory and the management of historical heritage. In a synthetic way, this parastatal will bring together the part of the Institut des Vétérans which is currently dealing with the management of memory and the maintenance of graves. Below this new parastatal, there will be the Army Museum as we know it now. The peculiarity is that for the site of the Cinquantenaire, where we know that the buildings are in a relatively neglected state, we will carry out a public-private partnership project for the renovation of the museum, i.e. the renovation of the infrastructure and also the museum renovation, therefore everything that is exposed. It is therefore a fundamental renovation of the museum. The national memorial of the Breendonk Fort will also be part of this new parastatal; and the historical pole, thus the famous advisory organ, also falls under this new parastatal. The aim is to be able to present the museum's collections and wealth in better circumstances and to a greater extent, because the majority of the museum's wealth is not presented for lack of resources or space; to strengthen the element of transmission of memory and to have a coherent policy in this transmission of memory and heritage management, because for the moment some of these organizations are somewhat competing with each other rather than operating in a spirit of cooperation. The parastatal will therefore be a parastatal of the Defense, headed by the latter. In concrete terms, this means that all collections currently present at the Museum will remain the property of the federal state. So nothing changes at this level. The cross-sectional structure is only a model. It's an example of a structure. The successful outcome will not be similar to 100%. This cross-sectional organization will inevitably consist of a board of directors, like all other parastatals. There will be a "collection management" component for both the Army Museum, the Breendonk Fort and all other institutions that fall under these structures. There will be a site management component with a system similar to that currently in place at the Army Museum. In other words, there will be sites in the own management of the parastatal. Thus, for example, there is the site of the Boyau de la Mort which is under the proper management of the Museum of the Army. This site could now be under the own management of this new parastatal. There will be concession sites. This is about sites and collections that will continue to belong to this parastatal but their management and presentation to the public will be given in concession to a public or private partner. There will also be sites that will be associated and with which the transversal organization will have privileged links. These are sites that are not Defence-owned, but complementary. The purpose is to present, within the current site of the Cinquantenaire Park, the entire military history and to refer to other museums or sites for certain more specific elements, whether they belong to that organization or to associated sites, such as Waterloo. Next, everything related to the operation and direction of the public is grouped for all sites. Then you have support services that deal with budget management and personnel management, etc. This is an example of an organization. In concrete terms, what does that mean? This means that part of the staff of the current Institute of Veterans goes through the contact and management part of everything that is the responsibility of the public and the transmission of memory, and another part goes through everything that is the responsibility of support. The staff of the Institut des Vétérans are divided in two distinct directions: one in which CAAMI is responsible for all reimbursement of medical expenses and social work, and the other in which it is the new parastatal. The museum's staff and resources will exist under this new parastatal, i.e. both its own sites and its concession sites will remain under the new parastatal. The museum's officers will be responsible for the management of the collection and for contacts with the public. Some people who currently support the museum, such as the human resources staff at the museum, will be included in the human resources staff in the new parastatal, to take an example. The National Memorial of Breendonk Fort will be one of the sites of this parastatal. Part of all that is public contacts will be centralized in the new parastatal also for the part of the Breendonk National Fort. Finally, the historical pole, which gave advice to the minister, is also integrated into this new parastatal. All of this concerned the transmission part of the memory, reimbursement of medical expenses and social work for the benefit of the victims of the war. At the OCASC level, what is going to happen again? OCASC absorbs the social action portion for the benefit of veterans. At the OCASC level, the elements that are not purely social and certain sectors of activity will eventually stop. This is the department or the welfare mission. Thus, if you organize an open day, for example, the inflatable castles are made available to the units. In the long run, this operation stops because it will emerge from the OCASC. The financial resources will be made available to the heads of bodies who organize an open day to rent inflatable castles on site. The delivery of goods and services to permanent service personnel in Germany, which is a residual, stops and the delivery of goods and services to operational personnel will be resumed by the Defence. It is already the latter that is doing it partially now for some missions, and it is the OCASC that is doing it for others. All this will be done within the Defence. Finally, the OCASC has a travel office, a travel agency like many in the country. This travel agency within the OCASC institution will also stop. Contracts will be taken with other travel agencies to obtain discounts for certain types of travel. The other activities of the OCASC remain: housing, crèches, benefits, all these sectors I mentioned earlier. With regard to the National Geographical Institute, we want to strengthen its cross-cutting role, modernize its role because where we used to work on digital data and maps, now everyone is working with its gsm and Google Earth. We must therefore strengthen everything that is computer science at the level of the National Geographical Institute, which must become a geobroker center of everything that is geographical information. This means that synergies with other departments will be examined in greater depth. One thing is certain: the National Geographical Institute is currently in Defence buildings at the Abbey of La Cambre. In the long run, he'll move. Le timing, le way ahead. In June, the boards of directors of these institutions will be informed and the presidents of these institutions will inform the staff. In July-August, the Kern dossier will be transformed into a Council of Ministers file. We are already preparing for the implementation of all these reforms. This means that we are looking specifically at the staff member who is going where and what budgetary resources are going where. We also need to adapt the legislation. The intention is to start implementation in January 2017. We take January 2017 as the timing, because the Institute for Veterans, now located in Regentlaan 46-48, rents a building whose rental contract expires in December 2016. The intention is not to let the people move to move again a year later. That's not pleasant for people, and it would be a lot of wasted money. That's the expected timing. So much for my explanation, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u3	Thank you, Major General Claeys, for the comprehensive explanation. It is wise to have the questioners ask their questions first, but then, of course, the other groups can also ask for the floor. Mr Calomne, you have submitted two questions about the Royal Army Museum, but they are two same questions, so you only have to read them once.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u4	Minister, as I tabled my question some time ago, it is possible that the situation has changed. So I'll try to update it. According to the press, problems would arise in the management of the collections of the Royal Army Museum. In this regard, it has been reported that no accurate and updated inventory of collections would be available, whereas the Court of Auditors would have requested it and this heritage is estimated at around €2.5 billion. Other issues were also raised by the Museum's volunteers. For example, tanks are said to have been "found in nature"; pieces of collection are said to have been transferred to "dudious" NSOs; warehouses which do not possess the necessary qualities to keep the pieces of collection in good conditions are said to have been used. In this regard, and in order to illustrate my remarks, allow me to quote in extenso from the testimonies gathered from volunteers: "In Brasschaat, no less than 6,000 uniforms are rotting in a depot where the management has cut off the heating... In the past, Belgian tanks in operational condition have been found in an English individual. They were then transferred to a so-called museum. But this museum does not exist. So it was with a private individual that the British military police put their hands on it. In the same way, combat vehicles were placed in sometimes dubious LSUs. One of them had received a copy of Leopard, also in operational condition, and regularly carried out demonstration shots. More recently, an armoured tank entrusted to an ASBL was also abandoned on the road from Charleroi to Nivelles". For their part, military unions are also concerned about this situation. Thus, a PROdef official would have sent you a letter in which he wrote - and I quote again -: "It was known that the management policy of the interim management of the Royal Army Museum was anti-military, but it could not be imagined that it would resemble that of the Islamic State in two years' time in its desire to systematically destroy pagan culture." Without, of course, making these remarks to my mind, however, we are concerned about these different alarm calls – the tone of which varies significantly –. Finally, without knowing whether the facts are really connected, the journalists also reported the theft of a Jeep Bombardier vehicle that served our sovereigns several times during the July 21 parade. This information has since been denied by the management of the Museum. In any event, unfortunately, this has led to some confusion. In our view, this is quite regrettable for the general image of the Museum. Minister, in the light of the facts reported, can you confirm the veracity of this information relayed by the various national media? If so, could you provide us with a complete statement of the problems your services have registered? Since when have you been aware of the problematic situation of collections. In addition to the creation of the parastatal, what steps will you take to address the difficulties of managing the national heritage? Thank you very much for the clarification that you can give us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u5	Madam President, I understand why we are holding exchanges of views! That's remarkable! We are in an exchange of views, so I must not stick to my question. Two deputies, plus the president, who organised the agenda, for a reform of all parastatals in the army! Minister, you are really interested in your majority! I find this way of working shameful! I do not blame the members of this committee who were probably unable to mobilize if they had no question. I find this way of working shameful. We will inform all parastatals of the total disinterest of this majority for parastatals such as the Institut des Vétérans, the National Geographical Institute or all those you have reported. I find this frankly deplorable and this exchange of views is really not one, since there is no one in committee, except those who asked questions and the Chair who added herself opportunely. That's for my introduction. Minister, I am not going to go back to the very hard words that have been said by a member of the majority. Even if they were taken over by others, if Mr. Calomne wrote them in his question, it is because he shares my concern about how the management of the Royal Army Museum has been done since you were in charge of defence. We're going to Kern, we're going to Parliament, thank you, and we're going to implement it as early as June. I sent a few text messages to see if the staff had been consulted in relation to the reform: nothing! Has all staff from all institutions been consulted? Have the unions been consulted? It is true that it is difficult for this majority to use the term "concertation". Have the unions made any comments? Madam Chair, I come back to your proposal to postpone these hearings on the Army Museum to September or October. I think it is time to exchange views on the minister's parastatals project and to invite all parastatals and representatives of their workers to come here to position themselves in this committee on this reform if you really want Parliament to participate, as I thought at the beginning of the committee. Have staff and unions been consulted? If so, what were their answers? What are their fears? Will there be, yes or no, a loss of staff as a result of your reform? It's a first thing. A second thing, Minister, concerns scientific personnel. You have the chance to have a scientific staff, especially in the museum, which has now been abandoned for many months, since you were there, in relation to their scientific work. They have nothing more to do and complained about it in the media already in January. You think the museum is expensive. These are your words, before your collaborator takes the floor. If I understand you correctly, you're going to make a public-private partnership. What will be the timing? How will you launch it? Will it focus solely on the renovation of the infrastructure? What budget do you intend to put in infrastructure reform because in a public-private partnership there is also public money? As far as museum science is concerned, you want a historical line in relation to the museum. That's a pretty good idea. I'm not demolishing everything, minister. I never demolish everything! I think it's a good idea, but how will you associate your scientific staff with this? Again, will there be a reduction in this scientific staff? As my colleague said, there is the whole problem of inventories. Has an inventory finally been made or launched with the collections? I would remind you that this request has long been made by the Court of Auditors. I've never seen a museum that didn't have an inventory. Of course, every museum must have an inventory. It's the very basis of a museum. However, when there is no inventory, it is easier to make the pieces disappear, to bring them to other regional sites, no matter where in Belgium, or to let them hang on the carriageway of Charleroi, as is the case with a Leopard tank, if I understand correctly. It's a new Belgian story. It is good for Belgium's image to ensure that collections that are remarkable collections, highlighted as among the richest at European level, do not have an inventory! Minister, I'm asking you another question. I understand the reform and the public-private partnership, the place, the space, etc. Will you keep on site the most beautiful and important collections, such as tanks or aircraft? There should not be a dismantling of these collections even before the public-private partnership, the reform, begins, on the pretext that the rooms are in such a state that these rich collections can no longer be exposed. I also recall that the site of the Cinquantenaire was one of the most visited sites by tourists but also Brussels and Belgians. Another issue concerns the National Geographical Institute. It also has a fundamental function. You're saying he's going to move. Simple and dumb question: where will he move and when? This seems to us to be very important. There was nothing in your slides about that. One thing is fundamentally important to us: it is indeed the transmission of memory. It's fundamental. Even more today than yesterday. Basically, what matters to us is that this memory is a memory of the Belgian state, of the history of Belgium, even if these words hurt your ears sometimes. For us, the history of Belgium is a federal history, the history of a Belgian state, a history that must not be dismantled across the Regions and so I would like to have all the assurances here that the whole of this parastatal will forever remain federal, that all the collections will remain federal and federal heritage. When the inventory is made, it must be public and given to this Parliament so that we can actually verify that these pieces remain well at the federal level and that this museum resurrects on a magnificent site that is the 50th anniversary, which always has a heavy burden of memory. As I recall, this is not just any site, this 50th anniversary, now abandoned by the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u6	Minister, I would like to thank you once again for making it possible to give a comprehensive state of affairs here on the parastaals. Colleagues who do come to the Committee on Defence have always shown a great deal of concern and concern for these parastaals. It is for this reason that a comprehensive explanation is given here. Minister, you have created a new structure. I have a few brief questions about that. My first question concerns the savings made by this new structure. Can you confirm that it is a saving of EUR 20 million? My second question concerns staff. I have seen the full-time equivalents in the old structure, but not the new situation. Anything on that yet? Thirdly, has a decision been made on the housing of this new transversal organisation? Finally, it is quite clear that the structure changes completely and becomes a very modern structure, avoiding duplication. However, I also saw that a PPP construction, a Public-Private Collaboration, is being transferred. Can you tell me anything more about what it will look like exactly?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u7	Mr. Calomne, since 1919 there has been a register of the collection pieces of the Royal Museum of Army and Military History (MRA). In parallel with this paper inventory, the management of the Museum has introduced a computer inventory since 1989. This database is currently being completed at 80 % and is being used to estimate the value of collections, so that they can enter into the accounts as requested by the Court of Auditors. In 1989, Mrs. Lalieux, I was not the Minister of Defence! The MRA never sells or sells collectibles. On the other hand, it shall deposit collector's coins with museums, municipalities, units or associations, subject to strict conditions laid down in deposit certificates. Since 2015, the MRA has been systematically monitoring these deposits. At that time, Mrs. Lalieux, I was in charge of the Defense! In the event of disputes in this area, the MRA shall endeavour to recover these coins as soon as possible. Where appropriate, it shall resort to judicial proceedings in order to do so. Finally, know that the management of the MRA did not have the heating cut in the Brasschaat depot, where uniforms are kept. Ms. Lalieux, our goal is to profoundly renew the Brussels site of the 50th anniversary to make it an international reference museum. In this context, it is essential to have centralized management and a detailed plan of the collections. The heritage is and therefore remains indivisible and owned by the federal state. With regard to your intervention at the political level, it is your choice, but next time I will not come here but in the public and you will read me in the newspaper! It's what you want. It'll never be enough. As a minister, I play the game properly. With regard to communication with staff, it is clear that each working group has its own method and its own relationship with staff. It is also clear, and I have seen it well, that the unions have been involved because there have been a lot of questions in committee about the meetings of the boards where they are represented. For science staff with respect to a public-private partnership (PPP), as is well demonstrated in the slide, there will be a clear scientific work to be done and we will not ask the private sector to do so. On the other hand, renovation and operation will be requested from a private partner. With regard to personnel reductions, I can tell you that the idea is that, at the end of this process, the military will be phased out. There will be no military because you know that in the future, we will be talking about an operationally oriented Defence of 25,000. As far as the inventories are concerned, I think I've answered you. As far as IGN is concerned, you are right: it is a fundamental function. It is, in fact, a parastatal that is not well known, although it carries out a very important work for each level of government direction and management. Where and when will he move? I think General Claeys has explained to you that we are still trying to identify as many synergies as possible. The idea is that it will change function a bit: as a card producer, it will become geobroker. In order to achieve this, synergies should be established with informatics, etc. We're looking for the best solution. Currently, the date of the move is not yet set. What is certain is that the Cambre site, though magnificent, requires investments that will prove to be much more useful in computer science than in old buildings. For the transmission of memory, I share in part what you said. For me, too, it's a very important part. That is why we are trying to assign this mission to a specific group, which will be able to concentrate on this subject. That's what's important in this plan. I confirm that all collections will be federal. Mrs Grosemans, the new structure has enabled us to release EUR 20 million. However, the EUR 20 million will not go away. The intention is precisely to be able to make the much-needed reinvestment for the Royal Army Museum with that amount in the long term. That's what it's about. We have looked into how we can better use the global envelope available to us today. We have also looked at how we can ensure that we get the collection that is rightly called world-famous to the public in an appropriate way. That's why it's a PPS. I can only advise the members of the committee to visit the new Dutch museum, which can really serve as an example of what is possible with the Defence collection. In the Netherlands this has only been realized. The general's been there. I therefore believe that this collection can become a real public attraction for the general public, much wider than it is today. With regard to staff and full-time equivalents, we assume in globo that in the long term we will still have soldiers as liaison but no longer as executives. That's the job that's gonna come out. As far as the Veterans Institute is concerned, it is up to them to decide who is actually working on the part of payments. They're moving to the HZIV. The others move on to the new transversal structure. With regard to the housing of the new transversal structure, we have decided with the people of the Army Museum that we will have to find a place for the scientific staff with a view to a major renovation of the site Cinquantenaire. To this end, we asked the Defence Staff to make it clear in the very short term to what extent we could do so in a free-standing part and in buildings adjacent to the Royal Military School of KMS. With this we strengthen the footprint of Defence around the site Cinquantenaire and bring together the entire historical event. As far as the PPP is concerned, I have already said that there are opportunities with partners today. At the moment, we have to find out to what extent such a legal framework is appropriate. We are also discussing this with Minister Jambon, because the Cinquantenaire is owned by the Government of the Buildings. So we must also see that we can incorporate this into the larger plan for the Cinquantenaire. That will, of course, also determine the timing of the whole story. In any case, this year, together with the others, we will have a study carried out on how the Cinquantenaire can evolve as a whole. I think I've answered the questions with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u8	Minister, thank you for your answers. I take note of the fact that, since 1989, a computer inventory has existed and that it would have been completed at 80%. It is regrettable that it is not yet in its entirety because it also makes it possible to estimate the value of this national heritage. I have taken note of the elements in relation to the systematic controls that have been in place since 2015. You said that steps had been taken, including appeals to recover these pieces of collection. It is important to have reported it. What we have read in the press, and which I have relayed in part here, undermines the image and reputation of the Royal Army Museum, both vis-à-vis Belgian citizens and foreign visitors. It is our national heritage and I am pleased that you have confirmed that all the collections will remain the heritage of the federal state. I wanted to raise it because it seems important to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u9	Mr Minister, I am not often in this committee, and I will not come to it often. I would like to remind you that the Rules of Procedure are the Rules of Procedure! When a president changes the order of business, without going through his commission, for a minister's presentation, Members cannot be there and the exchanges are not rich. You threaten to speak directly to the press but abide by the rules, and you will have a hearing here! Such threats seem a little light to me in relation to the way this committee is organised. I come here very rarely, but I find it deplorable what happened here today. You can still threaten, but it's a little silly for a minister, who would better inform than threaten! Minister, in relation to your answers, as far as staff are concerned, either you consulted with him and presented your overall plan, or you did not. Don't tell me there may have been working groups! I simply asked whether this reform, which went to Kern, had been presented to all staff members. That's no! It's clearer like that!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u10	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u11	I am simply asking whether it will be proposed before being implemented and whether you will take into account the comments made by the staff. I heard a no and I have my answer. You intend to make a public-private partnership. I am not opposed to it, except that the price will obviously be very high. It will be necessary to examine how the state is doing and what the private sector will demand in terms of collections, as the private sector is not going to commit itself to the fine eyes of the military. It's too bad, but that's how it is! I have not heard a response on the budget or the timetable. I imagine you will still discuss this with the minister in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments, to see if a budget estimate is made on this matter. I will come back to this last aspect later. As for your inventory, as you said, it exists, while adding that you are waiting for a detailed inventory of the collection, since it is established only up to 80%. If it started in 1989, excuse me, minister, it's dragging! An inventory that is only made at 80% and that is not yet finalized, today...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u12	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u13	...and eight years of management by Minister De Crem!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u14	Forget it! The selective memory of the majority is terrible!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u15	...and in opposition, the CD&V!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u16	I will add one more specific question. Minister, you said that you would gradually withdraw military personnel at the scientific level as well. Will it be replaced? A museum without scientific staff, I'm telling you it's not a museum. Will this military personnel be replaced, yes or no?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u17	First of all, there are no scientific military personnel.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u18	In this case, military personnel in total.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u19	I made it clear about that! In the transversal parastatal, there is a specifically scientific team, but the exploitation of the museum is another matter (sale of tickets, etc.).), which must not be carried out by scientists. However, scientific work must be done and we guarantee that it will be done, that there will be enough staff to do so. What I said was that the military operating personnel who are present today will be phased out according to their age.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u20	Thank you for that clarification. Finally, I have heard that the National Geographical Institute will move from La Cambre, but I hope that it will remain in the Brussels Region and that it will not be moved to one of the other two Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u21	I would like to make four small reflections so as not to prolong the debate. I do recognize your commitment to the role of memory. It has already been discussed repeatedly in this committee. As far as the press is concerned, I would bring a little flat. At the level of Syria, for example, I would have preferred an exchange of views in parliament before seeing it in the press. That would be much more interesting on the democratic level! I reiterate my request for a rapid hearing of all parastatals. Finally, since you know that I am a very constructive person, don't put any more dates in your plans! You had announced a comprehensive strategic plan for the end of the year: it is not yet there. You told us that at the end of February at the beginning of March, everything would be settled at the level of the rationalization of barracks: that is still not the case. Don't set dates! This will allow you to find the jeep of the Bombardier Kings that has been missing for a few months!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u22	Minister, I am confident that the reform of the parastaals will be a very positive story, especially for the staff, which is absolutely worthy of it. Mrs Lalieux, you are constantly making it sound like I have committed a wrong act as President and I absolutely should not put this exchange of views on the agenda. That's not right. You are also chairman of a committee, read the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber again, namely Rule 24, which states that I am perfectly entitled to set the agenda. You may have been surprised that it happened in the last instance, but there has been absolutely no wrongdoing. By the way, I always check with the secretary. It is precisely out of respect for Parliament that this is happening here, that there is an exchange of views here first and then the press is brought in. All I've done is allow more information than usual. That is all I want to say.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u23	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u24	Mrs Lalieux, this is the Committee on Defence, but that does not mean that we are all very aggressive here, that is not how it works here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u25	Fortunately, we all want world peace.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u26	Madam President, Minister, I would like to ask you, as you know, about the different electoral meetings that the Democratic Republic of the Congo is about to meet in the coming months. These various elections will, of course, generate heavy material and logistical needs that the DRC alone cannot meet at present. As you know, the UN Security Council has adopted a resolution to this end, in which it extends, until 31 March 2017, the mandate of the UN Stabilization Mission in the DRC with a particular focus, stressing the holding of the elections scheduled for the end of the year. MONUSCO is therefore called upon to play an important role and to provide technical assistance and logistical support, such as the revision of electoral lists, but also for the holding of elections. This support will have to be assessed on an ongoing basis in the light of the progress made by the Congolese authorities in the conduct of electoral operations. It is therefore likely that MONUSCO will need logistical reinforcements in order to carry out its mission and that all possible contributions from Member States will be welcome in this clear framework and of course for Belgium, respecting the conclusions of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry concerning the events in Rwanda. Therefore, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. As was the case in the past, does Belgian Defence intend to provide logistical support within the European framework and/or MONUSCO for the elections scheduled for the end of the year? What would be the conditions and possibilities for such logistical participation? Has such a request already been made by Belgium or by MONUSCO member countries like ours? Finally, on this subject, do you have a consultation with the Minister of Foreign Affairs?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u27	Madam President, Mr Crusnière, to date, the Defence Staff has not undertaken any planning since no request for support has been made to Belgium by MONUSCO in the elections scheduled for the end of this year. If such a request were to be made by the United Nations, Defence would study the feasibility of such support, taking into account the constraints of operational parameters and the budgetary framework. We are in constant consultation with the relevant departments. Among other things, the FPS Foreign Affairs organizes an interdepartmental working group on this type of topic. This working group closely follows what the United Nations wants to achieve in the future with MONUSCO, in consultation with the Congolese authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u28	Minister, that is indeed a brief answer. I hear there was no request. But I really ask you to keep an eye on developments there because I do not want, at one point or another, the power in place to say that it does not have the means to organise the elections; whether they are financial – that's another problem – or in terms of logistics and can be said that Belgium has not played a role in this. I really insist very strongly on the continuation of the analysis in this dossier, of course always in this logic of 3D strategy with your colleagues in Foreign Affairs and Cooperation. That is why I am also putting forward, following this inquiry, a motion calling on you, as part of your strategic plan, to keep a particular focus on Central Africa and to take into account, while respecting the conclusions of the Rwanda Committee of Inquiry, any requests that may arise for logistical support from our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u29	I also heard the Minister's answer. I think it is certainly a positive answer. The case will be followed up by all who are competent to do so. In this respect, we therefore have a motion for a resolution that I would like to table.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u30	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Messrs. Stéphane Crusnière and Sébastian Pirlot read as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Stéphane Crusnière and the response of the Minister of Defence, in charge of the Public Service, asks the government 1. within the framework of the'strategic plan', to keep a focus on our historical geographical areas such as Africa and, more particularly, Central Africa as part of a so-called '3D' approach; 2. while taking into account developments in national and regional contexts and respecting the conclusions of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry concerning the events in Rwanda, to continue its direct or indirect participation in peacekeeping operations or in advisory and assistance missions, as well as its commitments to military partnership programmes (MPPs) with the Democratic Republic of the Congo; 3. consider, as was the case in the past, that Belgian Defence should provide logistical support within a European framework and/or MONUSCO for the holding of these elections scheduled for the end of the year." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Stéphane Crusnière and Mr Sébastian Pirlot as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Stéphane Crusnière and the reply of the Minister for Defence, in charge of Staff cases, calls on the Government 1. to continue to take into account our historical geographical areas such as Africa and, in particular, Central Africa as part of a so-called 3D approach; 2. taking into account the evolution of the national and regional situation and taking into account the conclusions of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on events in Rwanda, its direct or indirect participation in peace-keeping operations or in orders to provide advice and assistance, as well as its commitments under military partnership programmes (PMP) with the Democratic Republic of Congo; 3. consider, as has happened in the past, to have Belgian Defence provide logistical support in a European framework and/or through MONUSCO for the elections to be held at the end of this year." A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Peter Buysrogge and Ms. Karolien Grosemans. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Peter Buysrogge and Mrs Karolien Grosemans. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u31	Minister, our F-16s will have more than 40 years' service on the counter if they are withdrawn from circulation after 2023 as planned. We have here the oldest F-16 pistols still flying around, the type A, the single-seater, and the type B, the two-seater. In the course of their lives they were adapted to the new standard and received a midlife update in the late 1990s. Of course, we can ask ourselves whether a further extension of the service life of our aircraft is possible and feasible and whether such an extension is economically or operationally justified. In this context, I have a few questions. Mr Minister, are there any NATO countries that have a programme to extend the lifespan of such old type A and B F-16 devices, i.e. over 30 years old? If yes, which one and for how long. Secondly, will the U.S. Air Force still deploy such F-16-year-olds A and B in the future? Thirdly, do there exist studies by the manufacturer which describe the changes that would be necessary to extend the life of our F-16 dynamometers and their subsystems, i.e. radar, electronic defenses, computers and so on? If that is the case, what would such a programme mean in terms of added life, investment costs and the total cost over 40 years to maintain such capacity? Fourthly, are there any other considerations in terms of cooperation in Europe, training opportunities, chances of survival in future scenarios, etc.? Fifthly, what is the view of our own air force regarding a possible extension of the lifespan of our F-16 dynamometers? Would they recommend such a thing if it were possible and why? Finally, if such a slope were to be considered, would this mean the cessation of the current replacement project and a revision of the coalition agreement on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u32	Mrs Grosemans, with regard to your questions concerning the extension of the life of the F-16 species, the European Participating Air Forces of Norway, Denmark, Belgium and Portugal, together with the US Air Force form the F-16 Multinational Fighter Program. Within that MNFP, post-production support is jointly organised to ensure operational and technical logistical relevance and flight safety. Currently, there are no studies by the manufacturer to extend the life of this type of F-16 for both 8 000 hours of flight, nor studies to ensure the operational relevance of the subsystems beyond the middle of the next decade. By the way, the MNFP decided in 2012 to achieve further upgrades of the F-16 AM/BM, so these we have, smoothly within the United States Air Force F-16 System Program Office, SPO, which makes the manufacturer less involved in this process. Within the MNFP, a final set of upgrades was launched that should allow our Air Force to use the F-16 until the end of the next decade. Now that it becomes clear that the MNFP will not continue to exist in its current form, modification programmes will have to be carried out by individual air forces beyond 2030 than those recently launched within the MNFP. Both in the budgetary and in the field of know-how and testing facilities, this would require serious additional efforts from the air forces concerned. Moreover, a huge stock of spare parts will have to be built. Given the logistical, technical and operational limitations of the lifetime extension of the F-16 AM/BM, it will require a significant investment that is not economically and operationally viable compared to a capacity replacement. Moreover, such an extension would only delay for a few years, after which the replacement of the aircraft would still be under discussion in the foreseeable future. So for me, in implementation of what has been agreed, the coalition agreement remains fully applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u33	Thank you, Minister. I asked this question because I regularly participate in debates on the replacement of the F-16. Again and again it is claimed that we can extend the lifespan of our F-16 species, which is not the case. Not only do I get a headwind in debates, I also get a lot of e-mails, I would almost call them chain letters, in which it is always said that we can extend the life of our F-16 debt holders. Those chain letters even contain conspiracy theories. There are allegations of secret reports from the Defense Department. Defense would hide reports because it absolutely does not want the world to know that the lifespan of the PFCs can be extended. I am extremely pleased with this very clear answer that the F-16 dynamometers of block A and block B cannot be extended. An update is not possible, because it is not profitable and it would only be a delay of a few years. I hope that these ghost stories can finally stop, both in debates and in my mailbox.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u34	Madam President, Minister, as we know, in the context of assistance to the nation, Defence can take on a set of tasks when civilian means fail. That's how I learned that the Belgian army hired some of its B-Hunter drones to monitor the port of Antwerp. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. In what specific context does this deployment of drones of our army take place? Will this deployment be billed in accordance with the Government Agreement? Which agency has used this military capability?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u35	Mr Minister, the Coordination Body for Threat Analysis (OCAD) has asked for additional monitoring of certain strategic sites. You have done this, among other things, by using drones above the port area of Antwerp. Belgian drones are also used to survey above the North Sea to map out a number of things. We can only congratulate you on the initiative to deploy drones in Antwerp. That is very efficient, because drones can cover a large area and support our security services. In that connection, Minister, I have the following questions. How many drones are deployed above the port of Antwerp and above the North Sea? What is the annual number of flight hours? How many soldiers are active in the deployment of those drones? What are the costs associated with such assignments? How much is the cost so far? Has there already been any determination as to how much savings are being made compared to the use of people on the ground? Can you explain that? Is the payment made from the envelope of the Defense Department or by the police? Do you already have other locations in mind where drones can be deployed? Can you explain that? On Twitter, it seemed like an individual was able to track one of the drones. He posted a map indicating the location of the drone. We don't have to believe everything that goes around on Twitter, but is it indeed possible for unauthorized personnel to follow drones? If so, how is that possible? Do you think that's a problematic fact? Can you explain that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u36	(...) 12 and 2 support to the police, in order to monitor the port of Antwerp, is the only mission currently being carried out by these aircraft. To this end, the drones were temporarily moved from Florennes to Brasschaat in order to optimize the monitoring mission of the port of Antwerp. Defence's responsibility is limited to implementing the B-Hunter drones for the benefit of the Federal Navigation Police. The latter is in charge of the port of Antwerp. The video of the area of interest produced by the drone is transmitted in real time by day and by night to the Coordination and Information Centre of the province of Antwerp. The video is analyzed in real time during drone thefts by the police who intervene if they observe suspicious behaviour or situations. The use of drones is obviously much more effective and efficient for a vast area such as the port of Antwerp than a ground-based security dispositive. This has been demonstrated, both during foreign operational deployment as in Bosnia in 2005 and the Democratic Republic of Congo what is in a name? As part of the annual monitoring of pollution of the North Sea in 2006 in support of the maritime information intersection. Defence is currently exploring the possibility of establishing synergies with other federal public services. Operational tests of drone flights, for the benefit of the customs service of the FPS Finances in 2015, and the first assessments of the current support to the police as part of the surveillance of the port of Antwerp are very conclusive. For this assignment 200 additional flight hours were allocated, on top of the total annual flight plan of 400 hours. Of those 200, 128 hours were flown effectively. The cost of deploying the UAS detachment, 37 military personnel, for the period from 2 April to 22 May 2016 amounts to 1,06 million euros. I am sorry, but in the absence of comparable elements, it is not possible to determine how much savings are made compared to the use of people on the ground. If you had to man that terrain, you'd better count on a few hundred men to achieve the same effect. This deployment will be financed in accordance with the Protocol Agreement on Defence Support to the Integrated Police for Security Orders. Finally, with regard to the case of the man who responded via Twitter, we have not really investigated this, but it is a fact that our drone behaved as if it were just a civilian flight at the port of Antwerp. The transponder was on and so the device could be recognized by the normal systems. It is obvious that this would not have been possible if the transponder was not on. This makes sense to me. Given the density in the Antwerp airspace, it is important to deal with it safely.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u37	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is important to ensure the protection of the city of Antwerp, which in recent months has become the centre of the free world, and even of the whole universe!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answers. Your plan says that we will purchase new, more modern drones. We can only support you in this, because this innovation will enable us to gather much more information in a much more efficient way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u39	I would add that there are other ways in which we work together. For example, in Wallonia, we did tests.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u40	To Mons?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u41	No, not in Mons. We worked together according to the hours set out in the plan. Support is also provided in the counting of specific game.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u42	Madam President, Minister, I asked you earlier this year about the future of military activity in Tournai. I was concerned, and I still worry, about your strategic plan, which provides for the rationalization of military quarters in Belgium. Since your plan has been approved in broad terms recently by your government, I now look forward to concrete answers about the future of military activity in Hainaut and in Tournai in particular. I would like to stress that the barracks in Tournai are fully operational. I myself have been able to realize this by going there recently, and it would be incomprehensible not to see any more military activities. Minister, given that there is still nothing specific about your strategic plan and the rationalization of barracks, could you, however, inform me of the progress of the matter? Do you intend to consult the local authorities concerned with the presence of military quarters in Tournai?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u43	Mr Delannois, the Defence Strategic Plan was approved by the government last December; however, the implementation of the plan and the concrete measures to implement the plan still need to be determined. For this purpose, the federal majority consults with the other coalition parties with a view to reaching a consensus text. The future of Defence Quarters is an integral part of the implementing measures and will be submitted to the Government as a whole. Local stakeholders will be informed in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u44	Minister, thank you. I hope the delivery isn't too long. I also hope that you are not suffering from Koen Geens syndrome because, on Tournai, when I had problems at the courthouse, I was always more or less told the same thing, saying that it was being analysed, but all I know is that ministers came to put a first stone for a courthouse that I will never see. So for now, I may be yelling at the wolf, but what I hear in some of Tournai's corridors scares me. More and more people are talking – and it would be good if you could reassure not only the military but also the local authorities – that the barracks could be closed, which would, of course, be a disaster.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u45	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Veli Yüksel's 11312 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u46	Madam President, Minister, I would like to ask you today about the current state of NATO's relations with Russia. As you know, on May 5th in Stuttgart, the US Secretary of State for Defence, Ashton Carter, made statements about these relations at the NATO Change of Command ceremony in Europe, with General Philip Breedlove being replaced by General Curtis Scaparrotti. According to him, the Atlantic Alliance, "keeps the door open to Russia" to cooperate in the face of security challenges in the world, if Moscow abandons its martial attitude. He went on to say: "But it is up to the Kremlin to decide. We do not want a cold war, let alone a hot war. We are not trying to make Russia an enemy. But do not be mistaken: we will defend our allies, the rules-based international order and the positive future it offers us." These statements clearly point to increased tensions in relations between NATO and Moscow, a fortiori in the light of recent incidents in the Baltic Sea between Russian and American ships or aircraft. Minister, can you inform me about this? Do you have elements from NATO that tend to confirm the impression given by these statements or, conversely, the mitigating remarks in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u47	Madam President, Mr Pirlot, at the Defence Ministers' meeting on 11 and 12 February 2016, it was decided to strengthen the Alliance's presence in the eastern part of its territory. The recent statements made by US Secretary of State for Defence, Ashton Carter, were consistent with the Alliance's position on this matter. On the one hand, the Alliance is stepping up its efforts in the area of deterrence and defence. On the other hand, it maintains the channels of communication. This enhanced presence will be multinational, organized on a rotational basis and supported by an expanded exercise programme. Adequate logistics and infrastructure put in place in advance will facilitate the rapid strengthening of existing forces. NATO military authorities have yet to give their opinion on the size and composition of this enhanced presence. The decision on an enhanced presence could be formally submitted to the Defence Ministers in June with a view to being endorsed at the next NATO summit to be held on 8 and 9 July 2016 in Poland. Belgium has always defended the position that it is in our interest to maintain the channels of political dialogue with Russia. This dialogue is necessary and useful in particular in times of tension. However, deep disagreements persist between NATO and Russia. The meeting of April 20, 2016 did not change anything. The Alliance countries maintain that practical cooperation cannot be restored until Russia has returned to respect for international law. However, the channels of communication will remain open. Allies continue to believe that a partnership with Russia based on respect for international law has an interest in the long-term strategic plan. They still aspire to a relationship of constructive cooperation with that country, through reciprocal confidence-building and transparency measures. At present, these conditions are not met. The Alliance does not seek confrontation but will not compromise the principles on which it is based and on which the security of Europe and North America is based.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u48	Minister, thank you for your answers. In Tirana, we attended this weekend, with several colleagues, the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. I will not hide from you that I was a little disappointed by some of the words of our allies from the former East countries that show a fairly binary vision of relations with Russia. In my opinion, whether we like it or not, Russia remains an essential element of security in Europe and the Middle East. I'm not particularly pro-Russian. However, it is clear that we will be obliged to play with Russia in relation to security at European level and in relation to our action in Syria. It's just a political reality!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u49	Madam President, Minister, how far will this government go in the search for short-term solutions to respond to internal Belgian crises in a "good-to-do military" logic? While the army already lacks human, budgetary and material resources in the context of Operation Vigilant Guardian and the legal aspects of such a mission have not yet been clarified, on Sunday, 8 May, the government decided to requisition the army in Brussels and Walloon prisons in order to provide additional humanitarian support. In this way, this government demonstrates that its public service policy, characterized by a reduction in financial and budgetary resources, is unsustainable. This mission would initially involve, if my information is good, six platoons of 30 people, a total of 180 military personnel. It seems to me that resorting to the army is a nonsense. It's not the military's role to monitor prisons. They can't afford it. They are not adequately trained to carry out this type of mission. Finally, the current crisis reflects the government's indifference to the demands of workers and trade union organizations. Minister, how can we justify such a requisition of the army in prisons without dealing with the fundamental questions of the means allocated to public services, such as prison or police personnel? Can you tell us more about the framework of such an army requisition in human, budgetary, logistical and legal terms? What will be the military's missions in this context? Is this requisition limited in time? Finally, how can we understand that military unions have not been informed a priori of such a decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u50	Mr Pirlot, the prison strike has unacceptable consequences for prisoners. I invite you to visit a prison.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u51	I've done it before.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u52	The Government was therefore forced to take appropriate measures to ensure a sufficient humanitarian level for the prisoners. Given that the police are facing problems of human capacity, the government has authorized the requisition of the army for a police support mission. I received the unions on Monday, May 9th to inform them of this requisition. The decision was made on Saturday and I personally met with the unions on May 9.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u53	A posteriori, therefore.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u54	The unions, at that time, were satisfied with this information session. As for each operation, specific instructions are drawn up for the military deployed. Those instructions shall also re-establish the rules of engagement for the possible use of force. The military are deployed to protect the personnel who have a direct interaction with the prisoners. This will make it possible to ensure a minimum level of service for prisoners and thus to improve the humanitarian situation. The protection order fits in with the military deployment concept. At present, 160 military personnel (not 180) are engaged in this mission. They come from the forces of Operation Vigilant Guardian according to the needs of the police, which determines the priorities of engagement. This implies that this mission is tenable in time, but also that it is up to the police to set priorities. With regard to logistics for the benefit of our military, agreements have been reached with the directorates of the prisons concerned. The military is on heavy duty. The costs of this operation will be charged to the police, as the Defence has been requisitioned by the police. With the current deployment of more than 1 500 soldiers in favour of the police, the country component should delete a number of training activities. This is not a direct answer to your question. The necessary trainings for the preparation of current assignments and the main international commitments are, of course, still being carried out. Operational planning for 2017 has not yet been completed, but takes into account the security situation and the various initiatives to which the Belgian Defence can contribute. On the basis of this analysis, the necessary priorities will be defined and presented at the appropriate time, including to Parliament. Defence currently has approximately 29,000 military personnel, of which approximately 20,000 are components. 220 military personnel in the components are in training and 110 are not available for a long period of time for medical reasons. However, Defence personnel are very diverse. Approximately 4,000 military personnel are deployed in combat weapons. In order to increase the potential for police support missions, Defence has trained an additional number of military personnel at a sufficient tactical level. However, it is not possible to train each member to carry out a specific mission. There are other missions that also require human resources, such as neighbourhood guarding, training, equipment maintenance, etc. Mr Pirlot, you didn't ask a question about the security force. However, if you wish to do so, I would like to refer you to my colleague, the Minister for Security and Home Affairs, who is responsible for this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u55	Thank you for your answers, Minister. For the report, as I shortened my speech, I was wondering if my oral question on foreign operations could be included in the transcript as it stands. Even if I do not entirely agree with your opinion on requisitions, I think that if the necessary financial resources were to be made available at the level of public services, we would probably not be there. I also recall the need to adopt a clear framework for the Vigilant Guardian mission. You will therefore allow me to table a motion following this inquiry. I have no doubt that there will be a simple motion from some of my colleagues in the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u56	Minister, I had hoped that Mr Pirlot would have been satisfied with your reply. His first sentences suggested that, too. Nevertheless, at the end he announces another motion. As a result, I and other members of the majority are forced to table a simple motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u57	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Messrs. Sebastian Pirlot and Stéphane Crusnière and read as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the arrest of Sebastian Pirlot and the response of the Minister of Defence, in charge of the Public Service, asks the government 1. to stop requisitioning military personnel for tasks not related to operations abroad or assistance to the nation; 2. to provide sufficient means to enable the State to carry out its public service tasks with the competent and trained staff of each department for that purpose; 3. with regard to the military, to finally adopt a clear legal framework in order to ensure the smooth running of the Vigilant Guardian mission to ensure its conformity with the law as well as the physical and legal security of the military themselves." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Sébastian Pirlot and Mr Stéphane Crusnière as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Sébastian Pirlot and the reply of the Minister for Defence, in charge of Staff cases, calls on the Government 1. to stop requisitioning the military for missions not covered by foreign operations nor by the aid to the Nation; 2. to allocate sufficient resources to enable the State to carry out its public service tasks with the competent and trained staff of each department; 3. with regard to the military, finally adopt a clear legal framework to ensure the proper conduct of Operation Vigilant Guardian, so that it can be guaranteed that it takes place in accordance with the law and in accordance with the physical and legal security of the military themselves." A simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Peter Buysrogge and Tim Vandenput and Mrs. Karolien Grosemans. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Peter Buysrogge and Mr Tim Vandenput and Mrs Karolien Grosemans. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. Question No 11387 by Mr Eric Thibaut was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u58	Madam President, Minister, I have already asked you many times about your budget in great difficulty. In plenary, at the end of last year, the Prime Minister announced the exceptional release of 400 million euros for security. In November 2015, you said: "As far as the exceptional security budget is concerned, its distribution is not yet determined". As you know, we will support the necessary budgetary security efforts, particularly to ensure that National Defence has the means to combat terrorism in a comprehensive and measured United Nations approach. Since then, European Commissioner Pierre Moscovici has written to the Belgian government confirming that the European executive "will propose to make use of the flexibility clause included in the Stability and Growth Pact in the event of unusual events, when taking into account the additional expenditure directly related to these events". Minister, in this $400-million security package, what share does it have or will it return to National Defence? What would that money do? Will the Commission's announcement to activate the budgetary flexibility clause for security affect your budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as an important player in the national security system, Defence will be able to count on the distribution of the interdepartmental provision in the following areas:- urgent dossier of priority investments approved for EUR 12.8 million; - file relating to 92 additional recruitments over three years for the Department of General Staff Intelligence and Security, for an estimated amount of €3.5 million; - financing of surveillance missions for the benefit of the integrated police as long as the government considers it necessary for the services performed from 1 January to 31 March of this year. EUR 12 million have already been allocated at the end of April. Subsequent benefits will be covered through additional quarterly allocations; - Interdepartmental cooperation between Defence, Justice and Home Affairs in the collection of information through open sources and social media, for an overall amount of EUR 22.1 million over three years for the three services. The Commission's announcement to activate the budgetary flexibility clause for security remains without consequences for the defence budget, since it is a macroeconomic correction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u60	Minister, thank you. We had already said that we would agree to an increase in these expenses from the moment they ensure the safety of our fellow citizens. It would be good at some point to think also about a certain refinancing of the police areas that would ease the work of our military.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u61	Minister, as we celebrated the 71st anniversary of the end of the Second World War on 8 May, the Memoir-Herinnering Group, which brings together survivors of Nazi concentration and extermination camps, revealed surprising information at least: former Belgian collaborators of the Nazi regime would still receive a pension from Germany, on the basis of a decree issued by Hitler. This situation obviously poses a question! Beyond the moral aspect, it appears that this income paid to former employees is not covered by the tax authorities, contrary to the compensation paid by Germany to victims of forced labour, for example, who are subject to tax. Minister, were you aware of this situation? In addition, can you tell us how many employees, widows or dependants receive this pension from Germany? Finally, do you intend to make contact with your German counterparts in order to clarify this situation and possibly put an end to it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u62	Mr Senesael, I cannot specify the number of people receiving a military pension from Germany. I can assure you that this data is not managed by the Directorate General "War Victims" or the Institute of Veterans - National Institute of War Invalids, Veterans Affairs and War Victims (IV-INIG). This subject is beyond my competence. However, for information purposes, it is important to clarify that the benefits paid by Germany to compulsory workers are not taxable in Germany. Following an agreement between the Belgian tax administration and the German tax administrations, German pensions granted to persons who have obtained national recognition status in Belgium, i.e. deported persons forcibly incorporated into the Wehrmacht, political prisoners, prisoners of war, are exempt from German taxes. A procedure has been put in place to ensure that, on the basis of a certificate from the Directorate-General "Victims of War" or on the basis of archival documents concerning the person concerned, the exemption from taxes can be granted by Germany with retroactive effect. In Belgium, all war pensions and annuities are also exempt from taxes and cannot be taken into account in the calculation of taxes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u63	Minister, you answer me at the tax level to a question that was rather moral. According to an article and a petition currently in circulation, 2,500 people would receive a pension for supporting Hitler. For me it's a shame! And you must, together with your colleagues, Messrs. Reynders and Van Overtveldt, make diplomatic contacts with Angela Merkel's democratic Germany to bring this situation to an end. I think the federal government needs to act on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u64	Madam President, I am aware that this is not the sexiest term for an organisation, but until now. Minister, during the visit of the Committee on Defence to Estonia, in which you were present, we also received explanations about the NATO Cooperative Cyber Defence Centre of Excellence based in Talin. This center that deals with cybersecurity investigations is NATO-related and 18 countries are part of it. Belgium is not there until today. We heard that the Belgian government would have signed a letter or an intent in November 2015 and that discussions are under way on Belgium's accession to this centre. My questions are therefore quite specific. Why are we only now taking steps towards possible accession? What reasons have there been in the past not to participate in it at the beginning or in a subsequent stage? What are the advantages of possible accession? What are the conditions for participation? Do we meet that? What is the timing in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u65	Madam President, Mr Buysrogge, the cybersecurity strategy of Defence, which was finalised under my impulse at the end of 2014, contains a clear reference to a potential participation in the CCDCoE, located in Talin, Estonia. In the first phase, a more detailed follow-up of the activities of this centre was opted for. After analysis, at the end of 2015 an effective collaboration was chosen as sponsoring nation. That was just a consideration of economy. It must also be worth actively contributing to it. The Centre is a multinational organisation accredited by NATO, which specialises in research and development, training and training. Direct access to this expertise gives Belgium a better view of recent developments in order to respond to the modern threats in the cyber domain and strengthens our position at international level. The conditions for participation as sponsoring nation are limited to the placement of an officer in the centre and a standard financial contribution of 22 000 euro per year for the support and operating costs of the centre. The accession procedure was launched in November 2015 by a formal request addressed to the director of the CCDCoE. This procedure, which requires the approval of all 16 other sponsoring nations, is ongoing. A positive response is expected in the coming weeks. At the same time, the selection process was launched in early 2016 for the designation of a Belgian officer to be effectively replaced at the beginning of January 2017, after having completed a six-month internship at the ADIV.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u66	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'm glad that you, and by extension this government, are working on cybersecurity. At federal level, the Cybersecurity Centre was established in Belgium. You do this in many ways. I think this is one of them. I do not think that this is merely blissful, but it is important to pay attention to this at international level. The commitment requested from the Defense Department is relatively limited. It is therefore important that we are involved and that we continue to work on something that will only become more important in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u67	Madam President, Minister, this question is short, but no less important. With regard to a new fleet for the Navy, we read in the Defence Strategic Plan that the M-frigates are being replaced by new vessels, accompanied by an investment estimated at EUR 780 million. The vessels for the current mine hunt and logistics support ship will also be replaced by new vessels and an investment area of EUR 690 million will be provided for this purpose. Minister, what is the status of replacing both M-frigates and mine hunters? What is the state of play with regard to cooperation with the Netherlands, which also comes around the corner in this respect? In what way will Belgian industry be involved in the design and implementation of the replacements?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u68	Madam President, Mr Buysrogge, the concrete implementation of the replacement of the M-frigates and mine hunters is being prepared by the defence staff to equip the Navy with effective and forward-looking material, in accordance with the decision of the nuclear cabinet of 22 December 2015. This concerns specifically two multipurposes and six mine protection ships. With regard to cooperation between the Netherlands and Belgium, informal discussions are ongoing at the level of the Dutch and Belgian defence staff in the framework of the structural cooperation BeNeSam. On a political level, too, I can tell you that I have already spoken to my colleague Hennis-Plasschaert about this. The goodwill is there to continue with that. However, it is up to both governments to decide on the procedure and/or partnership for the replacement of the fleet. The involvement of the Belgian industry in this project is a responsibility that falls primarily to the FPS Economy. It seems clear to me, however, that, as in all other investment programmes, this is being worked hard in this area, including by our services. This is of course the subject of regular contacts with industry. We are currently preparing a draft note on the so-called golden triangle or triple helix, i.e. cooperation between industry, government and research.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u69	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is important that we continue to work on cooperation with the Netherlands in the field of the Navy in general and perhaps even wider. For us, Benelux cooperation can certainly be strengthened. I would also like to make a warm plea for our own business, where there is a great deal of capacity and knowledge in this area. Even in the Navy and perhaps even more so by the members present, although there is not much presence at the moment, it will be assumed that a great deal of knowledge is present in industry, both for the design and for the implementation of the replacement programme.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u70	Mr Minister, my question was somewhat prompted by Italy's problems and the question to NATO. I also want to open this up to Europe. On Monday 25 April 2016, Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi, during a meeting with German Chancellor Angela Merkel, French President François Hollande, British Prime Minister David Cameron and US President Barack Obama, expressed his concern about the situation in Libya. In concrete terms, the Italian Prime Minister is lobbying for a NATO naval blockade off the Libyan coast to stop migration to southern Italy, to reduce the risk of terrorism and to curb arms smuggling. During the interview, President Obama would have indicated his willingness to use NATO resources to block the practices of modern slave traders. I would also like to refer to the Sophia mission, where, among other things, the Belgian frigate Leopold I, together with 21 other European countries, participated in the European Operation EUNAVFOR MED, launched on 22 June 2015, to combat trafficking in human beings through the Mediterranean. The purpose of this mission was to stop the flow of refugees trying to reach from Libya via the Mediterranean route Italy. However, on 13 May, the House of Lords published a report on this mission, in which they concluded that, thanks to Sophia mission, 14 000 lives were saved, 114 smugglers' boats were seized and only 69 suspected smugglers were arrested by the Italian authorities, suspected of being small players. So these are strong results, but also a number of comments. I also give the figures of the refugee influx into Italy via the Mediterranean: 27 926 refugees from Africa arrived by sea this year until the end of last month. What is the view of the Minister of Defence and by extending the government on this issue? Is there a need for an evaluation or extension of mission Sophia? Do you follow the Italian government in its thinking to set up a new NATO mission? Has there already been a formal request from the Italian authorities to participate in the mission with the aim of creating a maritime blockade against smugglers around the Libyan coast, whether in a European context or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u71	Mr Buysrogge, the purpose of the operation is to disrupt trafficking in human beings, which has become a smuggling business model, and to paralyze smuggling networks. Thanks to a recent decision by the EU Council, this operation will soon be able to help prevent arms trafficking in the region, provided a new UN Security Council Resolution, and will contribute to capacity building and training of the Libyan Coast Guard and Navy to carry out law enforcement tasks at sea at the request of the Libyan Government of National Unity. At present, the fleet cannot operate in Libyan territorial waters or on land to carry out such tasks itself. This requires an international legal mandate from the UN or an invitation from the Libyan Government. It seems clear to me that, although we are talking today about a Libyan government of national unity, it is not yet in a position to provide the necessary credentials with regard to speaking for the whole country. In addition, NATO is already active in tackling the refugee and migration crisis and, at the request of Greece and Turkey, carries out a maritime surveillance activity limited to the Aegean Sea. This is done in cooperation with EU operations NAVFOR MED Sophia and Frontex. The conversion of the NATO operation Active Endeavour from an article 5 operation to a non-article 5 operation, a crisis response marine security operation, is currently under study. It is therefore too early to determine to what extent the Italian slope for a NATO naval blockade is a realistic option. To date, we have received no request from the Italian authorities or from any other government to be part of a mission aimed at creating a maritime blockade against smugglers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u72	Minister, last weekend there was a meeting of the NATO Parliament, where Alexander Vershbow, NATO deputy secretary general, called on the European Union to take responsibility for this. He said that NATO might be willing to work in support of the European Union's missions in this area. That is, therefore, a bit in line with what you have just said. I would also like to make a warm appeal to keep eyes and ears open and to use them against the crossing from Libya in all possible ways.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u73	Madam President, Minister, on 25 May the Court of Auditors of the United States published a report stating that several US departments and agencies in charge of security and defence - including the SACCS, which coordinates the use of nuclear weapons - are working with, I quote, "an IBM Series-1 computer, which uses 8-inch diskettes" - floppy disks! It is therefore proven that one of the largest nuclear arsenals in the world is controlled by completely obsolete computer equipment dating back to the 1970s. However, it is known that Belgium is storing American nuclear warheads on its territory at the Kleine-Brogel airbase. Minister, these are my questions. Are the U.S. B-61 stored in Belgium coordinated from the U.S. by SACCS, i.e. by outdated, inappropriate and therefore dangerous computer equipment? If so, has Belgian Defence requested clarification from the United States Department of Defense on the mode of computer control by the SACCS of weapons present in our territory? Is this umpteenth episode demonstrating the total strategic incongruity and the immense health and environmental danger posed by nuclear weapons such that you can finally ask the United States to remove these bombs from Belgian territory?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u74	Mr President, Mr Hellings has tried again. I won't say anything about your introduction. In accordance with the Government Agreement, our country chooses to follow a realistic and pragmatic approach to the disarmament and non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. In this context, Belgium agreed with NATO's strategic concept, which includes a policy of deterrence based on conventional and nuclear capabilities. Until the conditions for the global elimination of nuclear weapons are met, NATO remains a nuclear alliance with an effective, safe and well-protected deterrent capability. As for your question about the Strategic Automated Command and Control System (SACCS), it is a US-specific national system that is not integrated into NATO's command structure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u75	Mr Minister, the weapons on Belgian territory are tactical and not strategic. So it's probably not the same system that is used in this case. However, these systems are probably related. I note that the control of a weapon, with dramatic humanitarian consequences in the event that an accident occurs – and we know that this was already the case in the past – is carried out by particularly old equipment. For us, therefore, it is time for Belgium to set an example and to be able, autonomously and strictly bilaterally, to ask the American ally to withdraw its weapons for obvious security reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u76	Madam President, Minister, I would like to ask you about Montenegro's possible integration into NATO. As you know, on 19 May, the Foreign Ministers of NATO countries signed Montenegro's accession protocol to the Alliance. This decision is akin to a historic step towards NATO membership. The Secretary-General of the organization, Mr Stoltenberg, mentioned on this occasion that the decision taken showed "clearly that the NATO door remains open to partners who share and defend our values". As of today, Montenegro will participate in all NATO meetings as an observer. Moreover, it is already contributing to its operations by working on regional cooperation in the Balkans. According to the Secretary-General, the integration of Montenegro "will provide more stability and security for the region and will therefore be a factor of prosperity". I would therefore like to ask you a few questions about this. What is Belgium's position on the integration of this country? In your opinion, what is the overall strategic framework for this integration and what will it have to do with Russia? Can you tell us more about the process and timing of this future membership? Do you think this decision will make emulations? Therefore, which nations today would be likely to knock on the door of NATO?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u77	Mr Pirlot, as you rightly point out, it was the Foreign Ministers of the NATO Member States who signed Montenegro's accession protocol to NATO on 19 May. I would therefore ask you to turn to my colleague in the Foreign Affairs Department, who is responsible for this matter, for more information on the Belgian position and the state of play on this issue. You see me sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u78	Minister, is NATO an association of diplomacy? I thought it was a military alliance. No?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u79	First, it's a political alliance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u80	Yes, and there is no military involvement?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u81	It's a peace alliance, Mr. Pirlot.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-31-54-commissie-ic430x.u82	Not always!
