ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u2	I have received government amendments to the draft programme law (II) (No. 1). I have received government amendments on Program Bill (II) (No. 1941/1). These amendments were tabled to the Programme Act I (No. 1875/1) but repealed to be submitted to the Programme Act (II). These amendments were tabled on draft programme law I (No. 1875/1), but were withdrawn in order to be tabled on draft programme law (II). I propose that these amendments (1941/2) be sent back to the Committee on Social Affairs. I propose that you refer these amendments (1941/2) to the Committee on Social Affairs. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u3	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 29 June 2016, I propose that you enter on the agenda of tomorrow afternoon's plenary session: - the motion for a resolution by Mrs Karolien Grosemans, Mr Peter Buysrogge, Mr Dirk Van Mechelen, Mr Veli Yüksel, Mr Peter De Roover and Mr Tim Vandenput, Mrs Rita Bellens and Mr Peter Luykx, Mr Damien Thiéry and Mr Denis Ducarme on the Belgian defence against the Islamic State (IS or DAESH) in Iraq and Syria (Nos 1883/1 to 4); - the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Georges Dallemagne and Mr Benoît Lutgen and Mrs Vanessa Matz on Belgium's participation in the international coalition against IS in Iraq and in Syria (Nos 1577/1 to 4). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 29 June 2016, I propose that you include in the agenda of tomorrow afternoon's plenary session: - the motion for a resolution by Mrs Karolien Grosemans, MM. Peter Buysrogge, Dirk Van Mechelen, Veli Yüksel, Peter De Roover et Tim Vandenput, Mme Rita Bellens et MM. Peter Luykx, Damien Thiéry and Denis Ducrame on the Belgian Defence against the Islamic State (EI or DAECH) engagement in Iraq and Syria (Nos. 1883/1 to 4); - the motion for a resolution by Mr Van den Broek, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Georges Dallemagne and Benoît Lutgen and Mrs Vanessa Matz concerning Belgium's participation in the international coalition against Daesh in Iraq and Syria (Nos. 1577/1 to 4). Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u4	A limited general discussion was held in accordance with Rule 116 of the Rules of Procedure. Pursuant to rule 116, bills are subject to limited general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u5	I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these draft laws. I propose that you devote one discussion to these bills. The limited general discussion is open. The limited general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Messrs. Benoît Piedboeuf and Stéphane Crusnière. They refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the 2016 budgetary adjustment, it is not too early! Because the least we can say is that things have been dragging. And this is in particular due to the delay with which the government tabled its adjustment plan in Parliament. To a point where there is now traffic jamming. Indeed, the new report of the Monitoring Committee is already announced, which should set the scale of the effort to be made for the 2017 budget in the context you know. This is the context set by both the National Bank and the Plan Office, which consider that in order to achieve balance in 2018, the government will have to find 8 to 9 billion euros by 2018. We warned you, you didn't want to listen. Your risky management of tax revenues, your unfunded tax shift - it must be remembered that your tax shift is not financed up to 50% - and your chronic denial of the Court of Auditors' remarks put you in a very difficult situation today. We also learn in the press that you could postpone your budgetary conclave for 2017. And so the trajectory to 2018-2019. You would take it, we always read in the press, the Brexit as a pretext. Then we'll have to clarify. Are you going to postpone the budget conclave or not, Madam and Mr. Minister? We want clear answers. If not, we would see the will in your leadership not to deal immediately with the difficulties and difficult choices that you face today because of your policy. Will you have the courage to put an end to your austerity policy, to go find the means where they are instead of in the pocket of our fellow citizens whose taxes on consumption you have increased in unprecedented proportions? Will you stop cutting cuts in public services and social security? We need all these answers because Parliament cannot be held by your agenda. We therefore ask you to draw up an outline of your new budget plan today. In short, where are you going to find the eight to nine billion you're missing? This being the case, let us return to the 2016 budgetary adjustment, which is overtaken by the evolution of the tax revenues at the beginning of the year which are not taken into account in the context of the said adjustment. Indeed, as I said during our committee work, there is already a gap of more than EUR 1 billion between the achievements of the first three months of 2016 and the revenues of the same period in 2015. This is particularly worrying and does not suggest any good for the rest of the year. I have asked you several times on this subject in committee without receiving a satisfactory answer, which I regret. If things were to continue, in other words, if the situation were to deteriorate throughout the year, the impact on the structural balance would be significant and would add to an already very substantial bill for your trajectory by 2018. Since we're in the recipes, let's stay there. In this respect, the opposition has the tiresome feeling of always being confronted with the same reality: a certain approximation. The Court of Auditors itself questions the "realism" of certain new measures. Let us have a quick review of these - we will not be as long as we are in committee - for our colleagues who do not sit on the Finance Committee and are interested in the financial matters. Because the latter is central, Mr.Miller knows, he who has experience. The new tax system of the Sicafi, which we have still not voted for, and for which you expect a return of 250 million euros. These are not realistic: we are in June 2016. For 116 million, or almost half, the Court of Auditors explains that this will not be a structural measure but one shot. Why don't you take it into account? The second point concerns the increase in VAT on electricity. There has been a lot of controversy over the amount of return. You were talking about over 700 million, while the Court of Auditors announced about 500 million. The Court of Auditors comes back to a particular point concerning the abuses you were talking about in order to justify the increase in VAT from 6 % to 21 %. You estimated these VAT abuses on electricity at 188 million and the Court of Auditors announces 40 million. Why don't you take it into account? Next, let's talk about the Cayman tax, the transparency tax. There is no hearing in the Panama Papers committee where experts do not tell us, like the people we are questioning, that the transparency tax has weaknesses. Not only did we tell you that the 460 million were already a particularly optimistic estimate, the maximum limit of the upper limit, said the tax administration - Mr Ducarme can testify to this because I told this House in plenary - but here in the tax doctrine, among the people we question in the Panama papers committee, it is said that there are weaknesses in this system. But there, too, nothing does, you keep your 460 million. The tax on intercommunals is an ideological measure. The MR needed an election trophy. They got it with the tax on the intercommunals. In the end, it will be people who will pay more, but obviously, it has not prevented the vote on this measure. Fortunately, we have been able to adapt it a little by means of constructive opposition proposals, on which the majority have joined us. They must be greeted for this. I want to be fair. The problem is that this tax on intercommunals is subject to an appeal to the Constitutional Court. This is again an important measure that is subject to uncertainty and weakens your budget! As regards the diamond tax, the Court of Auditors and the Council of State had pointed to the danger that it would be considered State aid. In doing so, you have adapted the device, you have recalibrated it a bit, but what tells us that it will be enough in the eyes of Europe? What tells us that this carat tax will also be able to be a solid measure that will generate reliable performance, regardless of the moral and ethical problems that this poses? We have exposed them widely here, and I will not go back to that. In short, these EUR 50 million are also hypothetical. Another point is tax regularisation, which is still not voted on. We know the reticence of the Regions. I'd say it's working in progress. Let us not dwell on the legal aspects and, I would say, on institutional policy or institutional relations. Let us focus on the budgetary aspects. Are the EUR 250 million credible? We are in June and the measure is still not voted on. The answer is no, of course. You should, on your own initiative, review the wing of this measure, with respect to its budgetary performance at least. Another point is the exemption from VAT on games and bets. I do not discuss the subject in substance, we will discuss it again at other times. You are expecting EUR 39 million, except that here too the Court of Auditors says: "Beware, the return is overestimated! Attention, potential problem of division of powers between the federal and the regions!" Here too, new uncertainty. To finish this little catalogue, we come to the measures called 'Panama Papers'; 65 million expected returns. The Court of Auditors explains in detail how this amount also appears to be overestimated since only a few measures in this set are subject to convincing explanations. To sum up, ladies and gentlemen, when we take stock of all these uncertainties, it can be concluded that for almost EUR 1 billion there is a certain doubt about the revenue associated with these new provisions. One billion, in addition to the billion-fold slowdown in tax revenues. That's why I think you already have an additional invoice of two billion euros, or an additional hole of two billion euros, which is there, during, and which could be added to what you already have to find for 2018, that is to say 8 to 9 billion euros, an invoice that could climb up to 11 billion euros. Eleven billion euros to be found within two or three years. Do you imagine in what situation you have plunged yourself into, and in which you are plunged the whole country? We hope, of course, that you will not once again strengthen your austerity policy as it has been going on so far, namely, huge increases in excise duties and VAT. According to my calculations, you've increased taxes on consumption for more than two billion in the last two years. And we will go towards 2.8 billion euros when we reach the end of the legislature; 2.8 billion euros in increases in taxes on consumption throughout the legislature. Do you realize what you're doing? I am not even talking about the macroeconomic aspects and how this will lead to domestic demand. In any case, you will look in unprecedented proportions in people's pockets, and unequally since, as you know, these taxes are regressive, that is, they are distributed unequally; they weigh more heavily on smaller incomes. I also hope that you will not continue to make cuts in public services. I'll have a chance to come back later. The three billion you're going to look for from the SNCB, the linear reductions of means vis-à-vis the departments. Look at the state of suffering in the Department of Justice. Savings are also announced at FPS Finance. The Court of Auditors' report also explains that development aid will not be able to meet all its objectives. In short, when are you going to put an end to this particularly disastrous policy? Because, besides, when they are not cuts, they are so-called savings. And we come to the redesignation of the administration, the famous 100 million euros. There we saw a ping-pong game: you turned the ball to each other. When you were asked questions, you explained that it was Mr Vandeput who had to answer and when our colleagues were questioning him, he was referring to the Minister of Budget. You have given us, Madam Minister, some explanations in committee, which were not convincing, I must say, because you explained to us that there was a kind of project that was under way, that lines were drawn. When we went into detail, on the other hand, we stayed on our hunger. That's basically where we are today. Basically, your budgetary adjustment is only a reflection of your policy, as was already the budget itself. That is why the questions we are asking you today are relatively simple. These are questions that also point to your responsibility. What are the findings? You're not trying to better manage the state. You cut off his wings without discernment and brutality. You're not trying to promote tax justice. You confirm certain privileges - I am thinking of the diamond sector. You multiply the measures with uncertain returns and you continue to pee in the household pocket. The fact is that you are also unaware of what many studies say: that wealth is increasingly concentrated in the hands of a minority, in particular financial assets, and that it is certainly up to them, through a more appropriate tax system, that a complementary effort must be made rather than raising taxes on consumption. We will therefore vote against your budgetary adjustment because it reflects an unjust and harmful policy: harmful to people, harmful to public services, harmful to our public finances and also harmful to the economic prosperity of our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u7	Mr President, Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this budgetary control is taking place in a particularly uncertain context. Growth remains low, even in the following years. We have seen the forecasts of the Planning Bureau, which speaks of 1.4 % growth this year and 1.5 % in the following years. In fact, we need at least 2% growth, both in terms of sustainable economic development and in terms of the budgetary situation. The attacks in Paris and Brussels have a negative impact. And now the Brexit. Despite a number of favourable conditions, such as low oil prices and negative interest rates, these events do not boost our growth. The employment prospects are positive. The Planning Bureau and the National Bank expect 40 000 jobs per year in the following years, namely 230 000 jobs between 2016 and 2021. They say that the measures taken in terms of competitiveness and the fundamental health of our economy in terms of investment in technology make our economy very effective. Competitiveness has been restored and this explains the strong job creation. The increase in employment is also an important additional asset for the following years. Mr Laaouej always talks about antisocial policy. However, the latest statistics from the Planning Bureau and the National Bank of Belgium on the purchasing power evolution teach us that the real disposable income of households, individuals, will generally increase by 1.4 % in 2016 and by 1.6 % in the following years. Within two years, real disposable income would increase by 2.2 %. All the stories, as if the purchasing power of the average Belgian would be violated, are completely contradicted by the statistics of the Planning Bureau and the National Bank of Belgium. If one looks at party politics, in 2013 according to the statistics of the National Bank of Belgium, the real disposable income of private individuals in Belgium decreased by 0.6%. Mr Laaouej, in 2013 real disposable income fell by 0.6 %, this year it rose by 1.4 % and went to 2.2 %. Your theory that this government is doing deflation, that this government is affecting people's purchasing power, is contradicted by the National Bank of Belgium. Of course, this has to do with the reduction of costs, with the fact that disposable income has increased as a result of the tax reduction. Taking into account all possible increases in costs, we see that this year's net wage of two-earners will increase between EUR 65 and EUR 84. That is where the opposition's criticism is wrong. Purchasing power is increasing. We are also taking measures to raise the retirement age, including in the context of ageing costs. Mr Laaouej, I read an interview with Laurette Onkelinx this week. I don't know if you read it. It was in a Flemish newspaper somewhere. It wants to reduce working hours; it wants to go back to the 35-hour week with the same wage, while we are pursuing a policy of working longer and more flexible, in order to increase the competitiveness of our companies and reduce the cost of labour. What it wants, therefore, goes completely against economic policy. The Socialist still thinks that the revival will be achieved by increasing consumption and by reducing working hours, that this government is deflating and so on, while it is the opposite. The future is flexible labour and an increase in purchasing power, but taking into account competitiveness. All possible variants apply to this. Whether you like it or not, the employment rate will increase in the following years, from 67 % in 2015 to 69 % in 2020. So there is no social horror and the job creation is important. But the worry child remains the budget. I've been saying that for several months. I believe it would be unfair... intellectual honesty also commands to say that the budget stands for a heavy task. Efforts are being made in the field of social security. In the documents accompanying the report drawn up following the discussions, Mrs Wilmès said that 454 million had been saved in social security. So saying that there is no saving in social security is wrong. Almost EUR 500 million has been saved there. So it is not true to say that there are insufficient efforts there. The RVA saved 481 million in 2015. I believe that these figures are important.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u8	Mr Van Rompuy, you say that those who claim that social security is not being saved are mistaken. Who's claiming that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u9	I constantly hear it said that this government is not actually doing anything about expenditure, that there is not enough effort on the expenditure side. You'll have to read who says that. I just want to say that efforts are being made there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u10	Our criticism is different. I suspect you are referring to the N-VA colleagues, but our criticism is different. In particular, our criticism is that it is really rude and unjust that we should be defending a new budgetary adjustment here, with far more social security efforts than, for example, the Panama Tourists. We also had this discussion in the Finance Committee. I will come back to that later. According to the Panamabilan of this majority, this budgetary adjustment is only guaranteed for EUR 7.8 million. You yourself quote the figures in the field of social security. You may not understand the criticism made by your partners in the majority, but by many people, it is not fair to do so much in social security, but so little in the field of tax fraud and tax evasion in the post-Panama world. We are counting a little bit on CD&V as a social face in this government to reverse that. Again and again we are faced with the same proportions, the same proportions, more in social security than in the strongest shoulders. I honestly don't understand. Finally, Mr Van Rompuy, I would urge you to respond more to our criticism than to what the N-VA suggests about this budgetary adjustment in the Studios of Topical and Seventh Days.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u11	Mr Van Rompuy, I have the impression that the celebrations of Rerum Novarum are already behind us. Where is the great Christian democracy that thinks of the cause of the workers, of the evolution of their well-being? I cannot imagine that a person such as you can, deep down, rejoice in the government's policy. I'm thinking index jump, flexi-jobs. I am thinking of infringements of social consultation. I'm sure you don't adhere to it. Nevertheless, I will respond to two or three points that you have mentioned. You are talking to us about the report of the National Bank and even the Federal Office of the Plan, about the positive prospects for employment. You also talk about the evolution of disposable income. I would like to make two points. First of all, if a real analysis is to be carried out, the employment prospects, as reflected in the last report of the Planning Office or the National Bank, must be observed together with those that existed prior to the implementation of the new Michel government policy in order to know the number of additional jobs created beyond the policy unchanged. In other words, it is necessary to compare the number of jobs created, planned with unchanged policy, and the positive net effect attributed, whether justified or not, to the policy of the Michel government. What are we looking at? Referring to the period 2015-2017, the number of jobs created is 16,000. In other words, compared to an unchanged policy, you have a net creation of 16,000 jobs. Is that significant? Yes! Every job created is valuable, but you must be able to relate it to the measures you have taken. Among these so-called competitiveness measures, two measures were very important: index jumps, i.e. a reduction of 2.5 billion on the wage bill, and reductions in social contributions, i.e. another 2.5 billion over the period. This means a total of EUR 5 billion in competitiveness measures. When you report this to the number of jobs created, you get a figure of about 200 000 euros employment. I would like to hear you welcome, but what I would like to hear in this chamber is finer and fairer analyses that compare existing employment prospects with the unchanged political outlook. To do this, it is necessary to go back to the 2014 ones. Secondly, with regard to jobs, do not lose sight of the fact that the estimate of the number of jobs generated by flexi-jobs amounts to 15,000! Fifteen thousand jobs out of the sixteen thousand I have mentioned, it already covers a large part. I am not saying that this is entirely flexi-jobs, but it coincides. I would not be happy to create so few precarious jobs with so many public resources spent, with so many punctures on wages. With regard to the evolution of disposable income, we have a methodological divergence. In keeping with the National Bank's report, there is an increase in disposable income that is higher than it was under the previous government. I simply draw your attention to the fact that we need to be able to integrate growth rates. As a result of economic growth, there is an increase in disposable income. In addition, we need to look at the distribution of the increase in disposable revenues. Wage increases should not be confused with increases in disposable income. Respendable revenue is a much larger thing. But where you should be careful is that with the huge increase in taxes on consumption – I've talked about more than two billion and we're about 2.8 billion over the entire legislature – you're going to mechanically strengthen the unequal distribution of income because taxes on consumption weigh more heavily on small and medium-sized incomes. You should be careful because the National Bank does not yet integrate all the effects of unequal income distribution due to the increase in taxes on consumption, which is a very difficult ex post effect to measure. That is why the minister was asked to provide us with the effects on the redistribution of tax shift revenues. Unfortunately, we did not get them. If I were you, I wouldn't rejoice too quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u12	We have had this discussion a number of times, but real economic growth in 2013 was 1.2 %, as in 2015. Then, in 2013, available income decreased by 0.6 %. In 2015, according to statistics, it increased by 1.2 %. This year it will rise by 1.4 %. However you turn it around, Mr Laaouej, you must acknowledge that purchasing power is increasing. You should be pleased. Despite a number of tax increases, the reductions in charges, which are also there and which I shall come back to later on have not always been financed, have encouraged purchasing power. I don't agree with what the broad workers' movement is saying. Also the ACV, or movement.net, says it's social horror. I don't agree with that. That's what I'm saying publicly. I have said a number of times that I absolutely do not agree with the statement that the government is currently pursuing an antisocial policy. On the contrary, everyone can consult the statistics: the living wage increases by 6% in one year and the minimum pensions by 4%. The net wage of two-earners increases by 65 to 84 euros. As Christian Democrats, we have a social, but also an economic policy. In this respect, we fully subscribe to the philosophy of this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u13	Mr Van Rompuy, I hear your overall statistics, but what I remember is the linear savings that this government has chosen in terms of social security and the consequences. Do you know the figures for unemployment exclusion? Do you know the numbers of child poverty, of poor families, in which there are children? Are you aware of the consequences of abolishing similar periods on women's pensions? Do you have in mind the number of young people who will not have access to the integration allowance as a result of the measure taken preventing them from accessing it before 21 years or after 25 years? You are presenting global statistics, while the measures taken by the government, such as the index jump that was only compensated for for part of the public, lead the most fragile to a situation that is now more and more close to poverty, while the job creation measures you are announcing, on the one hand, are very expensive and, on the other hand, lead to jobs of very poor quality. I'm thinking flexi-jobs. Moreover, you do not take into account the economy of the future. If, at least, the efforts required of citizens made it possible to invest in research and development, in the search for energy autonomy, in investment in the technologies of the future, which could put Belgium on the European map as one of the leading countries in certain areas which, tomorrow, will create jobs! All you are proposing is cuts in spending and savings on the backs of the most fragile. There is – at least that is what I have always understood – a more social sensitivity within your party, which is not expressed in any way either in the framework of the government agreement or in the day-to-day work of the Finance Committee. This is proof of the lack of efforts to combat tax fraud and all these tax tourists. In addition, in the Committee on Social Affairs, you accept, measure by measure, everything that weakens our social protection model, which is yet one of the greatest economic stabilizers in the crisis that we are experiencing as a result of financial scandals. I want to tell you, Mr. Van Rompuy, don't be blind! On the contrary, wake up! I like Eric Van Rompuy, who is resisting the majority dynamics in this government and who is raising doubts, particularly in terms of the budget! I am not seeing you today with your freedom of speech, and I am disappointed, because I was looking forward to this debate on budgetary adjustment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u14	Mr Van Rompuy, you have referred to the report of the National Bank, which you have mentioned a few figures, which are quite correct. You were one of the first to raise the issue even before the National Bank did. The latter only confirmed what you were saying in one of your writings on the Internet. According to the National Bank, by 2020, €6.6 billion would be needed to finance the tax shift. You who have the sense of the state, what do you think of this situation? Do you think that it is reasonable to give the public finances a budget deficit such as this in the context of a tax reform? Do you think that's acceptable?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u15	Mr President, I should like to repeat what Mr Gilkinet has just said in addition to Mr Van Rompuy's speech. It is not that nothing is being done for those who are at the bottom of society. On the contrary, Mr Gilkinet. As you know, we have to stress again and again that the welfare envelope is being paid in full, that we are doing something about the lowest benefits and the lowest wages, that a lot has been done about the increase in living wages. In absolute figures these may not be very large amounts, but the living wage is increased by EUR 800 per person on an annual basis. If you say that we are doing nothing for that group of society, then that is totally unjustified. The aim is to increase the purchasing power of the least-earned and the lowest incomes, not only of beneficiaries but also of employees. Many of the tax-shift measures focus precisely on those lowest wages. Many of the investments made by this tax shift in lower wage costs are just focusing on lower wages to provide as much job creation as possible. If you say that we do not take that into account, it is completely against the figures and the facts. Moreover, as Mr Van Rompuy has said, the report of the National Bank confirms once again that it was last year, but that is certainly this year that purchasing power is not falling. On the contrary, it is expected that purchasing power will increase, not only for the average Belgian but also for those at the bottom of society. So don't come up with your story over and over again that we're doing nothing on that side.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u16	Mr President, I believe that Mrs Smaers has replied clearly and I cannot add anything to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u17	The speaker should be given the opportunity to speak!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u18	Mr President, I cannot let the distorted analysis of Mrs Smaers and the whole CD&V go through. When we decide on an increase in VAT, when we decide on measures that will make justice less accessible, when we decide on a linear reduction in public services, it is the most fragile ones who pay for it. This majority decided on an index jump that applied to all workers and social recipients. This has been partially offset for some social beneficiaries but not for others, and it strikes them very hard because we are talking about families for which every euro counts at the end of the month. When you deprive them of adjusting their income to changes in the cost of living, you simply prevent them from completing the month correctly. As for the measurement of the tax shift, I demonstrated it when it was discussed here in December, it does not focus on the lowest incomes. All studies, particularly those of the IRES of the Catholic University of Leuven, show that if there had been a concentration of reductions in social contributions on the lowest wages, which has not been done, there would have been a much higher multiplier effect. It's good to be happy about job creation! I also welcome the fact that there are more jobs, but we must put these job creations in terms of the total cost, and in particular the social cost, of the tax shift. The cost per job created is particularly high and this cost is even higher for the most vulnerable social categories. In this, you miss the target you say you want to favour by being attentive to the most fragile. Mrs. Smaers, I have to contradict you, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u19	I am not going to debit all these figures, but the living wage increases by 6% in one year and the minimum pensions by 4%. Mr Calvo, I advise you to read figures instead of debiting slogans. The living wage and minimum pensions are rising. The net wage of an average two-earner in this country rises between 65 euros and 84 euros. You can't find much of that, but those are numbers. I am being challenged to say something about the budget. We are indeed concerned about that, and we are all concerned about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u20	Mr President, I would like to comment on a number of Mr. Van Rompuy, who is talking about a 6% increase in social benefits, if I am not mistaken.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u21	The living wages.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u22	Integration income, therefore. When you say 6%, I think you're referring to the 2% increase in the Well-Being envelope. Is that it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u23	Yes, it's up to 900 million dollars.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u24	It is the social correction of the tax shift and the passage of the index-pivot that there was this month. I think that's where you get your 6%. Is that how they decompose? You don't know that well anymore?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u25	I will give you the figures as I found them in the explanatory memorandum on budgetary control, which contain figures which I assume are correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u26	You can take 3 times 2%, that's 6%. But you still have to remove the 2% index jump. Thus, 4 per cent remains. And you can't count as an increase in purchasing power the change in the index-pivot, which is simply an adaptation to the increase in prices. So you have 2% left, which corresponds to the Well-Being envelope, which is a measure that has existed for a long time and which cannot be claimed to be a measure of this government. Finally, of your 6%, there's 0% left, Mr. Van Rompuy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u27	Mr Van Hees, I am not going to have a debate with you on the economy, because you need to double all wages, increase all public spending, nationalisation of banks, nationalisation of companies, we need to leave Europe. You are very popular in Wallonia because no one contradicts you, but that does not impress me at all. What's your alternative? No competitiveness? No clean-up of public finances? What's your alternative?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u28	I can hear your pirouette when you're in trouble on that 6%, which is actually 0%, trying to postpone the debate; I take note of that, Mr Van Rompuy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u29	It takes a lot more to destabilize me than an intervention by Mr. Van Hees, Mr. President. We are concerned about the budget and I believe that Parliament as a whole agrees on this. We thought that the reform would be speeded up, but the slow economic growth and the asylum crisis mean that the pace of reform is lower than we had envisaged. Between 2012 and 2015, the structural balance improved by a small EUR 3 billion. According to all possible reports from, among others, the Court of Auditors, the National Bank or the Planning Bureau, we still have considerable efforts to achieve a structural balance in 2019. We are talking about EUR 8 billion. That's a hell of a job. This budgetary control gave a number of opportunities to increase revenue: the caiman tax, the institutional real estate funds, the diamond tax, the tax on taxation, the speculative tax. It is clear that the revenue from this has yet to be realised. The Minister for Finance also said in his reply that there are a number of points of uncertainty, because it concerns capital taxes which are often not known what the final return will be. Think about the discussion about the cayman tax and the tax regularisation. Nor will it be evident to obtain any anticipated income from a capital tax, whether it be a capital gain tax or an added value tax. That's very specific to that kind of taxes. It remains a problem, Mr Laaouej. I'm not denying that! There is also the problem that revenue in the first four months is about EUR 1 billion behind schedule, but it may be reduced in the second half of the year by some technical elements, as the Minister of Finance has already mentioned. In short, there is still great uncertainty about the revenue from the measures taken and the spontaneous evolution of EUR 1.5 billion. Things can turn out good or bad. We will see that in the coming months. It is also important that we get all the measures adopted as soon as possible. The real estate fund will be on the committee next week. In the Tax Programme Act there are also a number of elements of the caiman and diamond tax, and tax regularisation also comes back. Capital taxes remain risk taxes. This will continue to be the case in the future. To sum up, we will have to continue to clean up. Our group maintains its position that we need to strike a balance in 2018-2019. Whether that should be nominal or structural, there is still discussion about this. In any case, this will require considerable efforts. The figures are inevitable. Eight billion must be found, around 2% of gross national income, in order to achieve a balance in 2019. This will require efforts, both on the expenditure side and on the revenue side. The 2017 budget may require 3 billion. There will have to be cuts in expenditure and there should be no taboos. New sources of income other than labour should also be sought. Last year we put the added value tax on the table. That proposal was not retained. Mrs Kitir, fair taxation is an important point for us and we will put it on the table in the budget negotiations. I can see that in the other parties, but we do not stick to a formula. The dual income tax is one of the possibilities, but that is a very broad concept. It's almost a container concept. It concerns all property income: both interest, dividends, rents, realised capital gains on assets, on movable and immovable property, and real rental income. There are many aspects to that. We expect the Minister of Finance to put forward a number of proposals in these areas, in connection with capital gains tax in the broad sense of the word, which make the 3 billion package also a fair tax aspect. Of course, as we are now putting it, it is not about the small homeowner, the SME or anyone who cashed an added value in the sale of his business; everything above EUR 1 million is negotiable, but everything below that does not remain. There are also the owners of a second home. There are so many aspects to a capital gain tax. That needs to be looked at in the government. The sensitivities are often different there. I think we're in front of a wall right now. We need to find 3 billion in 2017 and 8 billion. So, in addition to structural savings, we will have to look for new revenues. So it's still a very heavy task. Our group will approve this budgetary adjustment, but the road is still long, Mr Cheron. There are no alternatives. Ecolo is talking about reducing working hours and raising taxes by 8 billion, but these are not alternatives, because they do not safeguard competitiveness. We are trying to find the difficult way in which, in the long term, expenditure savings that are socially equitable and new revenues that take into account the capacity of everyone. That is the difficult way the government is going. As chairman of the Finance and Budget Committee, I am a critical observer. Mr Calvo, I would also like to say what it says. We have to go to solutions, and they are not found with slogans or with cheap solutions, which are not there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u30	Mr Van Rompuy, allow me to interrupt you for a moment. I find it very difficult when you talk about the difficult path the government is taking. Do you know who's struggling, who deserves praise here today and who we should thank on our bare knees? Those are all those workers who are sweating for our country. That is the part-time mother, whose income you have drastically reduced. Those are the people who have to work longer from the government, but do not get any perspective on workable work. Mr Peeters allowed them to exchange holidays within the framework of his plan "Workable and manoeuvrable work'. Those people are having a hard time. However, don't come here with a bit of a charm, Mr Van Overtveldt, dear Mrs Wilmès, who have to take such a difficult road. That's bullshit, that's bullshit.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u31	Mr Van Rompuy, you tell us that we will still have to make efforts and that billions of savings will have to be achieved. It is not a very happy prospect that you are announcing to us. Indeed, for someone who has a parliamentary income like you, it is not a problem, but it is something else for the little people. You who have a great deal of experience in politics and especially in CD&V, you know who said, and in what year: "I see the end of the tunnel. We'll be out of the tunnel soon." Do you know who said that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u32	Wilfried Martens.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u33	Yes, and do you remember when that was? Do you see your right-wing policy? It was the '80s. We're still in the tunnel! We're still not out! You tell us we have to make an effort of 8 billion euros and we're going out of the tunnel.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u34	Mr Van Hees, when you speak of history, I am the only one who has been through the year 1985. By the way, CD&V had won the election with the slogan "The end of the tunnel." Wilfried Martens then formed a government with Guy Verhofstadt. The budget deficit which had risen to 15% of GDP now we are talking about 2% of GDP has been reduced to 7% in the government of Martens-Verhofstadt. Inflation was higher in the early 1980s. There was a devaluation and the index jump was developed. Employment has increased enormously in the years 1987-1988. The Socialists then came to the government, le retour du coeur. Mrs. Onkelinx was here at the time. That turnaround that Martens has accomplished, was preserved. In the 1990s, too, there has been an enormous development of the economy and of employment. These measures, the three index jumps in the 1980s and the efforts to improve public finances have saved Belgium. It was the period of devaluation, of the closure of major national sectors such as Cockerill-Sambre. There was a major job loss in the five national sectors. Because of that turnaround that was made in 1985 and that CD&V was the engine, we finally saved the economy. Now, once again, we face a difficult challenge. Everyone, I am not talking about socialists, liberals or nationalists. There are no ten ways to create jobs in the coming years, clean up public finances, renovate the economy and so on. That's a tough road. This is not done with slogans and certainly not with a return to Marxism as you advocate, with nationalisation of everything or thinking that it can only be done by imposing a tax on some people while encouraging the whole economy. Mr Van Hees, I am not going to repeat it ten times, but save us from your alternative.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u35	Mr. Chair, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today we have to support and approve the bill to adjust the Ways and Means Budget and the 2016 General Estimates. So this is an important moment. I would like to say that the MR Group welcomes the agreement reached within the government because it is the result of serious, credible work that combines the imperatives of the government with those of the European bodies. We maintain the goal of a return to balance in 2018 and try to comply with the 2016-2019 Stability Pact. This adjustment is the government's ADN, which combines two objectives from the beginning: on the one hand, the consolidation of our public finances and, on the other, the predominant attention to employment, purchasing power, the fight against fraud and the strengthening of security despite the difficult context and the world economy in difficulty. The government's approach in this exercise has been coherent and proactive, as in addition to budgetary adjustment, it has decided to go further in structural reforms through an ambitious change in the labour market, an intensification of the fight against fraud and a fight against certain harmful behaviour. The European Commission – excuse me for sniffing, but I am a little cold – has confirmed the positive impact of the structural reforms implemented in terms of pensions, taxes and employment policy. It also confirmed that it expected an improvement in activity in 2017 and highlighted the expected progress in business competitiveness through the initiatives that have been taken. So, we think, the government is on the right track. Of course, my colleague Ahmed Laaouej has pointed out this, but it is perfectly normal that the Court of Auditors has undertaken a critical and precise exercise of expenditure and revenue, as well as measures having an influence on them. It is happy and healthy; the Court of Auditors is there for that. She stressed the uncertainty of the results of some new measures; that is true, but they are difficult to estimate because we do not yet know all the operational aspects. All this is quite normal because the budget is also an ambition, it is a line drawn, it is an objective and a expressed will. It's not an account, it's a budget. Beyond these few reservations, the Court rightly makes clear positive remarks, Minister of Budget. She stressed that the drafting of budget documents had been a positive development, that there had been good collaboration with the Budget FPS and the Finance FPS. She says she's better informed. His comments are, therefore, much more precise and precise than in the past. It also receives positive margins on both the underestimation of revenue and overestimation of expenditure. The Court notes that there are also far fewer indications of insufficient appropriations. Things get better each time a little more. Everyone is perfectable and the work can be more and more precise. I think the Budget Minister has shown all her qualities, all her mastery of the subject. Through this serious and balanced agreement, we need to highlight some important elements that can only be welcomed: labour incomes and allowances are preserved, no new tax against employment and the purchasing power of citizens, reinforcement of structural measures (employment, pensions, unavailability on the labour market), maintenance of the objectives defined in the framework of the tax shift with a strengthening of the purchasing power of workers which will gradually be implemented, Mr Laaouej, and of course continue to create jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u36	Just a question, Mr Piedboeuf, do you consider that increases in VAT and excise duties are not taxes that have an impact on purchasing power? You'll have to explain to me because I'm not following you anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u37	On the one hand, it depends on how they are targeted. When it comes to increasing excise duties, certain behaviours are targeted. On the other hand, of course, the increase in purchasing power is made by difference between the revenues that are actually increases of some small elements and what falls into the citizen's pocket thanks to the tax shift that you will see progress as and when. Mr. Van Rompuy showed you that again. There is also a strengthening of measures to combat tax fraud. We're planning 65 million euros. You say that's not enough. We hope much more, of course, but we must remain modest in its forecasts, while having much more important objectives and we must know that, in the first four months of 2016, you have seen, the fight against tax fraud produces much more income than in previous years, since over four months, we have achieved revenues equivalent to a full year, 2015 for example, even 2013. Minister Van Overtveld recalled that the recovery rate and the number of files handled by the ISI was on the rise. We even broke the record in numbers of cases handled. All these good statistics have been made possible because the government has, of course, invested in the fight against tax fraud with, as is well known, the recruitment of new agents, additional supervisory staff, and more resources devoted to the study and use of the most advanced technologies. And over the next few weeks, we will see the implementation of twelve new measures to combat tax fraud. On the other hand, we are all concerned, and we have all demonstrated our willingness to fight tax evasion at the same time in the Panama Papers Committee yesterday. We all agree that combating fraud is quite easy. But fighting escape requires a little more fingering and work. We also saw yesterday a new demonstration that no one did anything. Since no one has done anything, we will have to take care of it and manage to avoid this kind of behavior. I recall that this policy is already being implemented now, with 90,000 companies created in 2015. It's been a record, a performance for ten years. The number of bankruptcies has been lowest since 2008. The number of unemployed has been at the lowest in 25 years. The wage disability will be eliminated for the first time in 25 years. It was also mentioned earlier about the BNB forecasts and the Planning Office's forecasts for job creation. As you said, we must indeed take into account a whole series of elements, but the world has also changed. Growth has changed. There have been dramatic elements that slow down a whole series of parameters. Consequently, job creation in this difficult context is a very positive element. Of course, the work is not done. That is why my group encourages the government to continue implementing structural reforms in order to revive our economy and continue to create jobs in order to sustain our social security by keeping the 2018 budget heading. With this budgetary control, the 2016 budget remains on track and our government remains on track. It respects its European commitments and ensures the credibility of our country. The times are hard and difficult, but the path followed will make our future and that of the younger generations safer. We must collectively, all parties at all levels of power, have the courage of true and lasting solidarity. Minister, Minister of Finance, the MR Group will therefore support these budgetary adjustments and will continue to support this proactive policy. Mr Laaouej, I'm glad you're happy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u38	Mr President, there is no need for much additional explanation when I say that the context in which we have to work is particularly difficult and challenging. I am talking about the international context: the disappointing growth in China, the uncertainty about the brexirefementum, the result of which is well known, but there is not much certainty yet and the run-up to the referendum was not too good either. Growth is not attracting enough in Europe, which is why the European Central Bank maintains its policy of negative interest rates. The international context is therefore particularly difficult and the open Belgian economy is directly affected by this. Moreover, our starting point, when the government took office, was not so positive either. Belgium is a country with a very high debt. We have left with a very high debt and a very large deficit. When the government took office, the government spent 12 billion more than it received each year. That is normally not possible for too long. In addition, there was also a very high level of public debt, which was well above 50%, with the highest burden that can be found. However, in this particularly difficult international and national context, the government manages to present a very good report in those few years. We have left with a historically high number of bankruptcies and today we have a historically high number of start-ups. While we have experienced huge job losses in the private sector, we have new jobs today: 65 000 new jobs have been created. The National Bank assumes an increase in job creation in the private sector. By 2018, 181 000 additional jobs should be added. That is an immense achievement, especially in this context. The unemployment rate is falling and the employment rate is rising. The citizen sees the result today. Before the government took office, we said that difficult efforts would be called for, and they are indeed requested. However, it has already been said that there is a light at the end of the tunnel and we are already seeing that light today. While disposable income has fallen in the previous legislature, it has already risen by 1.2 % this year. That will also have consequences. As a result, people will spend a little more, consumption will attract again. The major challenge is, of course, the budget. I told you, we left with a situation where the government spent 12 billion more than they got in, every year. Last year we eliminated 0.5 % of GDP. This year, too, we will reduce the structural balance by 0.6%. Once again, the difference is great. It's a beautiful achievement. Of course, there are still a lot of challenges.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u39	Mr Dedecker, I hear you referring to an enormous achievement and a fine report. However, I do not quite understand what that fine report is all about. You are referring to the fact that public debt is historically high here. That's right. However, this public debt has only increased since this government took office. According to Eurostat's latest figures, we have a public debt of 106 % of GDP. If we can believe the IMF's prospects for 2016, this government debt will not fail in the coming years. At the end of Michel I, according to the IMF's economic forecast, this debt would be as high as, or perhaps even higher than, the Di Rupo government. You also referred to the structural balance. That's worse than last year. The budget deficit is even worse at 2.8 % than last year. At that time it was 2.6 %. You look questionable, but these are figures from the European Commission in May 2016. So I wonder what that beautiful report is about. Of course, it is not difficult to do better than the previous government. It is not difficult for you to submit a better report than the previous government. That does not mean, however, that it will be a good report and a good one. If one comes out of such a bad situation, then, of course, employment will increase. Today, however, it is still a fact that only in Greece, Italy and Spain there are relatively fewer people at work than with us. So now to speak of a huge achievement and a fine report: I think that is at least an exaggeration.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u40	Mrs Pas, you have raised a number of different issues. I will certainly come back to the latter, but I will start with your figures; I wonder where you get those figures from. The National Bank has just confirmed it, the government debt in Belgium is falling. It has now fallen once thanks to the repayment of KBC's loans, but it is predicted that it will continue to decline in the coming years. With regard to your last comment, about today's report that there are no such few people working outside Italy and Greece as there are in Belgium: that is indeed a huge challenge that we have begun to face. Getting more people to work and keeping them longer at work is absolutely the prime objective of this government. That is where we still have challenges. A third of the pension rights that one builds are built up during periods when one is not at work. That is an inheritance, that is unacceptable, that is not the way we should proceed. More people longer at work is the great ambition. We will succeed in this. I just gave you the job creation figures. We manage to keep people working longer, and we have made a huge reform of the pension reform there. And it pays, thanks to that reform, the cost of ageing has been halved in the long term. They're cut in half, Mrs. Pas. That is one of the great achievements that we can present. This is also recognised internationally. I am not here to shake my hand, which is internationally recognised, and the European Commission and the European Council also confirm this. Thanks to this reform, just because of the reduction in the cost of ageing, problem No. 1 in the previous legislature, just as this reduces the European Commission's medium-term objectives for Belgium. We had to make a surplus on our budget in order to cope with these ageing costs. That objective has now been reduced by the European Commission to a balance, a balance sufficient. We are not going to settle for that; we are still going for a surplus. As you can see, these efforts are internationally recognised. There's a light at the end of the tunnel. We already see today that it pays off. Last year there was a discussion here on the first reports of the Monitoring Committee. The opposition said here that we should not give further reductions to employers without tough guarantees, without a contract with that employer that he would create jobs in return. We all know that, of course, this is not possible. One cannot do it that way. However, we can see today that this reduction in the burden on labour, also one of Belgium's biggest problems, is having an effect. We're seeing more recruitments today. We're seeing a record number of first recruits. We see a strong increase in jobs in general and a record number of starters. We see once again that the government has been right because of the facts and the opposition is wrong. It was also said here that there was a gap of more than EUR 2 billion in the budget and that there would be a social massacre. Luckily, I didn't see one. Thanks to the cautious policy, by working with buffers, only an adjustment of EUR 680 million was needed, all in line with past adjustments. In the past, greater challenges have been faced in budgetary control. Once again, this budgetary control is now being successfully completed, not as in the past with a new round of tax increases, certainly not with tax increases on the roof of the working man, but by raising income from charges on environmental pollution, from a banking tax, from wealth. Income from labour is absolutely spared. Again, that is a very nice achievement. What is not sufficiently highlighted here, which is not directly mentioned in the budget itself but was part of budgetary control, is, of course, the fight against fraud. The fight against fraud is justified. Society no longer accepts that an ordinary working man is being flattened because there are still people who slip through the loopholes of the net. We do not accept that either, nor do we accept this government. That is why we have been able to take no less than ten measures in one year. That's a lot more than in the previous legislature. Now we are talking about ten measures in one year's time. You will see that out of the 50 pages of the programme law adopted in committee last week, which will soon be on the agenda of the plenary session, no less than 45 pages of the anti-fraud cell. That is a nice realization, a nice strong effort that also delivers results. We have also seen the results of the last year's efforts. At four months this year the same amount was collected as before in a full year. Here too we should be proud of a very nice achievement. We save who works, saves and takes and we get the money where it is, from the fraudsters. We reduce the burden on labour. We create jobs. There's a light at the end of the tunnel. We can't repeat it enough. It's only gonna get better. This is the only way forward for a lasting recovery of the country, for the competitiveness and prosperity of our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u41	Mr President, Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the budgetary control we are discussing today was a difficult exercise for which the government stood: no less than EUR 2.2 billion had to be sought. That is a very high amount, but not exceptional: in 2013 the government had to look for 2.8 billion, so things are not that new. Secondly, I do not think there is sufficient support for this to be done in a particularly difficult context. What happened in our country on March 22nd literally changed our country. Not only mentally, it has also had an economic aftermath. If one then finds that, for example, in April VAT receipts fell by 155 million euros compared to 2015, when one sees that the advance payments are disappointing, also because of the crisis that arose, by 154 million, then it is quickly clear why one should ultimately look for such amounts. The Director of the National Bank has himself indicated that these attacks have slowed down our economy by about 0.1%, which is EUR 400 million. Colleagues, it would be wrong to blame the disappointing budget figures solely on these attacks. In other words, the effort required by the government, the adjustment, was considerable. I must say that the government has handled this in an excellent way. But, Minister and Minister, unfortunately, even after this audit, the road to a balanced budget remains a very long one. The estimates of the European Union, the Planning Bureau and the National Bank vary between 8 and 9 billion. I must say, when I was Minister of Budget in Flanders, we had a budget of 27 billion. Meanwhile, it's gone 37 billion. If we have to save 8 or 9 billion on such amounts, on a budget in which the policy area is very limited, this is a very difficult exercise. On the other hand, we cannot escape the fact that every euro of debt we make must ever be paid by our children. I used to say that I dreamed of saving my children that they should only talk about saving. That is the task that we all have to take on together, majority and opposition. We must ensure that this budget is balanced. We must pay particular attention to the way in which we are pursuing this balance, because we must also take account of our economy and ensure that this budgetary approach does not undermine economic growth. Contrary to what the budget suggests, our economy is doing very well at the moment. She's in full recovery. This is also seen in quite a few economic parameters. Mr Van Rompuy has put a number of them on the table. Firstly, tens of thousands of additional jobs, but especially in the private sector. I think there is the difference with the past: we are not creating jobs in the public sector, but in the private sector. Secondly, the wage handicap that we are gradually getting rid of, which is very important for the competitiveness of our companies. Thirdly, business investment growth is now estimated at almost 4% on an annual basis, which is more than positive. Fourthly, our exports are increasing and, fifthly, despite what is being said, our purchasing power is increasing. In other words, the prospects are positive. My group is convinced that this government is pursuing the right economic policy that we need today in Belgium and in Europe. It is based on reductions in charges for those who work, but also for those who work. Maybe in the past, that's lost sight of too much. The result is what we need: jobs, jobs, jobs. This is one of the most basic ways of achieving sustainable economic growth. If we look at budgetary control, the Court of Auditors has been critical, but that is also its role, we can see that, despite the fact that Europe allows us to keep allowances for asylum and migration and for security outside the budget, the government has included in its budget a number of expenditures that are likely to become structural. It is also important that the principle of the zero line, whereby everyone would make the agreed efforts, be extended. That means that every minister must literally turn his own door. In this way we will have a budget which will eventually pass the test of criticism. Reforms of public pensions, disability schemes as well as the basis for calculating RVA and RIZIV benefits are absolutely necessary. It is therefore important for the current government to implement new and additional structural reforms to maintain budgetary targets, both on the revenue and expenditure side. It is important that, through the banking tax, the new statute for real estate companies and excise duties, we generate additional budgetary revenue in a well-thought-out way. On the other hand, we also expect results from the fight against tax fraud. We are also looking at the results of the committee on the Panama Papers. Moreover, the government is also cutting its spending. It has been mentioned here a number of times: in social security too, structural efforts are being made by Minister De Block. It makes additional efforts for an amount of almost 170 million euros, but nevertheless ensures that the patient's invoice remains under control. Minister De Croo presents a framework for the collaborative economy, which is a very innovative approach. In doing so, we encourage entrepreneurship at micro level. We do not do that to keep that entrepreneurship at micro level. It is intended that it can eventually grow into full-fledged self-employed activities, which are ultimately an important source for the economic engine in Belgium. In addition to the fight against tax fraud, we must continue the fight against social fraud and social dumping. The intention of Minister Borsus and Secretary of State Tommelein to address the issue of posting, the illegal posting of staff and, above all, the false self-employment must enable us to proceed with a reorganisation. Our new Secretary of State, Philippe De Backer, will take over that plan. Reforms in civil servants' pensions are, of course, extremely sensitive. In this respect, we must dare to correct a number of distortions, such as leave prior to retirement and so-called sickness pension. We must put a stop to this. At the same time, we must harmonise systems. We must also make the labour market more flexible and flexible. As mayor of a border municipality, I can see with my own eyes the impact of a rigid labour market: many e-commerce activities are being developed just across the border with the Netherlands and every Saturday and Sunday we see Dutch postal companies driving around in our municipality. In this respect, we must try to recover jobs. Mr Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for those who doubt it, a budget is more than just a figure table of revenue and expenditure. A budget is mainly a lever to pursue policies, to conduct economic policies, to stimulate them. I note that with this budgetary control this government is keeping to the reorganisation agreements made with Europe, and that is very important. But I also note that this government, in one movement, is giving an additional boost to the revival of the economy with its reforms. That is why she deserves an award. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a question of finding the right balance over the next few months and years, of checking and balancing between two objectives, of repairing on the one hand and creating economic relance on the other. It's a little water and fire reconcile. There have been less successful examples in the European Union, but I think this government is taking responsibility. We therefore wish this government every success in this budgetary control, which we will be happy to support.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to raise a few points which I regret to note have already been discussed on a regular basis. Mr Van Rompuy said at the end of his speech that there is no alternative, that it is the only way. I would like to remind you that, at the time that this government came up with the tax shift, we supported all the proposals to reduce the burden on businesses, but also on taxpayers. In other words, that is a good thing in view of the objective that this government has set itself, namely the creation of jobs. If there is knocking on the chest today and it is said that jobs have been created and that the prospects are good, I can only support that. I would say, with everything that has happened, that today we should come to the conclusion that no jobs would be created. At that time, we voted against the way in which those jobs, the reduction of charges, were financed. That is a debate we have been having for two years. Mr Van Rompuy, last week we again presented our alternatives in your committee. We have submitted to you to approve the added value tax. You just said that you put that added value tax on the government table last year, that you didn't make it and that you will put it there again this year. However, when it is possible to vote on it here in Parliament, it will be voted off without discussion, because it is not worth discussing it. The second proposal we presented last week is the minimum tax on multinationals. Today it is 5 % and we believe that it may be more, namely 10 %. This is still much lower than the tax imposed on SMEs. That too will be voted off without discussion by CD&V. Colleagues, and colleagues from Cd&V in particular, I would just like to point out that there are alternatives to the financing of the reductions in charges. You do not want to see these alternatives or do not want to approve them. In the back room of the government, you seem to be putting it on the table, but we cannot control it. What we always find is that there is nothing going on in that back room that CD&V likes to unpack on the public forum. In my first point, therefore, I regret the way in which choices have been made in the tax shift. We think it could have been more honest. It is our belief that the burden of financing the tax shift is mainly on the shoulders of ordinary people in our country. Now I come to my second point, which concerns the confusion of speech which is constantly maintained in Parliament by the majority, about higher net wages. We do not dispute that net wages are higher. That was the commitment, by the way, the reduction in charges that we agreed with. However, this does not mean that people now have a higher disposable income. Think of all the invoicing increases at federal and Flemish level. Mr Van Rompuy, you can deny the daylight, but I do not really meet anyone who says that, compared to two years ago, after paying his fixed costs, he will have more to spend on expenses of his own choosing at the end of the month. Honestly, I don't meet a guy like that. I agree, at least as far as some groups are concerned, that people will be left net more after tax measures, because pensioners will not be eligible for this, since the reductions in charges do not apply to them. But I do not think there is any discussion about net disposable income at the end of the month; it is clear that people have deteriorated. You may continue to deny that, but that actually denies the light of the sun. The man and woman in the street feel that completely different. The third point is a point on which the majority should be concerned. The first two points are rather ideological differences between us. In my third point, I would like to mention that, however, Mr Van Rompuy has spoken on a point that we find quite simply that the figures for the 2016 initial budget are not correct. It is mainly about the revenue side, for which Minister Van Overtveldt is responsible. For the 2016 budget, tax revenue was overestimated with almost 700 million, making budgetary control a very unexpected exercise after barely a month and a half. The caiman tax would raise 460 million, but according to its own administration it is not utopian according to the sp.a and not according to the opposition.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Yet the Minister, this majority, once again writes that in the budget: 460 million; utopian, according to its own administration! Corporate tax on intercommunals is challenged before the Constitutional Court. The diamond tax is still with the Economic Commission. The real estate companies would raise 250 million, but we have not yet seen a text on this in Parliament. In the meantime, the alcohol tax appears to have failed because people are going shopping across the border. About the speculative tax, the minister himself says she failed. The Constitutional Court will be consulted on tax regularisation as soon as it is approved here, as indicated by both the Brussels and Walloon regions. Proceedings have also been announced to the Constitutional Court on VAT on online gambling. In other words, the 2016 budget is wrong in the figures. This majority always prides itself on preparing the future, but it digs a well for the next generations! When I think of the redeployment, the control and the adjustment of the budget, which we are seeing today... I have always learned that in drawing up a budget, the principle of caution is important. This generally means that expenditure is a little overrated and that the revenue is a little underestimated. Well, in this budget, revenue is drastically overrated. However, that is laughed away, saying that the economic outlook is fantastic. However, the invoice that they do not want to pay today and will not be paid, will of course be re-presented in the following years. Again, they refuse to see reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u43	Does the sp.a consider that the budget should reach a balance in 2019? The whole discussion is now about the reorganisation project, but does the sp.a think that we should have a balanced budget in 2019?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u44	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u45	Mrs Kitir, you're sitting here criticizing all sorts of things. I am also critical of a number of things, but the objective of this government is a structural balance in 2019. Two points of GDP have to be found to achieve this. That's about 8 billion. Does the sp.a., Mrs Kitir and Mr Vanvelthoven think that this is the objective? Are you then prepared to take measures to achieve that rehabilitation objective in 2019? This is a very specific question. Mrs. Onkelinx, the question is for you too.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u46	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u47	Whether it will be in 2018 or 2019, I will not pronounce on that. There is the nominal balance and structural balance, a structural balance in 2018 and a nominal balance in 2019. No matter how one spins it or turns it, 8 billion must be found. Whether that money should be found in two years or three years, I don't care. This means that an effort of EUR 3 billion will actually have to be made in 2017. Mrs Kitir, do you agree? Do you think we need to clean up more? Mr Calvo, the question is also for you. I put this question to the entire opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u48	As long as you don't have to answer yourself, of course. You're denying the numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u49	You've managed to destabilize yourself by now. You are asking a question to the opposition, to which you do not really know the answer. That's a very funny scene. Mr Vanvelthoven, what will it be, 2018, 2019? And then you get the question bounced back and you say you'll see. Of course, that was not the most brilliant political move. A bit of a weird way of working, but the highlight of this meeting so far. Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u50	2018, 2019. I would like to discuss one more year, whether nominal or structural balance. We are now at a good 10 billion to call it that. Do you think that we should go to balance, or do you think, as some economists say, that this is nonsense, that we should not make that effort and that there is no need for a balance in the budget? Choose one. Mr Calvo, you of the young generation, do you think that we should achieve a balance in 2018-2019? Do you think that's necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u51	We do consider it important to seek a balance, but what we are doing today...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u52	Striving? The Greens in Europe believe that this is all deflation. They are against Maastricht standards and even against the 3% standard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u53	What we're going through today is the worst of both worlds. I declare myself more specific, Mr Van Rompuy. On the one hand, you do not get the budget in order and, on the other hand, there is no investment. That really is the worst of both worlds. Neither one, nor the other, are you successful. I have here on my paper a note on the OECD's recent study. There's hardly any public investment anymore. Nevertheless, you will not get the budget in order. That's a terrible negative spiral, that's not funny. That's not how things bounce. If one were to talk about shifting the balance over time, it would not be because Mr Van Overtveldt cannot do his homework. For me, no additional deficits because tax revenues are not properly managed. When one slides it is to invest. What's happening today? The budget balance is not within reach, the budget is not getting in order and at the same time there is no investment. In any case, that is a situation for which we fit.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u54	Mr President, our colleague is asking a very interesting question. We could indeed organise a meeting in the Finance Committee to hear the economists to whom you refer and who believe that a policy of austerity is counterproductive, especially when it relies on cuts in the budgets allocated to public services and social security, when it raises taxes on consumption. This could be a very interesting debate. I want to ask you a very simple question, Mr Van Rompuy. Who dug a part of the budget hole? Who did not finance half the tax shift with the prospect of a shortfall of more than €6 billion by 2020 that I reminded you? Who dug the budget hole? It's easy to ask questions. But from the moment we created the problem ourselves, we cannot pretend to bring solutions, which is why I understand your embarrassment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u55	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u56	That's normal, Mr. Calvo. We know at least what we want from optimism and will! I simply note that no one answers Mr. Van Rompuy. You answer with questions, but you don't have a solution to offer. You cannot at the same time carry out fiscal consolidation and create jobs, develop the competitiveness of businesses. There is no other solution, you may say what you want! You're not answering the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u57	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u58	We know the alternatives of the Ecolo! [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u59	Mr Piedboeuf, I invite you to continue your speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u60	Do you not think that we are convinced that public investment is necessary? The whole of Europe says so. The whole world says that public investment is needed. But we must have the means to invest and we must not repeat the holes all the time. You have to shut them down before you invest. We're serious managers. This principle is also applied in the municipalities. We can't spend the money we don't have!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u61	Thank you very much, Mr President. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u62	I haven't made up my mind yet, and you're already jumping to conclusions. If we had been invited to the government table, we would have followed the path that Europe prescribes to go to balance. That's done and clear. The question arises as to whether a budget balance is possible by 2018-2019. With the measures that this government has taken so far and which do not make any sense, I would like to see how you will do that. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u63	I hear a lot of big talk here. It is ignored that tax revenues, which are essential to achieving that balance, are undersized every year. I have just listed a dozen of these measures, which are included in the budget but are not worth anything. There are no texts yet, or they are still with the Constitutional Court or with Europe. So it's impossible to go any further. Despite the fact that the Monitoring Committee has thrown out a number of cases, this government is putting them back in. That is not a correct budgetary policy. And then you have the nerve to ask us whether we want a budget balance by 2019. Get your own house in order. Mr Van Rompuy, if we had been in this government, we would have taken a number of measures from the outset. I just listed them. These are measures which you say in public that you are in favour of, but which you always vote away in Parliament and in the government. Apparently, they're put on the table over and over again, but they never make it. If these measures had been introduced, we could have achieved a balanced budget. We would have been farther than we are today. I would like to conclude with a question to Minister Van Overtveldt. Not the question of what he will do with all those measures that are useless, because I expect little or nothing of them. However, I would like to comment on a comment by Mr Van Rompuy, who said just now that CD&V is expecting a proposal from the Minister of Finance on the value added tax and capital gains tax. Will you come up with a proposal? I'm curious and your CD&V colleagues are also curious.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be brief, but I certainly did not want to miss this memorable and dynamic debate, so I would also like to speak on behalf of our group. Soon my dear colleague Georges Gilkinet will continue to fill in. First of all, I would like to point out that a budget adjustment is not only a matter of patching up, but also an opportunity to adjust. The majority of my fellow Members have debated their figures. These figures come back regularly: the private job creation, consumer confidence, the number of start-ups and the number of bankruptcies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u65	Purchasing power.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u66	I will come to that, Mr Van Rompuy. Some positive indicators are always mentioned. I would remind you that not so long ago, after five hundred days of Michael's administration, we produced a report with the pluses and the mins. I note that to this day only the indicators that look a little more positive attract the attention of this majority, while the many warnings and even negative elements are ignored. This budgetary adjustment does not lead to any adjustment, and I regret that. I mention, for example, the decreasing rate of effectiveness. Today, the Planning Bureau published a study on the social indicators, which are anything but rosy. Economic growth is slower than in the rest of Europe. Recently, the OECD also published a study on the massive fall in the number of investments. Of course, I also mention our country's environmental report. We are not only in a society and in a world post-Panama, but also in post-Paris, with the climate agreement. Only, we have neither a minister, nor a government, nor a budget, nor a budgetary adjustment that makes progress in this area. Mr Minister and fellow Members of the majority, I would like to encourage you not to look for excuses to explain those indicators. So you don't have to screen with the Brexit or the impact of the attacks today. It also has to do with the fact that the mayonnaise doesn't take, because of the recipe you chose, with little investment, a lot of savings for people who work and a lot of savings for people who are already struggling. This is partly due to the fact that our economic engine does not really attract, or at least attracts less than in the rest of Europe. That's an introduction. Perhaps some more specific elements on the budgetary adjustment. I mentioned a lot of them in committee. I shall confine myself here to four comments. Firstly, Mrs Wilmès, you have not been outgrown in Parliament for very long. You succeeded Mr Jamar less than a year ago, for whom a runway was still provided by this government, with the governorship. Not long ago, you were also a Member of Parliament, and I am somewhat sorry that you have included little or no commitment in committee to tackle the lack of transparency, which is becoming increasingly a problem. The Court of Auditors points this out. The Court of Auditors also sharpens its criticism. It has made the exercise: EUR 1.6 billion in commissions and EUR 1.1 billion in underutilisation make the budget much less readable. You're hiding your political choices. You are undermining the power of the legislator in this matter. This is my first point of criticism. I really appeal to your recent parliamentary history to ask you to correct this. I suppose you haven't been the Minister for Parliament for a long time after all. You have been Minister for less than a year, so I would like to appeal to your recent past to make an urgent correction. Secondly, I am very sorry that the government is not working on the latest assessments as far as the figures on asylum and security are concerned. Nor can I call this a form of caution, as it falls outside the budget. I honestly don't understand that. This also contributes to the lack of transparency of this budgetary adjustment. Third, and that's my stick horse. Our group has visited the Court of Auditors to get the sheets, and we have examined them very carefully about the Panamanian measures. I am still very hungry, Mr Van Rompuy, when I find that the figure that is currently budget-based and fixed is barely EUR 7.8 million. I believe that Mr Dedecker was talking about stepping up in the area of tax fraud and tax evasion. I am pleased that you have shown the same persistence this week as Mr Almaci, for example, to investigate the Optima dossier. However, I do not see this persistence when it does not involve socialists. The fight against tax fraud is just a skinny beast. Once again, the budgetary adjustment does not support Panama's measures for EUR 7.8 million. Mr Van Rompuy, you continue to tolerate and accept this. You will continue to approve budgetary adjustments which seek and obtain more from people who are in difficulty and from people who are ill than from those who are avoiding taxes on Panama. You're nodding. I am simply reading from the fact sheets of the Court of Auditors and from the correspondence of Mr Van Overveldt's office with the Court of Auditors. Barely four fact sheets of the measures have been delivered. Barely three chips have a substantiated and quantified budgetary impact for 2016. The most important measure is a measure that gives an appointment in 2017. A fourth point is also a point for Mr Dedecker and the N-VA. That's the big farce of the redesign. Mr. Dedecker, you went to the elections with the Moesen norm. Your party chairman says to this day that the state is fat and that the euro is at its disposal. Mr Van Rompuy, you have also referred to it, albeit a little more nuanced. Freedom of speech is for majority MEPs mainly via blog and much less in Parliament. However, you also referred to it. The N-VA suggests that we must save, that there is still a lot of room and that it is time that we do so urgently. In the meantime, the Minister of Civil Service, Mr Vandeput, has had a mandate for a number of months, and no one has prevented him from saving EUR 100 million through modernisation, efficiency, digitisation of the government and the pooling of public procurement. Colleagues of the majority, that amount of EUR 100 million is the best kept secret of the Rue de la Loi. It is quite a punishment for Mr Vandeput to be allowed to do so. The party of reorganisations and savings has its own minister in the ranks who gets nothing on this issue. Mr Dedecker, in fact, he spends more on consultants to enable this redesign than he manages to obtain revenue through that redesign process. Should André Flahaut or Jean-Marc Delizée have done so in their capacity as Minister of Civil Service, or should Mrs Onkelinx have done so in her capacity as Deputy Prime Minister, you would have called a major press conference and asked a committee of inquiry into the consultants who hired socialist ministers, because these consultants would be more expensive than the savings they would make. The barf would've been too small. Mr. Jambon was still there at the time. Or maybe even Mr. Bracke. After all, he easily asked an actual question about these things in the previous legislature. Siegfried Bracke would have stood here to say that it was an absolute disgrace, socialist pivotalism, to spend more on consultants than those consultants have. That's the Vandeput model. That's Steven Vandeput's redesign. The N-VA has been there for months and really only helps it more. I regret that because there are a lot of fucking young officials, especially young officials, who crave a redesign exercise. There are public services, FODs and PODs, who want to cooperate and who do not find any ally in this Minister of Civil Service. You're frowning the eyebrows, Mr Van Rompuy. It is time for this Parliament to tell Mr Vandeput that it is enough, that he is not an intern and that it is time to delive. A Minister of Civil Service who receives this assignment cannot simply arrive with an invoice from consultants. Do you, Mr. Dedecker? Now give me your most personal opinion on that. Do you think it is normal for us to spend more on consultants at the moment than the story of redesign produces? Is that the power of change?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u67	Mr Calvo, it's a little easy. We are the last days of June. The amount entered in the redesign budget is an amount that we will achieve at the end of December. Indeed, we are now making an investment and a number of modernisation operations which will bring us a result by the end of December. If you can say today that we will spend more than we will save, then I would look for another job, Mr Calvo. As Madame Soleil, you can earn more.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u68	So you will soon be buying computers in the solders and in December they will yield millions of euros. There were, I think, stronger ways to refute that problem. Now say you'll be investing in June and July and that in December it'll be incredibly expensive... the solders are fun, but that's utopia. If Flahaut or Daerden had said something like this in the previous legislature: we are going to invest in June and July and in December the administrations will save millions of euros, you would have attacked them head-on. I don't even want to go that far. I have just been asking Steven Vandeput for months, very kindly, to put something on the table, to tell us what that redesign is and to give that perspective to the officials who want to contribute to it. Do you know what Mr Vandeput's answer is? There are two versions. A few weeks ago, it sounded like he wasn't responsible for that. You should take a look at the organogram of the redesign, Mr Van Overtveldt. The organogram of the club is more complex than the organogram of a typical multinational. That is the efficiency and optimisation of this majority, Mr Dedecker. That's not serious. For months now, I have been asking Vandeput to come up with concrete ideas and plans. At first, he wasn't authorized. Mr. Demon is not here. We have recently had a hearing on this in the Committee on the Interior at the Finance Committee, which was far from optimal, Mr Dedecker. At that time we could not ask questions about the budget because we were all on the Finance Committee. Mr Demon, who is a strong member of the Committee on the Interior, has asked that question. Steven Vandeput has said that he does not want to give any budgetary assessment of the redesign.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u69	Mr Calvo, the problem with you is that you have always interesting comments, but you are skeptical with variable geometry. You have just told us about the Panama issue, about which much more revenue should be expected. When the journalists told us in committee that they had counted 750 cases of Belgians who had committed this or that, it was possible to observe, after a serious analysis of the ISI, that some had died, others had been taken over 100 times, yet others had already regularized their situation. Thus, of these 750 cases, 130 or 140 remain. In view of the above, you remain unreactioned. You're not sceptical about the journalists' statements. As far as the redesign plan is concerned, you attach yourself to a word that bothers you, but a work plan has been presented. Of course, public servants are involved and experts are brought with them. That is not forbidden! Do you want more examples? You're defending the PS! All right! The left alliance with the communists is very good! But in reality, you can't do a serious job without studying things fine. And if you think that to do this, you need to be advised, you do! We do it everywhere!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u70	Mr Piedboeuf, the situation described by Mr Calvo is even more serious than he says! You have programmed 650 million in the budget for the redesign of the administration and no concrete plan has yet been tabled. I will use the words of the Minister of Budget: "Six guidelines with sub-projects. Meetings are planned to follow the journeys. Are there any measures already taken? We must see with Mr Vandeput who, himself, returns to Mrs Wilmès." All this has been said in committee. "All this will depend on the good will of the administrations." Anyway, there's nothing! 650 million by 2019! You can add them to the 8 billion that the National Bank tells you!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u71	Mr President, Mr Calvo has asked a question which I would like to address. Last year, during the tax shift, this government made certain agreements that should be honoured. These agreements were also reaffirmed in budgetary control. If we want savings to be made in civil servants' cases this year, it will undoubtedly be possible to do so with quick wins on the left and right, but with the start of structural measures, so that they will be able to raise the higher amounts on the deadlines by 2020, as laid down in the tax-shift agreements. Mr Calvo, with regard to the consultants, we do not need special committees or committees of inquiry. Once upon a time, great ambitions have been expressed with regard to the reform of the administration. I was in the opposition then, and I said the same thing you said now. That is what we are saying again today. You referred to socialist ministers. There was then a Socialist Minister of Civil Service, then Minister Van den Bossche. He's spent phenomenally a lot of money on consultants. He wasn't happy about it at the end. Many consultants delivered performances he was not satisfied with. He said that we were paying by letting people learn by doing. It is not intended to give consultants know-how at the expense of the taxpayer. This does not mean, however, that we cannot and should not engage external expertise on the left and right, but we can and should only do so in addition, after we have exhausted the expertise we have in the house, fortunately we have a lot of expertise in the home. Don't let Copernicus' mistakes repeat themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u72	I made the comparison with a socialist minister with a quagmire, but Mr Verherstraeten is therefore of the opinion. He actually said that Minister Vandeput is making the same mistakes as Luc Van den Bossche during Copernicus. In the meantime, I know Mr Verherstraeten enough to know that he is only intervening to give you a message, Mr Dedecker. What's that message? Is that message, for example, that Kris Peeters' CD&V ministers may be tired of saving social security time and time again, in order to establish that a Minister of Civil Service does not make his commitments concrete? When they turn on their television on Sundays, they hear the great emperor of Antwerp say that it is very easy to save. I read that between the lines in Mr Verherstraeten's speech. It is a call that has already come from various groups, to tell Steven Vandeput that it is time to make that redesign concrete. I am asking myself very big questions for this year, EUR 100 million, especially if it is indeed the ambition to save EUR 600 million at cruising speed, on top of the existing savings, the definite savings. Mr Verherstraeten, the quick wins are not in the savings, but in the underutilisation. They were already there the previous legislature. You are now saying that you can do something with quick wins. No, we must now work thoroughly, we must now also reward the frontrunners in the administration, that path of linear savings is completely abandoned. We had a Secretary of State for Civil Service in the previous legislature who did so with passion and vision. I remember it very well. I followed the previous legislature of Civil Service cases: Mr Bogaert came to the committee with his PowerPoint and he told what he was going to do, what he wanted to do with those officials, along with those public services. Today we have a Minister of Civil Service who hires consultants, who writes a check and will see it afterwards. I absolutely wanted to make that fourth point. Mr Dedecker, I understand that it is difficult for you to explicitly whistle Mr Vandeput back here in plenary, but please do so at the next party board of the N-VA, because that fair of redesign has lasted long enough. It has taken Mr Vandeput long enough to keep everything and everyone in the waddle.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u73	Mr Calvo, I have already said that you can get to work as Mr Soleil. That would indeed not be a bad thing. After all, there is a difference. On the one hand, there is such a thing as announcement policy. There used to be greens announcing everything. On the other hand, there's a story like do-it-yourself politics. Mr Vandeput does not come here every week proposing his plans for the coming months. I think it's best he doesn't. However, I can assure you that the result will be there. You can take care of him on the result. I invite you not to take care of him on all your blah today, but on the result. That would be the best way to work. Take it out on the result and not on the confusing communication you're putting forward here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u74	Mr Dedecker, if we follow your logic, we will see to the results, we must then withdraw the EUR 100 million from the budget adjustment. If we want to be consistent, if we want to wait for the results, since the results are not there, we must withdraw the EUR 100 million from the budget adjustment because it is an economy which, for the moment, is not based on anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u75	I was present at the committee meeting at which Minister Vandeput explained all this. If the whole process is followed, I believe that it will take at least another year and a half to achieve these results. I had to observe that Minister Vandeput asked his staff and the administration to submit a number of scenarios, which he then looked at with different ministers. The explanation was really unconvincing, and I think that Mr Calvo has interpreted this very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u76	I find it even more interesting than before. Mr Calvo has just sued that the Minister is too often appealing to consultants and not listening to his own people. Now Mrs De Coninck complains that the Minister is asking for an input from his own people. I think that is a very good thing. What is it now? Which one's right here? I don't think either of them. I think the Minister is using both, and that is a very good thing. He obtains external advice and calls on his own qualitative people, with input from his own administration. That's a very good way of working. Again, feel free to count on the results.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u77	Mr Dedecker, I had hoped to experience a certain openness with you in the matter. I would like to ask you whether it is really a good idea to spend more on consultants than what the redesign will bring in the coming year. Just think about it again if you think that's a good idea or not and let me know. I think it's a strange way of working. If you allow Mr Vandeput to go through that line, please ask your party chairman that he does not honk so much about the mud grease, where the euro is at hand, because that is not the case. In fact, you are doing nothing but insulting people who stick their necks out, who are working hard, who are already working in difficult conditions in many public services today, where they are sitting on the gums and where they are lacking. It must be done with those people if one can present such a poor result with the trajectory of the redesign at this stage. If you promise that Mr Vandeput will wake up and shoot out of the starting blocks, I hope so with you. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to look forward. There is still a very great effort to be made. We read in the media that the exercise would be postponed until after the summer. I take note of that. What interests me much more than the timing of the exercise is the substantive direction of the exercise. I would like to take this opportunity to invite you to keep this under review, to take the many indicators that stand on orange or red to heart, and to take the lever to get out of the negative spiral, in particular a real fiscal reform, even if it is in September or October.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u78	In your introduction, Mr Calvo, you said that during your speech you would return to purchasing power as a social indicator. I haven't heard you do that yet. I have noted, however, that the indicators and principles you mentioned at the beginning of your speech are not correct. You said the efficacy rate continues to decrease. However, it is already rising and is expected to reach 70% in three years' time. That's a good expectation. You have also said that nothing is being done about the lowest incomes and that we must all respect that category. We have a great deal of respect for that. Again, the welfare envelope is paid in full. We increase the lowest benefits and also the living wage by 800 euros a year. We're really gonna bet on that. I hope that your statement will include the social indicator of purchasing power and that you will then refer to the correct figures and statistics. In short, purchasing power goes up as well as the level of effectiveness. You didn't say much, except for the redesign.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u79	I will not take that as an invitation to speak any longer and in greater detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u80	You're not doing well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u81	I note that Mr Van Rompuy is more critical of statements by the opposition than, for example, the Minister of Civil Service or in real life for the Minister of Finance. Either way, it's looking forward to the next blog. Apparently, that's a little more comfortable. We will certainly continue to have the debates, and I would even encourage you, Mrs Smaers, to continue to repeat, in particular, as a CD&V group, that people are improving and that it is a social government. The more you repeat that, the less credible that is and the less people believe it. I can only look forward to 2018 and 2019. I would like to conclude my speech, ladies and gentlemen, with an encouragement to put fiscal reform back on the agenda in September or October. I also refer to the recommendations adopted yesterday by the European Council, country by country. Some of these recommendations could actually come directly from our party programme. The European Commission wants the reduction to focus on the lowest incomes and middle incomes. In addition, taxation must be green. The company cars' system has to be kicked. I would therefore really like to invite you to take some of these recommendations to heart and, for example, to do something about commercial vehicles in September. Mr Van Overtveldt, corporate tax has just disappeared from the agenda, but you have committed yourself to proposing a simplified, fairer corporate tax more tailored to SMEs. We are still waiting for this, as we are waiting for a fair contribution from the greatest capabilities. All these measures can already be taken and should in any case be dealt with in the next year's budget. In any case, I hope that the system, which we have been establishing for two years, will not continue. We are talking about a system in which, on the one hand, everything that smells of just income and fairness keeps popping up again and again in reports from the Court of Auditors, because you are failing to do so, Minister of Finance, and, on the other hand, the measures in social security and the measures for whom it is already difficult to implement are frighteningly concrete. In this respect, the objectives will be met. It's time you stopped with that system and tried new things. I believe that our citizens and our country deserve that, especially in these turbulent times. Thank you for your continued attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure to meet you side by side during this plenary session. For happiness to be complete, Mrs Marghem would have had to be able to join you as she did in committee last week. His arrival immediately helped raise the pressure and create animation. Unfortunately, it is not there and we must be content with the more reasonable pleasure we have to be with you in examining the budgetary adjustment that you propose to us. Today is June 29, 2016. In exactly 18 months, it is likely that the majority will have voted on the 2018 budget. Eighteen months, therefore, is the time that separates us from the recovery that you announce mordicus from structural balance. Mr Piedboeuf recalled earlier, and you yourself, Madam Minister, have pointed out in committee, this structural balance by 2018 remains the alpha and omega of this government's fiscal policy. Honestly, in the debates in committee and in today's plenary, I did not hear that this adjustment would contain a single positive measure. The only motivation for the majority, finally, is this budgetary balance in 2018. There is nothing positive in the short term for the population. At least we can hope that the balance by 2018 is assured. This would be an achievement of this adjustment, unless positive measures were taken. Yet this achievement is far from assured. To such an extent that Mr. Van Rompuy left the doubt as to the deadline for recovery. Mr Piedboeuf speaks of 2018, you yourself, Madam Minister, after referring to all the options on the table, you have confirmed this horizon; Mr. Van Rompuy, more hesitant, suggests it could be 2019. It's a sign of concern. Mr. Van Rompuy said the majority was at the foot of the wall. And when we learn that the 2017 budget work will not start directly but will be postponed until the end of the summer, we think that the horse is poking in front of the obstacle. It is true that the obstacle is not thin, but in any case, this 2018 horizon seems far away. In any case, balance is not within reach. This postponement of the budget discussions, a government source, explains the need to stabilize the figures. This formula is a good admission because ultimately stabilising the figures is what the opposition asks for in each budget discussion, whether in the initial financial years or in the budgetary adjustments. We spend our time raising the elements of insecurity and instability. Finally, the person who spoke in the press tells us that it would be good to stabilize the figures, we would see more clearly. It is indeed a necessity, but not just because of Brexit. The Brexit has a good back! I believe that there are external factors that are difficult to control, the macroeconomic parameters on a global scale are still uncertain, but the main uncertainty resulting from this adjustment is not due to these external parameters, it is really due to the fiscal control that is yours and which seems to me to contain far too many approximations, of about uncertainty and insecurity. What characterizes your budgetary work is an accelerated obsolescence because the figures are barely in the budget documents that they are already announced as being outdated, with the need to correct them and stabilize them. It is this uncertainty that I would like to stress because it is it that prevents us from trusting you blindly. The only confidence you could have is, indeed, a blind trust, as does Mr. Piedboeuf, who has a little faith in this government. Quite frankly, on the basis of the figures, we do not see very well what could fuel this confidence. There is uncertainty first of all related to the balance. In committee, we had a long debate on the 2016 balance. The Court of Auditors pointed out in its report a lack of explanations in a variety of elements. You yourself, the minister, had to explain at length through the menu how the figures could be established. You explained to us that the expenditure related to the migration crisis was indeed included in the calculation of the balance, so we should not take into account this flexibility clause which you do not use. You finally admitted this mistake on page 94 of the general budget statement. Errors can be made, but what is more important is that at the start of this balance, the government's fiscal trajectory remains very uncertain. I want proof that Mr. Van Rompuy insists on the need to find 9 billion for 2018. The Minister of Finance had said in the press that it seemed a lot to him. There is therefore, within the majority itself, a divergence of opinion as to the establishment of the structural balance which must be filled and this is not such as to reassure observers. This uncertainty also stems from the techniques that you use, but these are techniques that are also heavy of meaning, heavy of impact in terms of transparency. The Court of Auditors, in its report, has more than once stressed the extent to which the work of the adjustment lacks transparency due in particular to two techniques which you use and which you abuse. This is, on the one hand, the technique of provisions and, on the other hand, the technique of underutilisation. This has been discussed at length in committee, but I want to say again how much you are inflating the provisions in your 2016 budget. As a result of the adjustment, you increase them by EUR 600 million, bringing them to only 4 budgetary allocations of EUR 1.6 billion. It is a sum in which there is a whole series of expenditures as varied as wage indexation, as if one could not clearly identify the items on which wage indexation will manifest itself. An all-out item in which communication expenditure will be included, as if we did not know very precisely from now on how to attribute the expenditure linked, in particular, to the communication campaigns initiated by the government to redo the coat of arms of the Belgian State, as if they could not be charged very clearly elsewhere than in a provision. It is also in these provisions that military expenditure will be included, the Court of Auditors reminds us that it is absolutely safe and certain. It is in these provisions that the consulting expenses associated with the redesignation are included. This is an abusive use of tote appropriations which objectively harms - not a criticism but a finding - transparency, since it is very clever to know what type of expenditure you are planning to spend 1.6 billion. Then, the second technique that undermines the exercise of truth that a budgetary adjustment should be, is this technique of underutilization, non-consumption. You have attached to the report your circular, the Minister of Budget, concerning this under-utilization. The circular speaks for itself. It speaks very clearly of a credit blockage. This is a blockage that you are assuming in the circular, but it would have to be borne in the eyes of this Parliament by defining very clearly the posts on which you are going to reduce the appropriations. We are not talking about a small amount, we are talking about almost 1 billion euros, 960 million if my memory is good. This means that the budget you are putting to the vote is not sincere because it includes appropriations that you know are not going to be used. It would be more appropriate, in my opinion, for the ministerial departments and members of this Assembly, as well as for all those interested in the state budget, to define where you are going to achieve these savings instead of relying on what you call a form of budgetary prudence. This is indeed a blockage of a very high amount, since the Court of Auditors' report estimated it at 7.4% of the compressible expenditure. In other words, when you extract from the budget all the incompressible expenses for which you have no room for manoeuvre, there is one volume left. And the 960 million block represents 7.4% of this volume. This is enormous, especially since some departments, quite rightly, are exempt from this blockage. We can only welcome this, but it means that the share that will be carried over to the other departments is only greater. These measures stem from a logic of austerity that is not assumed, but on the contrary well concealed. That is why I believe that this budget is not sincere and that it lacks transparency. This is a factor of uncertainty and insecurity. Another uncertainty factor I want to pin on is spending. I've already touched you a word with this blocking technique. I will not go back to the debate we have just had on the redesign. However, the annex to the report is interesting, since the note submitted to the Council of Ministers on this subject is attached. Objectively, she's overwhelming. It is referred to as a superposition of working groups, journey groups, program groups, steering groups, combined in a complicated organization chart that looks like a gas plant. On the other hand, there is not a single figure. I am not going to reactivate the controversy, but it is still difficult to believe that the 10 million expenses you are recording in provisions are indeed a productive investment that will generate the 100 million savings you expect on this operation. Frankly, you don't convince anyone, including yourself. And then, as far as the expenditure chapter is concerned, I would like to highlight another gap which seems to me to be detrimental to the transparency and control that you claim to have of your budget. I'm talking about expenditure monitoring. Remember, at the beginning of the legislature - it was Mr.Jamar, at the time, who carried this message, but you took it back to your account, minister - we were told that the expenses would be monitored very precisely and that by category of expenditure they would be subject to drastic reductions. Less than 4% from the outset of staff expenditure, and then minus 2% each year; minus 20% from operating expenditure, and then minus 2% each year; minus 22% from capital expenditure and then minus 3% each year; minus 20% from optional subsidies, and then minus 2% each year. At the time, we challenged the mechanical and a little blindness of this method of work, but either, you assumed it by pretending that so you would be able to achieve your objectives. Today, in 2016, two years later, I think it would be useful to take stock of this method. In committee, I asked for the figures resulting from this monitoring. The chairman of the committee suggested to me that they could be attached to the report, but they are not. I would therefore like to ask you again. On what volume of staff, operating, investment and voluntary subsidies have these reducing coefficients been applied, and with what effects? Are the figures announced in 2014 fully or partially valid? I think that there is a transparency exercise that needs to be done. I cannot imagine for a second that the Minister of Budget does not have in her cabinet, within her administration, all the figures related to the application of this monitoring. I think that in terms of transparency towards parliamentarians, it would be good if this information were shared with us. It would also give a little credit to your fiscal trajectory. This would give some credit to the budgetary rigour that you claim, which you claim to be incarnation in some way. In the absence of these figures, we are obliged to believe you by word of mouth. Understand that we are a little hesitant to do so, especially as the provisioning and blocking mechanisms complicate the exercise. Can you, Madam Minister, make all the transparency on expenditure monitoring and tell us, for 2015 and 2016, what savings you have been able to obtain under these reduction coefficients? I come to another, perhaps most important, uncertainty factor: it is the one that is linked to the revenue you are relying on to make your budgetary adjustment. First of all, I would like to point out that revenues are falling - if I am mistaken, you will correct - by 1.3 billion compared to the original budget. The Ways and Means budget must be based on a revenue reduction of $1.3 billion. This is not nothing and it cannot be said that it is indicative of a recovery in the economy, of job creation or of a reduction in the number of jobseekers; rather, it is a sign of a weakening of economic growth in particular. In itself, it is not reassuring! In the same vein, concerns about the random nature of your revenue have been highlighted by the Court of Auditors' menu. I am not going to go back to the debates that we have had in committee. In fact, you have brought some elements of an answer but, objectively, nothing convincing, whether it is: - on the reform of the Sicafi, - on tax regularisation, which has not yet been voted on, - on the transparency tax which the Court of Auditors itself says is not transparent, - on the recourse of intercommunals to the application of corporate tax, - on the application of reduced VAT for school buildings, which has not yet been approved by Europe, - on the Carat tax which you are announcing to us will be reviewed, since the original version does not hold the road, - on the tax on gambling and betting, about which there are many uncertainties. So many points mentioned and developed in the Court of Auditors' report, to which you do not provide any evidence that would make it clear that, of course, the expected revenue will be on hand. Worse still, Minister of Finance, you yourself have added an element of uncertainty, even if it is not a huge amount – we are talking about 34 million euros – with regard to the speculation tax, which has a very significant political content. Since New York, you have stated that it will certainly not yield the expected amount and that it would have been better to think twice before implementing it. This is a reflection that could be given to you on most of the positions I have just mentioned. You announced an evaluation in the summer that is opening. We hope that you will be able to come fairly quickly with amounts that are, this time, safe and certain. Another element of uncertainty which has not been mentioned at all by the Court of Auditors, because it is not based on these figures, concerns the reality of tax revenues since the beginning of this year. This reality does not strengthen your budget forecasts. In the first quadrimester, the overall revenue received by the federal government in 2016 is more than 10% lower than that received in 2015. It is an amount of 1.3 billion that is not found in the federal state coffers. The calculation was completed in April. Do you have any new figures on the basis of the May perceptions? It would be interesting to share them because if you have an element that allows us to give a little credit to your figures, we are eager to get to know them, but unfortunately I fear that this is not the case. I conclude with regard to this revenue chapter by referring to the perspective of this corporate tax reform. You confirmed that this was part of the structural reforms that the government wanted. My group can agree with this desire for reform because we know that corporate taxes are fairly unfair and unfair, but we are still asking for a closer look because if the reform that you are applying to ISOC is of the same water as the tax shift, we can fear that there will again be additional holes in your Ways and Means budget, which objectively, adjustment after adjustment, fiscal year after fiscal year, is becoming more and more like a gruyère. This is worrying because the uncertainty of revenues translates very quickly into an additional austerity of spending. I would like to believe that, ideologically, this does not bother the groups of the majority much, but I think it is quite worrying when we know the unmet needs in terms of security, defence, mobility, etc. In all sectors still dependent on the federal state, the unmet needs are significant. This prospect of increased austerity resulting from a form of revenue laxism is worrying. That, Mr. Chairman, is the few comments I wanted to make. Whether it's on the trajectory, whether it's on balances, spending or revenue, there's too much insecurity and instability in your figures for us to approve. And again, I didn't say anything about the stability program that wasn't approved, but the responsibility is collective, I can't make that a grievance to you. However, this is an additional element of insecurity. Nor did I say anything about the adoption of the programme law, which seems to pose some scheduling problems. However, the revenue in your budget, the figures in your adjustment, depends on it. This is still a factor of insecurity that is not linked to Brexit, but in the way I think you manage the federal state budget too lightly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u83	Mr President, thank you. You're great. Ladies and gentlemen, this budgetary adjustment is already overtaken by the facts. I will of course talk about it, but the stakes are already further. Today, we have learned – we have had confirmation – that the conclave scheduled for July 21, 2016 is being postponed to September. It will be necessary, on an unchanged path, to find between 8 and 10 billion euros depending on whether we follow the Federal Office of the Plan or the National Bank. I really invite you, in this context, to listen to what the Federal Office of the Plan said last week, like other economists, including the most classic ones from the IMF or the World Bank. He explained that this trajectory was untenable in a context where the economy was not working well. Seeking balance at all costs and too quickly via only a cut in public spending will continue to slow down the economy, to reach the most fragile through the savings you make in social security and still within the framework of health care at the level of this fiscal adjustment. This will reduce the confidence of our citizens and entrepreneurs and prevent essential investments in the economy of tomorrow and in the ecological transition of our economy that will create jobs of the future. This will undermine public services and all the tasks entrusted to them in terms of security, tax collection or health. I am telling you already; we expect you to stand firm in the hope of a change of course because, at any price, in an accelerated manner, to compress public spending in a context of weak growth is unrealistic and counterproductive in social, economic and environmental terms.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u84	Mr President, I just heard something shocking. How did we reach the trust of entrepreneurs? With all the measures taken in favour of enterprise development, cost reduction, etc. I want to hear anything, but I don't understand you at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u85	Don't you understand at all?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u86	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u87	So I invite you to consult all the indicators published, for example, by the Union of Middle Classes in relation to access to credit.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u88	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u89	I am also reading the Union of Middle Classes, Mr Clarinval, and I am talking about the Union of Middle Classes in relation to access to credit, to the fear of investing in a context...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u90	I see the comment of the Union of Middle Classes, I see the comment of the Walloon Union of Enterprises...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u91	Please. Mr Gilkinet has the floor and he alone.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u92	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u93	I won't take anything off, Mr. Borsus!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u94	Minister, you do not have the floor! You didn't ask for it! I repeat that Mr Gilkinet has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u95	Mr President, may I speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u96	If it is for added value, Mr Piedboeuf, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u97	It's obviously for added value! I'm talking about entrepreneurs and Mr Gilkinet is talking about indicators. I read the comments of the Walloon Union of Enterprises. I read the comments of the Union of Middle Classes. I see the reactions of the chambers of commerce. They are not indicators, but they are people who work, who say that the policy pursued by the government is in the right direction. We all pray for better indicators but this has nothing to do with the will of entrepreneurs and the development of their business.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u98	The same explain their fear of investing and their difficulties in accessing investment in an economic context where internal consumption by measures you have taken, in particular with regard to index skipping or exclusion from the benefit of our social security system, does not make it work optimally. Money's not circulating. We do not consume as we should. Our banks don't lend the money they need. It is also the UCM that tells entrepreneurs and individuals.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u99	Mr Piedboeuf, I will give you the floor that you are asking for, while specifying, as President Bracke did earlier, that we can ask ourselves in an infinite way. A debate has already taken place in committee. We're here to pick up the position of each of the groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u100	Thank you, Mr. President. I am not calling on Mr Gilkinet to slow down the debate. But how can we say at the same time that index jumps should not be made in order to restore the competitiveness of companies and that index jumps are detrimental to companies? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u101	The index jump is detrimental to the functioning of our economy and therefore to companies as well. They have an obvious benefit by limiting the cost of labour, that any economist would not deny and that I do not deny either. But I ask you not to deny that the index jump and other austerity measures that have been taken by your majority have an impact on consumer confidence and internal consumption, and therefore an indirect effect on the functioning of the economy. I refer you to the communication from the Federal Office of the Plan last week which warns your majority – and that is what I also want to do – against fiscal consolidation, which is austerity and which cannot work in an agonizing context, in terms of the functioning of the economy. I think we will get out of this, Mr. Piedboeuf, with a much more targeted investment policy than that of this government. Therefore, I invite you to work differently and more seriously on the method, the Minister of Budget, the Minister of Finance, and on the direction of measures from a social, environmental and economic point of view. As far as the method is concerned, let us recall this absolutely extraordinary episode, in which the government questioned the estimates of the Monitoring Committee. In one night, a few hundred million euros were found spectacularly by questioning the estimates of the budget specialists! Let us go back to the lack of details of a large number of measures which the Court of Auditors had pointed out, even if it were in terms chosen, in particular, Mr. Minister of Finance, overvalued revenue in respect of tax revenues. There had been little argument: the "diamant" tax which has not yet been approved by Europe and which will, no doubt, be replaced by something else; the revenue from the so-called Panama measures, which have been very ill-founded; the VAT on gambling which has been called into question by the Council of State, which announces recourse to the Constitutional Court, the tax regularization which has not yet been voted on and which raises other institutional problems; the revenue linked to the reform of the Sicafi, which the Court of Auditors announces to us will be, in large part, one shot and, perhaps, again, a boon; and, Madam Minister for the Budget, overestimated savings, including the redesign of the administration of the Federal Public Service. Another element of the method is really problematic: that of consultation with the Regions. To get a deal, it takes two. I can admit it. Nevertheless, in the head of the federal government, who chairs the Concerted Committee, there are far too many provocations and too little desire for dialogue with federated entities, particularly Francophones. Even though the wrongs are shared in this area, I would like once again to stress the need, in a federal state, for better collaboration and dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u102	Mr President, we have good advisers in the fora and I have just received the scheme communicated by the National Bank with a diagnosis and a finding of an increase in investments of 11%. We've been breaking all the records since 2012, since 2011. We're breaking every investment record with an increase in investment in our country. That is still an indication of good policy!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u103	I can, of course, refer you to other indicators, and I came to those indicators which are unwelcome. Of course, Mr. Piedboeuf, Mr. Van Rompuy, we can have a selective reading. Mr. Van Rompuy, earlier, referred to income figures from a macro-economic point of view, not in a redistributed way among citizens. The FPS Finance has extraordinary tools to measure the impact of the measures it takes by income decile, this is something that we have asked for in the tax shift and that we still do not have. But what we are seeing, in terms of the incomes of our fellow citizens, is an increasingly unequal distribution between those who are now in difficulties, sometimes even greater, and those who benefit from much larger incomes. Other indicators, Mr Piedboeuf, are now being published, and I, too, take my notes on the Sustainable Development Goals published today by the Federal Bureau of the Plan, which states that "Belgium will have to make additional efforts, especially in the area of social indicators, if it is to achieve the new sustainable development goals set by the UN by 2030". This is a final report from the Federal Planning Office. I can also take the statistics on child poverty, on the evolution of the number of income from social inclusion or bankruptcy. I don't think there's anything to rejoice about! The choice that has been made since the beginning of the legislature in terms of economics is a choice that hurts the most fragile. Again as part of this fiscal adjustment, the health care measures taken, Madam Minister, since you are here, are likely to affect the accessibility of care for our citizens, not to mention the on-site environment. To cite just two examples: the failure to implement resolutions adopted in this House on combating the illegal trade in exotic timber and, in the wake of the Paris climate agreements, the distribution of CO2 quotas among the regions. As I said, on the method, we cannot be satisfied with the way you work. I would like to add an element of method from our meeting with the Court of Auditors. The latter insists on the "filing of the final accounts for the previous budgetary year before filing the budget for the following year". The assessment of the tax measures and decisions that have been taken by your government is really problematic and we need to be clear, especially in relation to the revenue figures at the beginning of the year and the worrying decline in tax revenues. Both on the method and on the substance, we cannot support the budgetary year. I would like to tell you again how many alternatives to your proposals exist. With regard to the fight against tax fraud, the Panama Committee is at work, but it is not necessary to wait until December and its conclusions to begin to act. Undoubtedly, we will make new proposals, but every day brings new testimony about the lack of resources of all the links in the fight against tax fraud. The latest is a study by the Supreme Council of Justice on the state of Brussels' justice system in the fight against tax fraud. As part of the decisions to be taken at the end of the year for the initial budget for next year, we look forward to very specific commitments in this area. Mr. Minister of Finance, Mr. Minister of Economy, you are working on corporate tax reform, and there are things to be done with respect to transparency, the removal of tax niches that are costly for public finances and that create a boon effect. We must reorient this tax system to the benefit of small and medium-sized enterprises and, why not, move - a long-standing demand for personal taxes - towards globalisation. Mr Van Rompuy, you systematically caricature our tax proposals by accusing us of wanting to raise taxes. No, we want to distribute it differently, to put it on heads other than those who support it today, to reduce taxation for some - especially SMEs compared to multinationals - and to better distribute income. It is a tax shift that we propose with the globalization of income, to treat financial income in the same way as labour income. Similarly, in terms of social reforms, we want to better share working time between young people, who are far too many today to be unemployed, and older workers, some of whom are performing more difficult jobs physically or psychologically and cannot keep up with the pace of full-time work. We want to be able to reduce their working time so that they spend part-time and, during this abandoned time, are replaced by young workers. They should be able to stay in business longer, with all the benefits involved, but at a simply sustainable pace. Why not allow companies wishing to maintain their employment volumes to reduce their working time on a voluntary basis, with a specific focus on reducing social contributions? From an environmental point of view, we obviously want to contribute to progress towards energy self-sufficiency and thus fulfil our commitments under COP 21.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u104	Mr President, I would like to go back to information given by Mr Piedboeuf, which surprises me somewhat. Indeed, I have before me a table taken from the National Bank's economic projections released this month. We can see that, in terms of gross fixed capital formation of enterprises, a decrease in 2016, a slight increase in 2017, followed by a return in 2018 to the 2015 level. We speak in corrected volume. So, of course, we take into account the cyclical effects. Anyway, Mr. Piedboeuf, I don't see the increase you're talking about. I am keeping the picture at your disposal, but I am somewhat surprised.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u105	I just sent him to Mr. Laaouej, for his personal edification.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u106	I would like to exchange tables and ask the services to send a copy of the one I have in front of me, but it seems to me a little short to throw figures at the cantonade; 11% increase in investments, while the National Bank, from 2015 to 2018, rather evokes a stability of private investments. Public investment is declining.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u107	Madam Minister, I will end with this flexibility clause, which you have, for a moment, considered using with regard to exceptional expenditure on security, the fight against terrorism and the reception of refugees. It's finally a lead you're planning to pursue, but it's no longer part of the balance you're looking for. In your contacts with Europe, in particular with Mr Moscovici, I would like to encourage you to use this flexibility clause for other purposes, in order to free up the federal state's capacity in relation to the regions, to invest in the economy of the future. What we need today, in this context of weak growth, lack of project and socio-economic mobilization – and Mr Piedboeuf does not mind – are targeted investments. Investing is obviously spending, but for the future! Bad spending is what is useless, has no multiplier effect and does not trigger any economic mobilization. I believe that, in the context of future work, at European level, both in the dialogue between the States and the Commission on the budgets to be presented, and in the post-Brexit dialogue, there is a need for States, and Belgium must be, which advocate for productive investments, among which the search for less energy dependence is to be given priority. So, Mrs Wilmès, I encourage you to use these flexibility clauses for economic, social and environmental reasons. We will therefore be able to consider the next budgetary years in a more positive way than this adjustment which we will not vote on earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u108	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when discussing this budget adjustment, I could actually make it very easy for me to go back to my intervention when the original 2016 budget was discussed here in the hemisphere in December last year. I said at the time that, among other things, taxes on alcohol were overestimated. In the meantime, that has become the truth. You expected to collect 46 million additional excise duties in the first four months, but at the end of April you did not even get half of this amount, namely EUR 19 million. VAT revenues on spirits were also around 27 million below the previous year. I told you then that the increase in excise duties on alcohol would cause this sector to lose its turnover and their competitiveness with the surrounding countries would therefore deteriorate. Unfortunately, that is also the case. More and more purchases are being made across the border. If I warned you in December that the proceeds of a merely symbolic speculative tax were not only very impressive but also highly uncertain, it is now confirmed. Minister Van Overtveldt responded from New York, the previous speaker also referred to this. He admits that this speculative tax is indeed not a success. The Minister has always said that he is a cool lover of it, but he has introduced that speculative tax and until further notice he has missed a chance to abolish it. On the sugar tax, I said that it was very hard to sell that tax as a so-called health tax, but it was a health tax that had nothing to do with people's health, but everything to do with the unhealthy budget. It was either one or the other. If it is your intention to aim for avoidance, then it is not your intention to obtain higher tax revenues from it. The latter is clearly the case. Therefore, have the honesty to communicate in this way instead of pretending to be engaged in health policy. Yesterday or today, I read in the newspaper that you have achieved the objective of getting money out of that sugar tax. People have been paying that tax for six months. In practice, however, there is absolutely no such thing as avoidance. Ladies and gentlemen, a great deal has already been said here about a good report and about good results. I have some reservations about this. Government debt has only increased since it took office and stands at 106 % of GDP. I don't think that's such a good report. The European Commission pointed out in May 2016 that the budget deficit was even greater than last year. It's almost at the limit of 3 % with that -2,8 %. This is even worse than last year's -2.6 %. That's not really proof of a well-functioning policy, I guess. There is therefore an increasing public debt and an increasing budget deficit. The structural balance is also deteriorating. Revenue is lower and expenditure increases due to higher costs for asylum, migration and security, as the Supreme Court of Finance also points out. Mr Minister, these are all expenditure items linked to open border policy and to Islam terrorism. Those are all things we could have seen coming. I have heard some of my fellow Members here today say that the forecast for 2017 is that expenditure will then get better. I bet a lot of money they're pulling up on the words that the change is finally working. However, the High Council of Finance itself says that these forecasts for an improvement in 2017 are just there because these additional expenditures on asylum and migration are considered non-recurrent. I wonder if that's true. The additional expenditure will remain in any case in the coming years. If it is not at this level, the invoice will be passed on to the OCMWFs, among others. In December 2015, the cost of the migration crisis was also overly low. At that time, you described them as one-off expenditures, whereas in reality, of course, they have become more structural. I told you that in my intervention at the end of last year. If you do not take all this into account, then you can of course continue to count. The beautiful report cannot be based on the results of the tax shift either. The government exaggerates the impact, as it was in De Tijd last month. A study by SD Worx also shows that employers' contributions do not fall as much as the government claims. It is calculated that the decrease is about 1 to 4 percentage points depending on sector to sector. That is certainly a lot less than the promised 8 percentage points reduction. Meanwhile, the tax burden remains hugely high. Another surprise: the federalism of cooperation is not working either. Minister, you yourself denounced the fact that the regions are not making an equal effort in these tight budgetary times. The question is what are you going to do about it and whether you could not have predicted it. The problem goes beyond the regional budgets. The BBI has collected ten times more money from fraud in Flanders than in Wallonia. Five percent of the total revenue comes from Wallonia. If you are asked questions about this, you will reply in De Tijd that this great difference must not give rise to a Community riot. The Community Omerta is also still being honoured. When one reads such things, the good man knows that there is no change in policy. I have heard all kinds of figures on economic growth. Mr Dedecker spoke mainly about the international context. However, we must note that economic growth is lower than in the Netherlands and Germany, all of which are in the same international context. You don't always have to keep that umbrella open, especially if it's not right. Mr Van Rompuy referred to the Brexit and its consequences. That is not yet the case with this budgetary adjustment. I immediately heard the Prime Minister declare that the Brexit invoice should not be transferred to this country. Even before the Brexit was a fact, Minister Peeters was together with a whole team to calculate the possible costs. I must say that I do not think it is proper just to communicate about the possible costs, while one does not communicate about other billions of costs and even refuses to calculate them. Why, for example, is the huge cost of asylum and migration policy not communicated in the same way? The European Union determines it and this government does it well, but the taxpayer pays for it. Now it's being kept out of the budget. That is another typical trick that is also used for the cost of safety. However, it is not because it is not in a budget that the invoice should not be paid in the end. Theoretical numeral fetishism as a cover-up machine cannot be the intention. Why is there no equally strong communication about billions of aid to Greece, or the billions needed to keep the euro alive artificially? The taxpayers must also cough up these pennies. The European Union, through its failing policy on asylum and the euro, is not only making the national budgets go further in red, but is adding a very high amount of money to that European Union itself, a gift to the European Union for bad policies, as it were.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u109	Mrs Pas, what is the position of the Flemish Interest? Do you think the Brexit is a good thing? Do you think a vlexit is necessary? Your chairman is behind the Brexit and the Vlexit. In fact, we have to leave the European Union and the euro, because you do not accept the conditions. What is your position on the matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u110	Our position is very clear and we are also the only party to take a different view than everything else.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u111	Uit of euro?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u112	The euro is unsustainable. By stepping out of the euro, as many economists say, we can aim for a smaller currency union in which the markets are at least similar. There are many economists who speak of a "euro' and a "euro'. All the more reason to split up this country quickly, so that Flanders can at least join the markets à la Germany, to which we belong, and with a northern euro. As far as your question on Brexit is concerned, this is not at all part of these discussions on budgetary adjustment, but I would very much like to have that debate. What if this European Union does not draw the right conclusions when a country decides on the direction the European Union is going to take? This is something that we don't even like! Adjust the Constitution so that a referendum can be held on this issue. Ask for the opinion of the people and also take into account the opinion of that people. If the British are right to say that they do not need Merkel's Wir-schaffen policy, that they do not need to put billions into bottomless wells and do not need to maintain Belgium at large, with all the consequences, then that must indeed be honoured. If the European Union does not learn the lesson that it must be organised in another way, when I hear the Verhofstadts of this world moving forward, towards even more European superstate, towards even more integration towards the European superstate, then I say that one is much better off with a vlexit, if one does not draw the lessons to be learned from the Brexit. If that is an answer to your question, I can now return to my speech on the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u113	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u114	What is not being communicated, when we talk about the possible costs of Brexit, are the costs with which the European Union places us, and I am only talking about the money that the European Union receives annually from this country in order to maintain its own operation. This budget states that Belgium will give EUR 3 209 880 000 to the European Union to cover its needs for 2016. That is the full amount you need to get your 2017 budget in order. This is for comparison. In my view, this is a contribution which can be reduced, especially since there are many agencies in the European Union that do not use up their resources each year and transfer them to the next year. As long as that money does not all come back to the Member States, with a key, it is insane to keep depositing. If you make lists about the cost of one, please include at least the lists fairly with the cost of the other. Finally, I would like to mention the additional costs that you have included in this budget adjustment. There are members of a government party, but unfortunately they are absent today, who write books about the measure of the monarchy. However, this budgetary adjustment shows that the same government party is the best buddies with that monarchy. Apparently, not everyone lives above his standards, because I see that apparently there is still room to give a well-defined family a decent raise. This applies both to King Filip and King Albert, Astrid and Laurent. They're all getting a raise. I see in the budgetary adjustment that King Filip will receive an additional EUR 39 000 in the Civil List in order to be able to carry out his job. It is indeed not necessary for his numerous private trips. After all, it is still possible to operate at the State's expense. The figures I received from Minister Vandeput for 2015 showed that on average every two weeks a flight of 5 500 euros. When, under similar saving conditions at our northern neighbours in 2015, the king received a similar premium, a so-called index storage of EUR 30 000, that king was right to believe that everyone should contribute to the savings. He refused that raise. Of course, our king doesn't. So, ladies and gentlemen, you would have done better if you had not included such increases in your budget adjustment. Mrs Uyttersprot asked me to be brief. So I'm going straight to my conclusion. When I look at the 2016 budget, including the current budget adjustment, I see a lot of similarities with the budgets of Di Rupo and purple. It is a major patchwork and a burden which, in spite of everything, remains enormous. The tax shift is much smaller for employees and employers than expected. In order to patch things up, there are classic tricks: keeping the so-called one-off items out of the budget, introducing additional taxes faster, even more excise duties on diesel and the fight against the tax fraud that will be additional. These are all things that we hear come back every time and every year. Of course, this does not address the major problems. Meanwhile, major expenditure continues to increase, such as the costs of asylum and migration as well as transfers. These traditional payments do not yet show the strength of change. I hope that these changes in your 2017 budget, which you will begin next summer, will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u115	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I hear colleagues from the majority! Mr Van Rompuy, who tells us that there will still be billions to save on the following years; Mr Piedboeuf tells us "the work of budgetary austerity is not over!"; And Mr. Dedecker, "We see the end of the tunnel." We see him, but we're not there! Yes, it does refer us, Mr. Van Rompuy, to this discussion of the tunnel. Because someone who is now 30-35 years old was born in the Wilfried Martens Tunnel. And he never got out of it, he's still in the tunnel today, he's still walking there. That is the situation of the vast majority of the population. Except for the richest 1%. They've been out of the tunnel for a long time, walking over the tunnel. There is 99 per cent in the tunnel, and then there is 1 per cent above the tunnel. That's the situation. A situation which unfortunately worsens year by year. I am not going to recall here the work of an economist like Piketty saying that indeed we are today in an annuitant economy. The richer 1% have become more and more, have more and more, and the increase in their assets, the profitability of their capital changes faster than economic growth. This means that, in this dynamic, the rich are naturally richer, always richer. Obviously at the expense of others. And this fiscal year reflects this trend quite well, as we see that we are not getting out of the tunnel. Why? Because we have a government that combines two things. On the one hand, this government continues to impose increasing austerity and, on the other hand, there is a lack of budgetary rigour. And that's crazy. We have both austerity and a lack of budgetary rigour, this is the government's policy. The National Bank has reported this, the Federal Office of the Plan also: there is an effort of 8 to 9 billion euros. And what is quite surprising is that we hear the National Bank say that thanks to the policy of this government we are on the right track... and so we will have to save 8 to 9 billion! When I hear that, I think maybe it's better to try the wrong way. That's pretty disturbing. The National Bank tells us that the economic forecasts for employment are good. First, the National Bank's past forecasts are not without problems. And above all, if we ever see an improvement, it will be due to the effect of the economic situation rather than to the government's policy. The Federal Bureau of the Plan states that Belgian wage growth will remain below inflation in the years to come. Foreign wages are the driving force behind growth. In Belgium, wages are lower. Wage growth is lower than inflation. If all countries functioned like Belgium, we would have no increase in employment. Finally, we must thank the German workers who managed to remove wage increases. I come to the famous structural balance which is the bible of this government, the bible of austerity policies followed by this government. If we look at the evolution of this structural balance, what the government announces to us every year and what it actually does, we see a big lag. Let's take this year 2016. Initially, when the government established itself in 2014, he told us that in 2016, the structural balance would be -0.7%. Then the following year, in 2015, in the general statement of the 2016 budget, he said that it would not be -0.7% but that it would be - 1.2%. [[And now, in the adjustment we are discussing for 2016, we are at - 1.7%, i.e. lower than what was originally planned for 2015, by the government.]] Every time the government moves forward, six months or one year of fiscal trajectory, the balance deepens. So here is a government that imposes both austerity and a lack of budgetary rigour. In terms of tax revenues, however, let us note that this liberal right-wing government has, in 2016, 3 billion more revenues than in 2015. We're used to this anti-fiscal speech at the MR saying we're going to lower taxes. But when you look at all the tax revenues, you see 3 billion more. Who pays these additional tax revenues? Certainly not those who are part of the 1%, who walk over the tunnel, but rather the 99% who have been walking in the tunnel for 30 or 35 years. In order to facilitate the fiscal year, the government is inventing tax measures or reinterpreting returns on tax measures, re-evaluating estimates, contrary to those of the bodies responsible for setting budgetary criteria, such as the Monitoring Committee. Some examples. The tax regularisation system is maintained at EUR 250 million despite the delay. We're wondering how we're gonna do it. And what about the famous tax on speculation! The Minister of Finance had invented a symbol tax for us. Today, he tells us that the symbol disappears. Even the little rikiki of speculation tax that we were about to pass away. The minister tells us that this may not bring anything back at all. This may even cost more because we're going to lose the stock exchange tax. Even the symbol of capital taxation disappears! Let's say Mr. Minister's naked! Excuse me, minister, but even if the symbol falls, we wonder what's left of you! Then come the Panama measurements that I call the Panama "measures". It's both a lot and a little. This is far too much because we know that the revenue you expect this year, 67 million, is an impractical and unrealistic estimate. And in the long run, that's ridiculous! We have billions of euros in tax havens. We have 20 billion euros of budget loss per year because of tax fraud and you, you come with measures that must bring back 67 million euros. Of course it's nothing. It's a drop of water and it finally shows your little ambition in the fight against tax fraud. This same ambition can be found in measures such as the contribution of the diamond sector. There is no response from the European Commission, but an amount is included in this budget. We could also talk about non-tax revenues: Doel 1 and 2 conventions that will bring an astronomical amount of 20 million euros, so low that the recipe is uncertain! The European Commission could indeed consider that there is State aid. So we have a recipe that is uncertain and ridiculous by its amount and, in fact, uncertain because it is ridiculous by its amount. It is because you take such a low yield that it is uncertain because there is a risk of state aid. Unfortunately, there are also all the attacks, and they are serious, against the population, such as the particularly strong social security attacks in this budget. As much as we have illusory, misleading tax revenues, calculated no matter how, so much the attacks, the 450 million euros savings in social security, are real. The same applies to attacks on public services. Colleagues have already spoken of the famous redesign where there was a rather interesting ping-pong game between the Minister of Budget and the Minister of Public Service. It was really a nice game where when you ask for precise figures, apart from what it's going to cost in consulting fees, the minister refers to the minister and vice versa. We didn't get any money. The only amount Mr Vandeput can give us is that of replacing the F-16s. Now we know we're going to have a cost of EUR 15 billion over the years to come. But as the government handed this budget over to after the legislature, it's easy! It would be interesting to integrate it into the structural budgetary effort that is being made.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u116	In addition to the discussion that we can have about the reality of things, unfortunately I think, unlike opposition colleagues, that there is a real fiscal economy exercise through this redesign which will consist of new cuts in public services. Today, they're swelling. It is enough to watch a television newspaper to realize that today, all sectors of the public service can no longer do so. It is rare for me to quote the FEB, but today even the FEB says that Belgium is the last of the class in terms of infrastructure investment. The bosses of the FEB are a little ungrateful. I'll give it to you. In fact, for years, they've been saying to the government, "Go ahead, cut into the public services! Cut that fat! Go ahead, don't hesitate! Make billions of savings!" And then, once you respond to the FEB injunctions, as a right-wing government does, they tell you: "Oh, look, we're the last of the class in terms of infrastructure investment!" The bosses are of incredible ingratitude. You should stop listening to them blindly. Look what's happening to you! Finally, in conclusion, I will quote the words of our distinguished colleague Van Rompuy, who said, as Margaret Thatcher said in the 1980s: "TINA, there is no alternative". There is no other thing to do than cuts, but austerity, austerity, austerity. We've been in the tunnel for 35 years, since the days of Martens and Dehaene. And we're still going to stay in the tunnel for years because the more we advance in these fiscal years, the more the structural balance goes down. Every year, it's lower. Mr Van Rompuy and other colleagues from the right-wing government, I say to you: yes, there is an alternative. It's going to target those above the tunnel. As Piketty points out, these are those who today have a fortune that continues to rise, this famous 1%. If they are not taxed, their share will continue to increase. They represent 1% but already have as much as 60% of the poorest in Belgium: 420 billion euros of fortune in Belgium. In their 420 billion fortunes, is there no way to get a few billion, Mr Van Rompuy, Minister? No? Is that so taboo? There are also all the gifts to multinationals that might one day have to be called into question. Another example today is the famous issue of the excess profit rules that the Minister of Finance defends. It even goes against the position of the European Union. Do you realize? We have to do it! The European Union has imposed austerity on us for years, but for once it goes in the opposite direction, we are opposed to it. Of the 35 multinationals that have benefited from these excess profit rules, there is Dow Corning, a chemical company that has a factory close to my home in Seneffe. Today, we learn that it will eliminate jobs, while it has benefited from this aberrant tax system. The argument that tax gifts lead to employment is contradicted. Tax gifts lead to redundancies, because there will be redundancies in this company which is in no way in deficit. But simply, through restructuring, they decided to increase the profits, which are already substantial, but still insufficient. That's your policy. This may be a surprise, but we will not be able to support this budgetary adjustment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u117	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I note that the measures you are advocating are in the right direction. But the reforms you are undertaking are not yet deep enough. I want proof of the first job free of social security charges for the employer. This measure generates employment. The figures show that 65 000 new jobs have been created. So, why stop at the first job? The People's Party, moreover, had in its programme this proposal to allow companies three new jobs. So, if I calculate correctly, it would have made almost 200,000 new jobs. On the other hand, I note that not all measures are antisocial. There is an unfortunate tendency to interpret them unfavorably. But the purchasing power of citizens does not diminish, on the contrary. The tax shift has had its effect despite the increase in VAT on electricity or the index jump which was an inadequate measure for me. On the other hand, I understand that we have amortized the crisis with our well-provided public services. I can't condone him. You have amortized unemployment figures by creating public jobs, but this has had no impact on growth in the medium and a fortiori, in the long term. On the contrary, you should deepen the structural economies, which should prevent you from poaching in the pockets of workers and social beneficiaries. We need another tax system. It is not normal for large companies to pay very few taxes compared to others, who pay too much. This disparity inevitably hinders recovery. Society has evolved and is changing from day to day. We must therefore adapt our policy to this perpetual development. To return to the savings and on the basis of the observations of the Court of Auditors, I note that the debt rate does not fall. This is proof that appropriate reform is needed. Moreover, by pursuing parallel policies that are too lax, such as immigration, where we do not control much, and even if Mr Franken tries to correct the situation, our expenditure is still too high: more than a billion for the migration crisis and terrorism. It's huge! In 2015, this represents 0.03% of GDP and 0.26% in 2016. The Court of Auditors also notes that the presentation of expenditure for this item is not very clear. On another issue, social dumping, which deprives us of a lot of revenue, it is difficult for you to pursue a coherent policy in this area. What jobs have been lost in the construction sector? I am aware that a budget and, by the force of things, a fiscal adjustment is an ambition of the government and that many parameters may be uncertain, but if you were to pursue a truly ambitious policy, you would have an ambitious budget and adjustment. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I will abstain from this vote because I expect to see your real ambitions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u118	Mr President, the report of the Monitoring Committee incorporated the update of revenue and expenditure on the basis of the new macroeconomic parameters which themselves emerged from the February economic budget. As usual, 153 million technical corrections are taken into account. Following these corrections, measures totalling EUR 1.6 billion were decided. I'm not going to go back to the menu because we talked about it at length together. When we take into account the most recent technical corrections and transition parameters that ensure the transition from the nominal balance to the structural balance, we can deduce that the balance of Entity I is expected to reach 1.6% in 2016, which corresponds to an improvement in this structural balance from year to year of 0.6% of GDP. This result also enables European requirements to be met in terms of improving the structural balance while integrating the expenditure associated with the major challenges we face, the asylum crisis and the expenditure related to the fight against terrorism and radicalism. I had the opportunity to explain in committee that all these expenses were well integrated into the balances, both the nominal balance and both the structural balance, and this explanation was corroborated by the Court of Auditors' statement that these expenses are part of the balances. The flexibility clause is something else. The flexibility clause will intervene if there is a deviation from the budget path. It will intervene in the analysis, in the assessment that the European Commission will make of this potential deviation. It is therefore an ex post analysis, after the fact, after expenditure, which is done by the European Commission on our budgetary path. The call for the flexibility clause if necessary does not prevent the full inclusion of these expenses in the balances. This should be clear to everyone. The Court of Auditors' report was one of the starting points of our discussion in committee. The role of the Court of Auditors is to take a critical look at expenditure and revenue and at the new measures affecting them. This is, and always is, a classic and recurrent exercise and the recommendations made should be seen as beacons to help the government implement these measures and achieve them objectively. The Court of Auditors has indeed made comments, but it has also indicated that it is becoming increasingly well informed, allowing it to make more specialised comments. I certainly do not want to put the criticism aside, but I would also like to underline the words of the representatives of the Court of Auditors, who said during their hearings in committee that there were clearly less inadequate appropriations than usual and that no serious problem was identified. This demonstrates the seriousness of the government's approach. As I pointed out in committee two weeks ago, I remember that in future we will have to give Parliament more detailed explanations of new and complex concepts in order to avoid misunderstandings with the Court of Auditors and Parliament. I am thinking in particular of the use of the flexibility instrument, because we note that there are still difficulties in understanding this, but also the transition between the nominal and the structural balance. In that perspective, I would like to say that we have used the same methodology as usual and as in previous years, and it is the first time that the Court of Auditors has made a comment on the difficulties for Members to understand this. We accept that and next time we will give a better explanation of the passage on the nominal and structural balance, but I repeat that we have used the same methodology as usual. I have also heard some of you refer to the problem, in their view, of the lack of transparency that would result from the inclusion of provisions in the budget or blockages made through underutilization. I have already had the opportunity to respond clearly to these two remarks, but that will not prevent me from answering you again. I would remind you that underutilization is lower than in 2015. In that year, an underutilisation of 960 million had been found, while the Court of Auditors, at the time of the initial 2015 exercise, had pointed out what it considered to be a priori potential credit deficiencies. On the other hand, this year it also points to some overestimations of expenditure. This brings me to the way in which under-utilization is constituted. There is indeed a natural under-utilization because one cannot spend 100% of the budgets, for several reasons: delays in delivery contracts, cancellation of public contracts. And it is true that this natural under-use comes in addition to the under-use decided by the government, embodied in administrative blockages of credit. I would point out here that the use of blockages is not new since it has been used under other governments. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that these blockages are subject to a few exceptions in order to be consistent with the policy pursued by the government. They are clearly stated in the circular. There's Justice, OCAM, Crisis Center. You must also know that the departments themselves were able to propose a breakdown of the blockages on their own budgets, taking into account the priorities they had set themselves. Moreover, by definition, a blockage can be lifted quickly in the event of a problem. With regard to transparency on blockages, Mr Dispa himself referred to the circular annexed to the committee's report. In addition, the Parliament has all the blockages that have been submitted to agreement. As far as the provisions are concerned, in my view, they meet the criteria referred to by the Court of Auditors. Provisions are, in fact, appropriations that are set aside for a specific purpose, but the final allocation is not known. Thus, within the framework of asylum, there was indeed still a significant uncertainty about the needs of FEDASIL in the coming months, depending on the evolution of migration flows, but also on the needs of the SPP Social Integration, which will encounter the first effects of asylum seekers who arrived in 2015. In the case of asylum in particular, the increase in the appropriation through the provision also allowed the department to quickly have the means to implement projects that fit within the priorities set, without waiting for the appropriations to be adjusted in a budgetary adjustment. This same logic also applies to the provision of terrorism and radicalism in the sense that projects are approved as they progress. As far as the control of these expenditure is concerned, their use is subject to strict criteria of budgetary surveillance, whether by the Finance Inspectorate or myself and in any event, their use is limited to what they have been constituted for. In addition, credits are granted only when the amount of the expenditure is certain. This adds to the strict control of expenditure. As regards visibility and access to information by parliamentarians, I would point out that all distribution orders are published in the Belgian Monitor, which is available everywhere. Mr. Dispa had a specific request for reporting. I guess it's of interest to others too, isn't it, Mr. Laaouej? The Act of 22 May 2003 states: "The Minister for Budgets shall periodically transmit to the House of Representatives and the Court of Auditors the statement of appropriations, as well as their allocation by programme and by basic allocation". This exercise is conducted quarterly and the next report will be sent to the House in mid-July. Finally, there was one question on the general accounts. The Court of Auditors had indeed explained that, the earlier the accounts of the previous year were received, the easier it was to monitor budgetary trajectories and that it also contributed to the objective of transparency which parliamentarians wanted. I would remind you that, as soon as the 2008 General Account was approved, in a few months, we cleared the backlog by approving the 2008 to 2013 accounts on 19 November 2015. The 2014 general account was voted on 25 February and we sent the 2015 account to the Court of Auditors on 22 April. This shows a steady improvement in deadlines. We had until June 30 to send the document, we did it on April 22. We are waiting for the result in order to be able to put it to the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u119	The Minister for the Budget has painted the general picture of the budget and has also addressed a number of aspects relating to expenditure. It goes without saying that we have to do budgetary control and budget layout in a bit of special international circumstances, but I will talk about this briefly later. Questions were asked about the revenue items. As regards VAT on electricity and, more specifically, the research carried out by the ISI on abuses, the report of 24 February this year on the ISI surveys shows that the amounts of VAT which may be recoverable from the large and medium-sized distributors amount to EUR 41.5 million instead of the EUR 250 million foreseen during the initial preparation of the budget. The files are being processed with the ISI and follow the process set out in the application procedures. As regards regularisation, as was agreed here last week, there is an opinion on the substance of the Council of State. We are also working on cooperation agreements, specifically with Flanders. We hope that this will be done with Wallonia and Brussels as well. Also, within the FPS Finance, ten additional staff are planned for the Contact Point Regularisations at the Prior Decisions Service through internal mobility. Further preparations, including on ICT, are under way. Finally, with regard to regularization, I would like to comment on the amounts involved. In 2015, the Regul finally raised 78 million instead of the 184 million registered at the October review. In 2016, the proceeds of the new regulatory legislation were registered at 250 million. So that's 172 million, 250 minus 78, extra compared to 2015. This explains the different amounts circulating around the regularisation process today. As far as the Cayman tax is concerned, it should certainly not be forgotten that a significant proportion of the revenue involved in the legal arrangements endorsed by the Cayman tax is movable income from shares, accounts and the like. This is in principle subject to withholding tax. With regard to the overall yield of the Cayman tax, in order not to complicate the tax return excessively, we have not introduced any additional codes. Without these additional codes, it is effectively more difficult to estimate the specific yield of the caiman tax. We will also regularly evaluate the caiman tax, as is the case with a new tax. If it turns out that escape routes exist, we will of course not hesitate to close them as soon as possible. For ISOC on intercommunals, these are mainly difficulties in terms of reservations, which have prompted some intercommunals to address the Constitutional Court. In the meantime, an amendment has solved most of the problems. The original 2014 law, which in some cases excluded intercommunals from the tax of legal persons, aroused a lot of resistance, because several issues had not yet been resolved. The 2015 Act addressed these issues, including the issue of reserves and built-up provisions. This should remove the objections of several intercommunals and also convince the court to consider the proceedings they have instituted. With regard to the new tax measures, there was also a discussion about the real estate vehicles. In this respect, we expect a recurrent inflow of EUR 250 million each year. It is true that the composition of these 250 million euros differs in the short term and in the period in which the vehicles are at cruising speed. The Court of Auditors' comment on the real estate vehicles is about the one-off conversion of an existing stock to projects to the new statute in 2016 and part in 2017, which in 2016 will once pay 116 million euros of exit tax and once again 50 million euros of exit tax in 2017. From 2018 onwards, it is about exit taxes on the 2 billion euros of new projects that we expect to be implemented annually. One has the recurrent exit tax on those 2 billion euros of new projects, each year, and a one-off effect of the exit tax on the existing stock that was introduced in 2016 and part in 2017. The tax regime for the CFPF has been aligned on the existing tax regime for the GVV. There is therefore no new tax regime in place. Then I come to the Panamanian measures. I see Mr Calvo is gone. It is true that there are a dozen measures, some of which cannot possibly be estimated from the budget. Nevertheless, these measures will certainly have an impact. It is for caution's sake that we have finally entered gross EUR 67.8 million, net EUR 65 million of income from these measures. As regards the Diamant tax, the "diamant" scheme was laid down in the programme law of 10 August 2015. To the extent that the "diamond" scheme is sector-specific, the entry into force of the scheme has been postponed until confirmation by the European Commission that the scheme does not constitute inadmissible State aid. Although the Government remains of the view that the "diamond" scheme, as provided for by the Programme Law of 10 August 2015, does not constitute incompatible State aid and adequately addresses the control problems identified, a limited adaptation has been made to the scheme and presented to the European Commission following discussions with the Commission. With this adjustment, the scheme is even more specific, even more focused on a solution to the particular problems in the monitoring and recovery of stocks, which is relevant in the context of the finding that this measure would not constitute irreconcilable State aid. I will then come to the VAT and bet and the amount of EUR 39 million. Contrary to what the Court of Auditors is asking, there is indeed a clear legal justification. Firstly, the principle of fiscal neutrality is respected. The available data on the gambling sector suggest that consumers using online gambling and money games make up a very different audience than those doing it offline and, in other words, opt for the physical gambling and money games. For example, 88 percent of the traditional audience involved in gambling and money would never play online. The fact that the online market and the physical market are previously separate markets is also reflected in several opinions, including from the Belgian and French competition authorities. This market segregation results, inter alia, directly from the different circumstances in which those services are provided. Online services can be consumed in particular 24 hours a day, which is obviously not the case for offline services. As far as the sharing economy is concerned, the government's proposal will bring income to the surface that was not previously taxed. Indeed, revenues from limited by-activity are often not reported. There is also a need to maximise costs, so that net income falls below the limit for social security contributions to be self-employed in the secondary occupation. Witness the various investigations and corrections, specifically in the sector of services offered via online platforms. Moreover, the complexity of the regulation often led taxpayers to shift behind the argument that they did not know whether and in what way these revenues should be declared. However, under the new system, the tax authority is informed of the nature and size of the additional activity of a taxable person through the fact sheet obligation. The speculative tax is currently being analysed, an analysis that will be discussed immediately within the government. The only thing I have said about this so far is that, on the basis of various informal contacts with the sector, it appears that the budgetary objectives may not be met. More importantly, there is a negative impact on, for example, the stock market tax. I believe it is my responsibility as Minister of Finance to follow up on such developments and to make alternative or corrective proposals in good time. Finally, I have a comment on the general framework in which we find ourselves today and its impact on revenue. As a result of the higher than expected growth in the fourth quarter of 2015, both the Planning Bureau and the National Bank have not recently adjusted the growth forecast for 2016. Indeed, this higher growth in the fourth quarter of 2015 has a beneficial effect on annual growth for 2016, which for the time being compensates or neutralizes the negative impact of, for example, terrorist attacks on the economic climate. However, in its latest prognosis, the National Bank makes it very explicit that the months-long threat of terror and the very unfortunate attacks of 22 March will not miss their effect. They will take their toll. For this purpose, the National Bank puts forward a minimum of 0.1 % of GDP, which is EUR 400 or 500 million. In particular, the Brussels catering sector suffers from the clearly decreasing influx of foreign tourists and business travellers. Tourism revenues in general have fallen sharply. We also see this very clearly in the turnover figures, in the VAT returns of the catering industry, in particular in the Brussels Region. There is no contradiction between higher than expected economic growth... The fact that growth for 2016 is left unchanged has everything to do with the last quarter of 2015. There are economic circumstances, and I would like to say nothing about the Brexit, which unfortunately mean that we have to be less optimistic about the environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u120	Mr President, I would like to congratulate my colleagues Laaouej and Carcaci on staying in session! The opposition has gone up to ask many questions and it is not there to listen to the answers! Mr. Vanvelthoven wasn't here! Mr. Calvo has just arrived! MM. Gilkinet and Van Hees were absent! Given the seriousness of the ministers and the precise answers given, beyond the elucubrations of the billionaires of Mr. Van Hees, I wanted to greet those who stayed in session.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u121	Mr Piedboeuf, I would suggest that you be better informed before making such comments. Why did the President of the Chamber and various members of the opposition just go out there?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u122	Because they're fighting. Because the opposition is not united because the opposition is divided.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u123	Mr. Piedboeuf, do you know why? Because the majority has a problem with the tax programme law. That bill will not be approved if the opposition does not sign up and does not consider what should happen in the next 24 hours. You dare to provoke now, asking where the opposition was and why its banks were empty. Those banks were empty because we were sitting with the President of the Chamber to solve the problem of the majority. That's why the banks were empty.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u124	Although I am very pleased that Mr Laaouej is present - the problem is not there - I think you should show much more humility. If we were to clearly denounce the number of times in committee, for example, when the majority are not in numbers to support this government, we would each have very important time spaces in plenary sessions. Then a little modesty, please!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u125	He won't have escaped from anyone that I'm here indeed. I thank the Ministers for the answers they have given us. But it's missing the essentials. Many of us have asked if you confirm the postponement of the budgetary conclave for the 2017 budget. We have a right to know. We were also many to tell you that Brexit had a good back and that it did not justify that at least you could tell us what the broad lines were for you to find the 8 to 9 billion that the National Bank and the Office of the Plan indicate to you as structural efforts to achieve balance in 2018. We need answers and it seems to me right to ask you for further details on your future schedule. Another aspect for which I do not have an answer is the subsidence of tax revenues as identified in the first quarter of 2016, compared to revenue developments in the same period in 2015. We have a dramatic decrease of more than one billion euros. You're not talking about it. This fills your 2016 budget; while this decrease should ideally already be incorporated into your adjustment, but I can understand that this may be difficult to do, but that should also lead you to tell us how you are going to solve this problem. If you have up-to-date figures - this is a legitimate question from Mr Dispa - do you have any revenue recorded at the end of May 2016? You should have them and watch if the bill of 8 to 9 billion does not actually increase by an extra billion. As far as the surplus is concerned, the question has been asked, so I repeat it. We are absolutely not convinced. What characterizes your budget, from the point of view of revenue, is uncertainty. I said it. There is uncertainty that weighs on about a billion euros. The Court of Auditors said so. We say it again. Your answers are not satisfactory. They're not reassuring. On the expenditure side, I have not heard any further details about the redesign. We're still in the dark. It will still have to be clear in the government, at some point, who Mrs Wilmès or Mr Vandeput is going to give us answers. It's starting to work! It is 100 million euros now, you expect from this item 650 million euros savings by 2018. It would be a matter of informing Parliament properly. For now, it's the nebula. For the rest, you explain to us that under-use should not be seen as blocking. It's a blockage! You set a savings target for all departments that will add to the linear savings that have already been recorded. I do not see what, today, brings new elements in relation to this observation. We're not convinced. I'm not going to repeat the debate. In any case, on two fundamental points, namely the development of tax revenues and the budgetary timetable for the 2017 budget, I would like to ask the President for clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u126	Two small questions were asked by Mr Laaouej and were not answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u127	Mr President, with regard to the increase in underutilisation, as my colleague pointed out, the Court of Auditors has made it very clear that there are a number of overestimates in the budget which have not been taken into account, including those relating to Asylum and Migration. As always with a budget, there are windfalls and setbacks. I think, in this case, that they almost compensate each other, if I understand the Court of Auditors correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u128	That's not my question. I think that my question has been very well understood by Mrs Wilmès, and that what the government calls "under-use" is actually a blockage. It's an economy. But that being the case, I can understand that the government does not want to respond more. I had two questions. The first concerns the development of tax revenues. The deterioration in revenues in the first quarter of 2016 suggests a difference of 1 billion compared to last year. Secondly, the budgetary timetable. Do you confirm that there will be no budget conclave for the 2017 budget before the holidays? These are two very simple questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u129	As far as the budgetary timetable is concerned, I repeat that the only guideline that counts is 15 October. I said it, I say it again. It was also indicated that the Government would decide within it the order of business. A little patience. These things will be decided. The important thing is to be able to hand over the draft budget plan and the budget on time. I think that is what should prevail in the discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u130	The answer is roughly the same with respect to revenue. For example, with regard to excise duties, Mr Laaouej, I explained in committee that people bought alcohol in October, before the increase. The figures were very low at the end of last year and at the beginning of this year. However, there has been a marked increase in the figures since April. As regards the effect of the attacks on VAT, we are analysing the figures. For the rest, you know that with regard to recruitment, we have introduced the minimum interest rate, because necessarily there is an almost zero interest rate effect, in order to catch up with this period which has become structural in revenue. You're right, there are many things to follow. We're following them. But the overall aspect is not that simple.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u131	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u132	We begin by discussing the articles of the draft law on the first adjustment of the Budget for the financial year 2016. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1804/1) We proceed to the discussion of the sections of the bill containing the first adjustment to the Ways and Means budget for the 2016 fiscal year. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1804/1) The draft law has 13 articles. The bill has 13 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u133	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We begin the discussion of the articles of the draft law on the first adjustment of the general expenditure budget for the financial year 2016. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1805/1+2+5) We proceed to the discussion of the sections of the bill containing the first adjustment to the 2016 General Estimates for the fiscal year. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1805/1+2+5) ******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u134	• Karin Temmerman (1805/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u135	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment in question, the Article 1.012, the tables in the annex and the draft general budget for the financial year 2016 will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and Article 1.01.2 reserved and the annexed tables, as well as on the draft general budget for the 2016 budget year as a whole, will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u136	In the meantime, I can tell you that tomorrow's agenda contains the following items: the mini-debate on the Brexit, the oral questions, limited to what we have agreed, the resolution on Syria and the debate on the programme law, on which we have just reached agreement in the Conference of Presidents. I would like to make a few comments on this at the appropriate time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u137	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u138	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Health Committee discussed the draft law at its first reading on 24 and 31 May. The draft was discussed at second reading on 14 June. This draft was also requested by the government as a matter of urgency. The discussion of the draft began with Mrs Onkelinx's question to organise a hearing. It pointed to a difficult dossier, on which there should preferably be a broad consensus. Mrs Van Camp, acting President, reminded us of Rule 28 of the Rules of Procedure, which provides that, in the absence of unanimity, a majority vote must be required to decide on the organisation of a hearing. Mr Thiéry asked the Minister whether the draft had been subject to prior consultation with the sector. Mrs Muylle also pointed to the history of origin. In 2012-2014 there were round tables with the sector and then there was no consensus. At the time and now, the Minister has decided to make progress and submit a draft. It is important that the design can start in September 2016. The Minister then handed over the list of persons she had heard in the preparation of her draft. The committee rejected Mrs Onkelinx's proposal to organise hearings by 11 votes to 3. Subsequently, the introduction was given by the Minister and the general discussion was opened. Mr Hufkens reminded us of the long process of this dossier. Quality progress is being made in the area of health care. On behalf of her group, it is obvious that psychotherapy should be evidence-based. The question was also asked whether the Minister was also considering regulating the profession of clinical sexuologists. The colleague also stressed the importance of the law coming into force in September 2016, as provided for in the coalition agreement. The honourable Member is also asking for an early repayment, including in the context of the future budget. Mr Onkelinx reminded us that when she dealt with the dossier in her capacity as Minister of Health, she worked hard to take everyone's opinion into account. Finally, a compromise for minimum training, supplemented by a theoretical and practical internship, was adopted. The present design does not follow this. Mrs Onkelinx also considered the reservations expressed by the Council of State and concluded that the draft was simply unacceptable. Its vision is purely corporate. The draft comes back to an agreement, a compromise, obtained after many years of discussion and months of work between majority and opposition, between Dutch speakers and French speakers, between the actors in the field. In her view, the text shows an unimaginable lack of coherence, it does not take into account the reality in the field and it will not, under any circumstances, allow the patient to be protected effectively, as was possible under the 2014 law. Ms Muylle recalled the creation of the 2014 law. The committee then decided to proceed in a phased manner and agreed to the compromise text. The Committee considered it important to create a legal framework for the reimbursement of mental health care. The design implements the principle that psychotherapy can only be performed by a doctor, clinical psychologist or clinical orthopedagogue. However, many bachelors are doing a great job today in mental health care. Mrs Muylle also stressed the importance of very broad transitional measures and of the perspective offered to the bachelors, including the prospect of cooperation between private institutions, colleges and universities. Ms Somers stated that she too felt it was important for the law to enter into force effectively in September 2016. According to her, the point of contention in the debate is the positioning of psychotherapy. The present draft does not recognise psychotherapy as a separate profession, but rather as a form of treatment which can be applied by persons who have already received a certain initial training, have acquired a professional title and also have a recognition and visa. According to Mrs Somers, the integration of psychotherapy into the law of 10 May 2015 offers the necessary guarantees in terms of quality. It also considers the transitional measures to be very broad. Mr Jiroflée pointed out that the 2014 law wanted to respond to an influx of psychotherapists, but that that aspect was completely destroyed. The transitional measures envisaged by the Minister do not change that. She also says that her group is concerned about the quality of care to which the patient is entitled. That quality of care was guaranteed by the law of 2014. By restricting access to the profession of psychotherapist, not only reduces the diversity of therapeutic approaches, but also reduces the supply of care. Mr Jiroflée also mentioned, among other things, that the present draft law seems to have been tailored to certain professions in order to ensure that certain persons are no longer allowed to practice psychotherapy in the long term. Mrs Dedry pointed out four different points of the draft and also expressed four reservations. She stressed the importance of the legal basis for the psychotherapists, with a view to reimbursement. It also welcomed the broad transitional measures and the minimum skills required by the draft law to separate the chaff from the wheat. The bill also provides a place for psychotherapy in health care. However, Mrs Dedry had doubts about the seriousness of the proposed minimum standards for access to the profession. She also supported Mrs Muylle's remark that the bachelors who had prior medical training should be able to benefit from transitional measures. Mr Caprasse wondered why the Minister abolished the psychotherapist's profession and reduced psychotherapy to treatment. She found it incomprehensible that some members were against the law in 2014 and are now supporting this bill. She also addressed the training. According to the design, it is sufficient to have a master's degree in clinical psychology or to be a doctor. She also wondered what was the place of the sexuologists in the design. Mr Thiéry felt that every effort should be made to protect the patient. This means that the care provider has received training that meets scientific requirements as well as patient expectations. In 2014, the MR Group already encouraged the approach to include psychotherapy as a type of treatment reserved for clinical psychologists, orthopedagogues and doctors. Mr Thiéry pointed out that his group has always held the view that the training in psychotherapy is a specialised competence, with the most natural access route either a master's degree in psychology or a course in medicine. Mr Thiéry was also pleased that the training would be given to universities and colleges. Mr Senesael referred extensively to the opinion of the Council of State of 29 March 2016. Mr Gerkens regretted the process in which the actors concerned were not heard and the debate was therefore extended. In her view, the draft law does not provide additional protection for the patient. Furthermore, Mr Gerkens stated that the psychotherapy training as such does not exist and that the training as such is a sub-training. Educational institutions primarily train practitioners, such as doctors, clinical psychologists and clinical orthopedagogues. In her view, the basic training of a general practitioner is not sufficient to start training in psychotherapy. She also criticised the composition of the Federal Council for the mental health professions and shared the opinion of colleague Onkelinx after reading recent scientific literature. Mr Janssens limited himself to two questions relating to the composition of the Federal Council. After a long debate, the Minister replied to the various questions by clarifying once again the objectives of the draft, inter alia that the draft law aims to maintain the diversity of treatments and that therapeutic freedom is safeguarded. The mental health care should be included in the co-ordinated law of 10 May 2015 on the exercise of healthcare professions because the patient needs to be assured that his provider has received quality training and that the quality of care will be monitored. The Minister concluded by replying to the comments made by the Council of State. Mrs Gerkens took the second round by saying that it was unacceptable for her to change the law for universities because they refused to organise the bridge programme. She also stressed that reimbursement for mental health care should be regulated. According to Mrs Gerkens, the draft drastically reduces the number of healthcare providers whose interventions are reimbursed. Ladies and gentlemen, we will then have the article-by-article discussion and the vote, without a final vote, which took place on 14 June 2016. The committee then considered a second reading of the draft. Mr Senesael then suggested that the profession of psychotherapist was not recognised. He insists that the legislator ignores the wealth of properly trained professionals. He also considered that the Federal Council for the mental health professions was not sufficiently representative. Ms Fonck started her speech by agreeing to the objective of providing patients with added value in terms of quality. Mrs Fonck also felt that it was a good thing that attention should be paid to access to health care. It does, however, have comments on the patient's offer of care and on the transitional measures. Finally, Mrs Fonck also stated that she was concerned about the impact of the design on the structures employed by psychotherapists, because those practitioners were losing their autonomy. In his speech, Mr Frédéric discussed the acquired rights and the protection of the title of psychotherapist. He states that by not providing for an authorisation or recognition, the legislator does not provide sufficient protection for the patient. Mrs Gerkens also points out from the first reading report that many questions remain unanswered, including questions about the concrete consequences of the Minister's position on psychotherapy and on the title of psychotherapist. It also considers that the Minister's replies on the concrete definition of supervision are not sufficiently clear. There were also too few answers to questions about the possibilities of reimbursement, the reference frameworks, training centres and the composition of the Federal Council. Minister De Block stressed that she remains of the opinion that psychotherapy is a form of treatment that is part of the psychological treatment. Anyone who provides psychotherapy as part of the design will also be able to be called psychotherapist. There is also a need to ensure maximum protection for patients and access to care. According to the Minister, she wants the design to combat quacking and sectarian excrement. The Federal Council should be set up as soon as possible, as it plays an important role in drafting the implementing decisions. The Minister ends the debate with the fact that a pacification is indispensable. Hence the broad wording contained in the transitional measures. The whole bill was adopted by 10 votes to 3 and 2 abstentions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u139	Mrs Muylle, I would like to thank you for the report and say that the general discussion has been opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u140	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the report, I would like to briefly express our views on this dossier. Let me be clear, I think we are taking another important step today, as in 2014. It is an important step to create the necessary safe framework for the patient-client who is in an extremely vulnerable situation. Ladies and gentlemen, we are well aware of the context. There is a huge increase in psychological care in our society. We prescribe too much medication, we treat too little, we have too long waiting lists and the financial thresholds are often too high. The reimbursement must be made quickly, but this cannot be achieved without the recognition of care providers and a strong organisational model of our mental health care. This draft is a first important step in this respect. It amends the 2014 Law on some fundamental points that prevented the implementation of the 2014 Law. In particular, it concerns the procedure before the Constitutional Court of the orthopedagogics, the impossibility of organising the bridge programme and the complexity that arose in delivering the authorisations for the psychotherapists as a result of the sixth state reform. Colleagues, the comments of orthopedagogists are reflected in the draft by introducing a minority opinion in the Federal Council and adding a diagnosis to the definition. These questions were also on the table in 2014, but due to the very different educational landscape in both parts of the country and the lack of a full master's degree in French language education, it was then impossible to integrate this. The influx into psychotherapy is only made possible for the masters in the future. Of course, I was outraged at first reading, because we made other choices in 2014. Through the bridge programme we saw the bachelors influx into psychotherapy. I have also seen how people have struggled over the last year to achieve this bridge programme. If this doesn't work, then I think choices need to be made. I also see the advantages of the containment of psychotherapy in KB nr. 78, which was not possible in 2014 because the Minister had only once decided to open the KB, only for psychologists and orthopedagogics, and we were right to seek a solution outside the KB. I have always asked for three points of attention throughout the debate. A first point of attention is the appreciation for those who are doing brilliantly on the work field today. The competences acquired must therefore be able to be honoured, they must be able to be evaluated. The broad transitional measures contained in the draft today give that guarantee, whatever one may say. The additional condition that non-health appeals should cooperate with other health professions is also strong. This is not a negative discussion about autonomy. For me, it is a positive discussion about cooperation, networking and multidisciplinaryness of our care, which must strengthen for all care providers and which is the only right way forward for the future. My second concern is also to give a future to the many bachelors who see their future in mental health care and who cannot or do not want to take the first step towards a master's level. With the supporting GGZ profession we give them a very nice perspective there and we also fill a need in the field, which is a lot of demand. I therefore ask the Minister to make quick work, together with the Communities, of the supportive mental health profession. Thirdly, I would also urge that the access of the masters should not be interpreted too narrowly and that the list should also be expanded quickly. I am thinking, among other things, of the Masters of Psychic Nursing and the Sexuologists, which is also made possible by the design. Further work on practical placements, both for graduate psychologists and in therapy training, is also positive, as is the incantation from 2017 of the course of therapy within the field of education, by allowing them to work together with colleges and universities. Colleagues, training for recognised health professions or actions should therefore, in our view, be encased in the field of education. Colleagues, is this design ideal? No. Does it deserve our support? Yes. It will also be important to ensure that the many royal decisions, Madam Minister, are carried out quickly and in terms of content. Will there be any troubles on our way? Yes, because for that the field of work is complex and the dossier is complex, but let us solve it together. I would therefore like to thank everyone, both ministers, their collaborators, colleagues from the majority and opposition, for the long way along in the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u141	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, part of our society is in a state of suffering. She's morale in the dark, obviously I'm not teaching you anything. The latest check-up of the Belgian health system, carried out by the KCE, the INAMI and the Scientific Institute of Public Health, shows this, the number of suicides is high, the consumption of antidepressants continues to increase and care in psychiatric institutions is constantly increasing. As we know, there is a great variety of psychic sufferings: depression, burn-out, mal-being are increasingly common. And if the feelings of anxiety, impotence, loss of benchmarks, and self-confidence that result from them must be taken care of, they must obviously not be taken up solely by the use of medicines. Of course, drugs are effective in treating certain mental pathologies and disorders, but they are not in all cases, on the contrary. The management of certain psychic sufferings through speech, dialogue, communication is indeed essential, beneficial to the patient. It's the very essence of what we call psychotherapy. To cite just one example, I will talk about dealing with depression. According to a KCE report published in 2014, psychotherapy combined with antidepressants should be the preferred option in this context. And if the patient in major depression does not want combined treatment, it is psychotherapy that must always be offered as the first choice, because it is at least as effective in the short term as drugs and is more effective in the long term. A psychotherapy performed by a quality practitioner therefore offers chances of healing and well-being. And reading the scientific literature, what characterizes a good psychotherapist, is his ability to adapt, to be flexible. It is indeed this reactivity by which the psychotherapist adapts his intervention to the patient and to his particular situation for one purpose: to create a relationship of collaboration, help, trust in order to maximize the effectiveness of his intervention. I would also like to pay tribute to the work of these many professionals, who today provide effective and indispensable assistance to those who feel the need for it. In this field, one must be able to remove one's eyes, to undo one's prejudices, to open one's eyes, to listen, to look at one's full interest in this specific field of psychotherapy, at the crossroads of medicine, psychology and the social sciences. Psychotherapy is complex and should not be considered merely a medical act. To make my point clear, I would like to give a precise example of Siegi Hirsch, the 2002 Mensch Prize. It is recognized in many countries as one of the precursors of family therapies in Europe. Jewish of German origin, it was in a concentration camp that he forged his idea of the individual, his ability to change and the importance of the imagination as a refuge against barbarism. First of all, as an educator in children's homes, he was only later educated as a social worker. To help an adolescent in difficulty build an identity, he has given priority to an approach related to how his family works. In France, Siegi Hirsch shared his experience of therapeutic work in institutions. He trained educators, psychologists, children's judges. Without knowing this, he also conveyed his approach to hundreds of psychotherapists from the family, the couple and institutions in Belgium. He has trained trainers. He trained an impressive number of psychiatrists. One of the psychiatrists said of him that "when he takes care of families of deportees, Siegi encourages them to remember positive anecdotes that go in the direction of life rather than to work by reemerging trauma. It was through his thought, his work as a teacher and a psychotherapist that he contributed to the work of memory." It is a reference that must lead us to reflect. This example allows us to observe that from a life experience and serious practical training, this man has been recognized throughout the world as a reference in psychotherapy. Today, with the bill that many are about to vote, Siegi Hirsch could not be recognized as a psychotherapist. Let's not face it! In addition to experiences like this and high-quality psychotherapists, there are also charlatans. Drifts exist, as do harmful interventions and abuses. For several years, some parliamentarians, in particular, have considered it necessary to frame the practice of psychotherapy for one single purpose: to protect patients. In the end, two trends emerged very quickly: on the one hand, those who believe that the diploma must take precedence and, on the other, those who believe that it is training that is essential. Is it really necessary to see things in such a dichotomous way in this complex field? While I was Minister of Health, it was without preconceived opinion that in close cooperation with the committee's parliamentarians, the majority as opposed, we had decided to take up this problem with arms. A complex but fruitful work which had led to an important consensus between these trends, which I have just mentioned, between the majority and the opposition, a consensus which corresponds to the different sensitivities between the North and the South of the country, between the actors on the ground and between the different currents. The aim of this law was to protect the patient by guaranteeing him/her trained and experienced professionals to help him/her. It was also an important step forward for practitioners themselves, clinician psychologists, orthopedagogues and psychotherapists, who were thus recognized and protected through professionalization of their practices. This text was certainly not perfect, like many. He doubtless deserved some adaptations and clarifications: a programme law and implementing decrees would have remedied them without difficulty. Instead, Madam Minister, you are totally questioning the compromise and, it is true, you have been supported by parliamentarians who have completely returned their jackets. I have in mind what Mrs Muylle was able to say at the time, who left in the meantime, who had been an ardent defendant of this conception of this law and who today pleads exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u142	Mr President, I would like to point out that I will let Mrs Onkelinx go further in her approach and in her speech. In my speech, however, I will reply to a number of charges brought by Mrs Onkelinx, with which we obviously do not agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u143	Intervening to say that he's going to intervene is interesting! You are undermining the very essence of psychotherapy which, in your opinion, must also be based on evidence. To submit this practice to the logic of evidence based medicine alone is to ignore the importance of subjective elements, elements of life and, above all, the scope that words can have in the relationship between the patient and the psychotherapist. We've been gloating a lot about what psychotherapy is compared to medicine. Why in terms of psychotherapy, should we be able to deviate from the logic of the evidence? Medicine seeks an adequate response to suppress a symptom, a treatment that suppresses a cause. Psychotherapy, for its part, mobilizes the resources of the person, of the family, of its network to increase its freedom of choice. There is no one-size-fits-all solution. The causes of ill-being are either exogenous, so we look for what power we can have over these causes, or endogenous, then we will seek to restructure the way in which the person thinks, feels, acts. The work is done in a relational process and in a specific epistemological framework. This definition makes it possible to understand why, in this matter, it is questionable to want to work as if it were a medical act like another on the basis of all this reflection on the evidence. Increasing the focus of care will, moreover, inevitably lead us to an objectivation of mental illnesses. I am already afraid that if a refund of this care were to be considered in the future, then it would be linked to what is traditionally called a care path: "Madam, you have an anxiety disorder. You are entitled to four psychotherapy sessions. After that, it will have to be better. And if that's not the case, that's not the case!" The psychotherapist will simply become an intermediary who can no longer judge freely the follow-up to the treatment. The patient, however, will no longer be able to benefit from the care adapted to his or her situation, which can be moving, as we know. I said it; you reduce psychotherapy to a simple medical act and seem to make a corporatist choice by restricting its practice to psychologists and orthopedagogues alone clinicians. You prefer a trend by putting the diploma above the experience. You clearly give the impression that a Community orientation has been chosen. For you, people who currently train psychiatrists could not accommodate patients as psychotherapists because they do not have the expected degree, because they are not in the three occupational categories you have retained. And then, there's what I call the "consolation lot", the "consolation lot" for those who already practice psychotherapy, since all can continue to do so. It was felt there that there was a negotiation, that part of the majority did not fully agree to return their jacket completely and, therefore, negotiated something for the transitional period. All psychotherapists, both good and bad, will be able to continue to exercise for a very long transitional period. Currently, students in training will also be part of the transitional period. You can imagine the delay. The negotiation between the two tendencies of the majority, we see what it has given. During this transitional period, the madness is that the safety of patients is absolutely not guaranteed. There is no difference between a psychotherapist who adheres to extremely stringent training requirements and others. In the Committee on Public Health, Mr Frédéric, who for a long time chaired the Committee on Sectors in Parliament, has explained to you the sectarian drifts that are constantly increasing in medical matters. This is all the more true since you do not even recognize the four currents specified in the 2014 law. This would make it possible to provide patients with appropriate, diverse, clearly defined care, while at the same time removing harmful or questionable practices. Today, you simply tell us that these currents are out of date without being able to tell us in which field psychotherapy should be practised in the future. Plurality, yes, let it be, no! We're far from the rigor you're trying to defend. Finally, your way of working is cleavage, it is contemptuous and it bothers me deeply. This bill, whatever you may say, has been drafted without much consultation with the entire sector. Earlier, at the invitation of a large part of the sector, we attended a press conference where more than sixty representatives of associations not only criticized the project but said: "Stop lies"! When it is said that we have negotiated this project, that we have listened to the entire profession, it is not true! Your project is constantly being denounced. There are petitions. Opposition letters are multiplying. They are not only psychotherapists, but also heads of institutions, directors of training institutes, teachers, academics and student representatives. There is therefore a major problem with the future application of this law, because it is absolutely not carried by the majority of those who practice psychotherapy on a daily basis. But beyond our fundamentally divergent visions, your bill is filled with shortcomings, inaccuracies, ambiguity and contradictions. This observation is also made by the Council of State. This, of course, can only be harmful to both patients and practitioners. The Council of State was severe with your project. Undoubtedly, if this bill is voted as it is, its route will not stop with the vote in Parliament. So I was saying: shortcomings, inaccuracies, ambiguities, and contradictions. With regard to psychotherapy, first of all, it is a radical change of course: in the future, only doctors, clinical psychologists and clinical orthopedagogues who have undergone specific training will be able to practise psychotherapy. You say that you are based on the opinion of the Supreme Council of Hygiene of 2005. But you have to be on the right side. Either you haven't read it in its entirety or you have selected only those parts that are acceptable to you. You want someone who defends a supposedly rigorous vision of principle, you will allow me to be skeptical. Earlier, one of the professionals who participated in the drafting of the opinion of the Higher Council of Hygiene almost strangled themselves as a result of your comments on the interpretation of this opinion. The said Council says that health professionals applying for specific training in psychotherapy will have successfully followed the master's level courses, but it also says that this may not be the case and that additional training is therefore needed. So it's a bias on your part. I regret, of course, that this opinion has not been followed up on this and many others. Beyond this, by restricting the practice of psychotherapy to these three categories of professionals, you are clearly reducing the supply – and I am, of course, talking about the quality of the supply – at a time when mental health problems in the population are clearly increasing. I have already said that; Mrs Muylle, in her speech, also recalled it. So we are witnessing a growing need for psychotherapy and a decrease in quality supply. It is sufficient, moreover, to see the waiting times for an appointment at a mental health centre or at a care professional. Even more serious, since you place supervision of psychotherapy in the hands of doctors in particular, the risk of greater medication for disorders is not to be overlooked. I remind you that they are also prescribers, that medication only works in a small number of patients and that we have been fighting for years to reduce the consumption of antidepressants in our country. Finally, and this is one of the biggest contradictions of this project, you integrate psychotherapy into the law of 10 May 2015 on the exercise of health care professions "so that quality guarantees and protective measures are applied". You will excuse me, but it makes absolutely no sense to incorporate it into this law, since you no longer consider psychotherapy as a profession. In addition, you do so without making it subject to any type of authorization, as is the case for other health care professions. No requirement in terms of continuing training or hours of practice is mentioned. So I don't think you're going to protect the patient with this new legislation. In terms of transitional measures, there too, the patient is in danger. You open extremely broad transitional provisions "for", you say, "respond to what is currently being done on the ground and allow for appeasement". You therefore clearly acknowledge that you did not take into account the specificities of the terrain. But then you don't do anything to protect patients. Patients who may find themselves confronted with incompetent practitioners, or even charlatans, who have undergone fanciful training or who do not have the necessary psycho-medical and social skills. At the same time, practitioners with decades of experience will have to be supervised by care professionals who have just completed their training in psychotherapy but who, for their part, will be able to practice independently, even though they will have no experience. The primacy of the medical degree over training and experience, again to the detriment of patients and practitioners, we are beginning to get used to it! The way you plan to treat osteopaths is not very different. There are also inconsistencies and ambiguities in training. You are planning a specific training course of at least 70 credits from universities and colleges, as well as a professional internship corresponding to two years of practice. I still can't figure it out. Either the planned training will be extremely demanding – so it will be difficult to put it into practice for practitioners and future practitioners – or it is not at all and it is no longer training that will really protect the patient. But the most dramatic part of this is to ignore the richness and diversity of the approaches of training institutes, which have sometimes organized long-term specific training courses for years and which are also already working with universities. These are essential pillars of the profession to which you turn your back. I would remind you that, pending a political compromise that has been delayed for years, institutes have continued to train most properly. Today, if we continue this project, they should put the key under the doormat. A few more words about the Federal Council of Mental Health Care Professions and the exercise of clinical psychology and clinical orthopedagogy. I would like to say a few more words to highlight the little consideration you have, Madam Minister, for these professionals and their specific experience. Indeed, you believe that doctors can exercise clinical psychology and clinical orthopedagogy because "the current training of doctors gives more and more attention to the psychosocial aspect". Reducing the management of mental health care in our society with such an argument can cause us to doubt your real willingness to protect the patient. Finally, I come to the Single Council which you have decided to set up. You simplified it. I see no problem with this simplification. Maybe it's even a good thing. But it is this Council which will have to decide in particular on the future of the practice of psychotherapy, which could potentially have no psychotherapy practitioner in its midst. It's just upuesque. I stop here because the shortcomings and ambiguities of this project are obviously far more numerous. Colleagues, human beings are complex, and mental health problems are complex. Ensuring quality mental health care and patient safety was our goal in 2014, which is clearly not your case today, Minister. In an open letter addressed to us, someone said that "the air of time increasingly treats individuals as things and patients as diseases". This is a narrow vision of health care. And it's unfortunately that vision you're defending for mental health care. Let me tell you that you are terribly disappointing!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u144	Mr President, I will be brief, because the run-up to this draft law has taken a long time and the layout has had a lot of groundwork. The debate has been going on for more than 20 years and today, after a lot of extensive discussions in the committee, a breakthrough has finally been achieved. It may be said that the draft law is based on the law on psychotherapy of 4 April 2014, which is a merit of fellow Members from the previous legislature. They have therefore paved the way for this text. Honesty commands us at the same time to say that this law is not in line with professional and academic reality and contains a number of shortcomings, which makes its implementation impossible. That will be corrected today. Moreover, contrary to what a previous speaker claims, the draft law has indeed been rejected by the sector. The Minister consulted 23 interest groups, sought advice from the High Health Council and based on 23 different country studies. In other words, the draft law does have a basis for support. As I said at the beginning of my speech, the draft law made a breakthrough. Unfortunately, today we have to note that mental health problems are only continuing to increase. Tele-Onthal's figures showed today that more and more people are complaining about mental health problems. There is also more and more breakdown in the workplace. For these reasons, it is very important that patients with mental health problems receive appropriate, safe and quality assistance. Due to a hugely fragmented landscape, in which almost everyone can call themselves a psychotherapist, patients unfortunately become a play ball between different therapists before receiving appropriate help. In times when suicides increase, that's disastrous! Despite differences of opinion on the two sides of the language border, the draft law no longer makes it possible for anyone to call themselves a psychotherapist. By a clear definition of psychotherapy as a treatment form and by the clinical psychologist and orthopedagogue in Royal Decree No. 78 to record, charlatans will no longer be able to hang a sign of "psychotherapist" at their door. Some call this medicalisation, but I am convinced that the bill is the only way to finally provide the patient with the necessary protection against those who think mental health problems are very easy to remedy by, for example, tantra or meditation. As always in the case of major breakthroughs, this draft law has raised questions in the sector. The mental health landscape was feared to deteriorate. That is a legitimate concern and the sector deserves additional support today, but it is being addressed. There was a great deal of concern with the experienced bachelors Psychotherapy who feared that they could no longer perform their job independently and with new students Psychotherapy, who were unclear about their future. That is why our group asked at the first exchange of views on the draft law in December last year to provide for very clear transitional measures for persons who, for example, have only received Bachelor's training or who are still starting Psychotherapy today. Our group is therefore very pleased, Madam Minister, that you have provided for very broad transitional measures for those who are not going to exercise a medical profession but are able to work as a supporter in a mental health profession. Moreover, the offer will not be reduced. The draft law still allows for the opening up of the profession to other disciplines, such as clinical sexologists. In short, for us, the draft law creates the necessary clarity and opens the perspective for people who have had experience in the field for years and for newcomers who want to enter psychotherapy. In addition, this is also a great achievement for the first time between the different disciplines. It connects the whole field. Moreover, the Minister has assured that additional measures will follow which will only improve the obligation of referral and interdisciplinarity. We welcome that. I will conclude, fellow Members. The design that is on the table is not perfect, but it is a beautiful design that eliminates the impossibility of the previous text, takes into account the sensitivities on the ground, both on the Flemish side and on the French-speaking side, and puts the most important quality and safety first. Our group therefore fully supports the draft and considers it extremely important that it can enter into force on 1 September 2016, as provided for in the coalition agreement, if only because the draft law does not mean the end. The draft law and the clear definitions of those who can exercise psychotherapy will make it possible to examine the reimbursement of psychotherapeutic consultations. We really need to start this discussion, especially since mental health is becoming increasingly important in our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u145	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think that too regularly in this forum, even if it is the democratic principle that implies it, we tend to repeat the debates that have already taken place in committee. I listened carefully to Mrs. Onkelinx. If there are a number of points on which we can find ourselves, there are others on which, as has been said on both sides in committee, we were not in agreement. We have a very different view of the question. In rereading the report of the commission's work and certainly the first reading, I found that Minister De Block had already responded to most of the arguments and objections that you have raised again today, Mrs Onkelinx. I am therefore a little surprised, because if, in the end, we can disagree with the position of the minister, with the answers to the questions, there has been some. I would like to return to a rather fundamental point. You said in your speech "the Council of State is extremely severe with your project". "You have taken into account a number of elements but not all and so it may eventually be a problem." I would just like to say that, to my knowledge, in the previous draft, the Council of State had not had the opportunity to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u146	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u147	I am simply saying that here we have made a specific request to the Council of State which has given a number of remarks which have been partly taken into account. On the other hand, in the previous project, that was not the case. I would like to go back to that because, if I remember correctly - I am of course referring to the document which was given to me, so the report of the first reading - it is stated: "the minister considers that the law of 4 April undoubtedly represented a giant step in mental health care but certain shortcomings jeopardized the applicability of this law and therefore required adaptations, for example, during the composition of the Federal Council for Clinical Psychology and Clinical Orthopedagogy". In the same vein, if I refer to an opinion given by the Belgian Federation of Psychologists, it was not until 2014 that the profession of clinician psychologist was recognized as a profession related to health care. Unfortunately, legal problems arose in the first bill and, in particular, in the area of regulation and the practice of psychotherapy. These legal problems were such that enforcement – one of the cornerstones of the Michel government's health care policy – was at risk. It is, of course, logical to have a different vision or approach that will ultimately allow for the applicability of this law. That was not the case before.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u148	This bill is important, very important. I will come back to that more precisely when I take the floor. It is particularly petty to compare legislative proposals drawn up by all parliamentarians on the basis of several legislative proposals tabled by various parliamentarians from various political groups, which have been confronted with actors on the ground and with reflection. In this case, we are dealing with a bill from a minister; it is a bill submitted for the advice of the Council of State. So don't get involved in wanting to compare two processes! The content of the Council of State's opinion on the draft law critical of poor definitions between different providers. These criticisms have not been met and indeed remain. As for the legal elements relating to the 2014 law between orthopedagogues and clinicians, these are questions of definitions that we can support in repair, improvement and correction. But you are well aware that the basis of criticism of this bill and its scope is not easily adjustable elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u149	I will not repeat what Mrs Gerkens said very well. Indeed, we are faced with two very different approaches. The first is a consensus approach. Everyone, the majority and opposition, except the Vlaams Belang and the N-VA, agreed with the professionals I had gathered, countless times, French-speaking and Dutch-speaking. All of us, together, agreed and wanted to move forward. For years and years, this has been dealt with in parliament. It remains the second approach, which is a cleavage approach, where we choose and move to the detriment of, among other things, a whole range of practitioners and patient protection, without worrying about the consensus that has been established in the past. You argue that the law wasn't perfect, but I said it myself. Suffice it to make a law containing various provisions, at the beginning of the legislature, concerning the councils for the clinical orthopedagogy, clinical psychological, a small amendment, and on the other hand, to work immediately, from the outset, in the framework, in the follow-up, in the wake of the 2014 law on implementing orders. If we had worked like this, this law would now be applied. The choice was quite different: we corrected what was supposed to be, then we threw these years of work, this consensus into the trash. And we choose a cleavage path. Mr Thiéry, you who had initially accepted this consensus, you have followed the path of the minister and you are in fact turning your jacket completely back since these two options are totally different on psychotherapy. You can't compare them. You made a choice A under the former legislature, then you made a choice B later. Don't say it's because you have to fix a law! It has nothing to do with it: we have changed our philosophy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u150	Mrs Gerkens, with regard to the basis of the draft and the consensus, I shall come back to it a little further in my speech. But there is still a certain consensus, whether we want to hear it or not. Mrs. Onkelinx, you say "it would have been enough." While I recall, in the 2014 law, it was also said, in conclusion, that in the end, this law was a first step, that at least a number of things were highlighted but that this law would also be improved. What are we doing now? We took the opportunity to improve it. I understand your frustration. You say "to unblock" but it is a complementary approach that is more strict, more orderly and more controlled. I understand very well that it bothers some. Here, the will has been to put in place a system that is now extremely clear and displeases some. What I don't want to hear anymore is when we are told – and it's a message that goes through social networks regularly and even by e-mail – "with the law that's in place now, you're going to lose the employment of 3,000 or 4,000 psychotherapists or practitioners." That is absolutely not true! It's misinformation. This is not the first time we have heard misinformation in this Parliament!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u151	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u152	Mrs. Onkelinx, it's not about you. I didn't say it was you. I just said that that's what I see, that's what I read on social media and these are messages that are relayed by several agents as well. But I didn't say it was you in particular. That being said, there may be a complementary element. Without wanting to repeat the entire debate that has already been held in committee, I still want to point out that you say that the 2014 draft was unanimous. I'm just seeing. I referred to this carte blanche of January 6, 2014, published in a well-known newspaper on the French-speaking side, which had been written by twelve French-speaking university professors. Here, I come back to the Community problem. I am told: "First of all, it is a community issue because the problem is not the same in the North as in the South of the country." Clearly, this is not the case because, when we read the carte blanche of university specialists on the francophone side, they already warned the political authority of the differences that might exist between the project put in place and the objectives pursued. These elements, I gave them in committee, I will not call them back here. On the other hand, everyone will be able to find them in the first reading report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u153	Mr President, I am not questioning this white card which was written and which we actually received at the time. What did the signatories of this white card want and what did they get? That training should only be provided through universities. They are the same people who refused to set up bridges to allow people who had a baccalaureate but did not have the skills required by the 2014 law to acquire them before starting their training in psychotherapy. Through this bill, you have therefore chosen not only to change the direction of the 2014 law but also to hear them, only them and not all the actors, including psychotherapy trainers. Some of these university professors have been trained outside the university but want to maintain the monopoly of these courses. That's what you're relaying!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u154	That is correct because we have always defended the position that training, as such, should use a master's degree or even a doctorate. As indicated in this white card, in several countries, some call for training to have the degree of doctorate and not the master's degree. However, through this project, psychotherapy is conceived as a form of treatment performed by a doctor, a clinician psychologist, as in opinion 7855 of the Higher Council of Health. This opinion states that psychotherapy is a specialisation of a number of health care professions and that the importance of the scientific basis and the complexity of the evaluation of psychotherapeutic practice requires that basic training be at least the level of the master's degree. It is true that I went to see again, during the debates in 2014, what our position was, then defended by Mr Bacquelaine. That was the position.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u155	You are quoting Mr Bacquelaine, at the time a Member of Parliament, who was the homeland of negotiators. He has always demanded important and serious training. Initially, he did want a full university degree. We had put on the table a long and serious training. If one was not a bachelor in a particular orientation, one had to have at least acquired in a whole series of branches, plus 500 hours of theoretical training and four years of practical training. It was on the basis of what we had proposed in terms of extremely serious training that Mr Bacquelaine found it to be a good project.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u156	That's right. I could even recall what Mr Bacquelaine said at this specific place in 2014: "The training in psychotherapy is for us a specialized skill whose most natural access is that of a master's degree in psychology or a medical training specialist in psychiatry. It is the whole question of the prerequisites that is essential to ensure the safety of patients. It is not conceivable for us to accept a levelling down, but to pull everyone up." I think that can't be clearer. That said, that is not entirely contrary to what you are saying. The essential thing is, and it is also an element that had been defended by Mr. Bacquelaine, that the claimant can diagnose that he is not facing a somatic problem and that, if not, he can refer the patient knowingly to a claimant otherwise qualified to treat him. I would like to return to the fact that the project has been coordinated. I heard in committee that there was not enough open consultation. Mrs Hufkens reminded us of the number of people, the number of associations that have been agreed. But who says concertation doesn't specifically say that we are going to find a global consensus that would agree with everyone. The most important thing in this consultation is to at least hear and listen to each other's views, and to dictate a course of action on this basis, which of course does not always correspond to each other's ideas. Some criticisms relate to the suppression of different currents. We talked about it a little earlier. This obviously does not mean that a cognitive-behavioural psychotherapist, for example, will no longer be able to practise. That's not true. What I would like to say is that when we send out the serious message that 3,000 to 5,000 people will lose their jobs and end up on the street because they will no longer be able to practice, it is totally wrong. Some, of course, will have to practice differently. These are those who do not currently have the required degree as stipulated in the law. But they will continue to practice with some sort of supervision. The big advantage is that supervision will not only protect the patient, but it will simply protect the profession of psychotherapist, because there will be control over how people work. You mentioned earlier an exceptional example of psychotherapists who teach impeccably on the basis of their personal experience. But of course, and I think we can all agree with this approach. The point is that these people will be able to continue working and, if they are more effective than some others, this task will be multidisciplinary and will allow everyone to find themselves there. But coming to say that there are going to be between 3,000 and 5,000 people who are going to lose their jobs is a lie!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u157	Mr. Thiéry's speech is quite surprising, as he responds to a criticism that I haven't really heard. It's kind of strange! I have never stated or heard this argument in the parliamentary proceedings. Besides, you're talking about performance. I prefer to talk about quality professionals. It's not about performance. What matters is to have a diversity of approaches by quality professionals.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u158	Of course. Yes, yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u159	It's very important, because it's philosophy itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u160	I agree with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u161	Mr President, the minister or the majority must answer. When you talk about control, what is it? Can you show me the articles of the law that explain this notion? What are the modalities? Who's in charge? This is the first time I've heard this argument.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u162	The principle of supervision has been reflected in our discussions in committee. I do not know if you have had the opportunity to reread the document completely because I know that, unfortunately, for other reasons, you have not been able to attend the whole debate. In the meantime, the minister had developed several arguments to that effect and explained the system. I guess she'll talk about it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u163	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u164	Okay, we understand each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u165	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I did not intend to intervene because this debate has been held in committee for days, but now that the debate is on the cooperation of health professions and non-health calls, on intervision and supervision, I must intervene. I have just said in my speech that it is not the intention to have a negative discussion about autonomy and control, because that is not in the text and that is not the spirit of the text either. The spirit of the text, as our colleague said, is multidisciplinary. I haven't been working on petitions or anything like that in the last few weeks. I didn't get one from the Flemish side. I have only received many questions from psychotherapists who have been visiting me to explain their specific situation and their trajectory. They wonder what awaits them and how they can proceed. Over the last two weeks, I've seen over 30 psychotherapists, or heard them over the phone, or read them by e-mail. Well, almost all of them are connected to a psychiatrist or to a psychologist and are already working together. That means that this law doesn't change anything for them. Everything stays the way it is. They are already exchanging files with each other today, they are already talking to each other. Exactly because of the cross-pollination of the various professions and the different inks, they are much stronger in their profession today than if they were to perform the solo, autonomously. Very little will change. We are talking about redundancies and the loss of autonomy. I know that the opposition likes to feed these things, but that is totally unjustified and unfair to the people on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u166	Mrs Muylle, who in the opposition is fuelling these rumours of job losses? Who? I don't understand what you're saying.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u167	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u168	I don't know, but answer my question. Mr. Thiéry is not in the opposition. I don't understand what you're saying.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u169	I would be surprised, given the current activity of all political parties on social networks, that no one is aware of it, all the more so at the level of the members of your group.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u170	I absolutely don't know what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u171	So I will send you the various e-mails that are circulating. I also invite you to visit Facebook to learn about the various information that is currently circulating there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u172	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u173	Mrs. Onkelinx, I don't understand why you feel you're being targeted. I simply said that there was misinformation and that, as a coincidence, this is not the first time this has happened. Let me just ask you the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u174	Madam President, I have not seen 3,000 job losses due to the project. On the other hand, I have heard concerns from some who are working today with a certain statute, some training and who fear the passing of this bill. Had the time been taken to properly consult a series of practitioners, they would certainly have expressed their concerns before and during the committee work. That said, there's Facebook. A lot of people are mobilizing. There are petitions. Many messages are sent. You have to take over! You have decided to pass a bill that includes a whole series of unforeseeables, is of concern and contains elements that we are critical of, as are practitioners on the ground. Don't be surprised at this kind of reaction! And you mustn't turn against the opposition. You must instead turn against yourself. This is the consequence of your choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u175	Mr Thiéry, I insist that you respond to the arguments that we put forward in committee rather than refer to statements that may have been made on social networks. I am thinking in particular of the eventual planned disappearance of the training institutes which were created by the four currents since there was no supervision in the law. They have done a great job of being able, precisely, to be certain of having quality psychotherapists. What will happen to these private institutes? These are arguments that we have developed extensively. Mrs. Muylle, you've received thirty psychotherapists, that's very good. Personally, earlier, I was with sixty psychotherapists of various obediences: psychiatrists, others who did not have this training and do not meet the criteria of the law but who felt that with this bill, it was psychotherapy in its essence that was being addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u176	Mr Onkelinx, I want to have a serene debate with you. I have been very closely involved in the drafting of this legislation. In addition to a number of specific questions about the status and training, I have heard questions and concerns from psychotherapists and psychologists, from the training centres, the universities and the colleges, on the Flemish side, but I have also felt a positive dynamic with regard to this bill. You're wondering what's going to happen to these therapy courses. Today, on the Flemish side, I see a movement towards cooperation. This week, another therapy course with a university of applied sciences has been held together to see how they can organise business from 2017. There have been contacts between therapy courses and certain universities. The field of work in Flanders is organizing itself. We do not wait months and we do not start petitions, we act and we ensure that these cooperations come about. This is what is happening today on the Flemish side. Those therapy courses will be able to continue. They'll just be encased. Mr Onkelinx, you must explain to me why for a health profession that we recognise here today, it is no longer acceptable that its training should not be enclosed in education. There's a few more. You referred to the osteopaths and others. I believe that we should find a solution in the field of education. For every recognised health profession, I believe that there should be training that is recognised within education. I therefore think it is a good development that these cooperations are being developed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u177	Mr Thiéry, that some are already resigned and adapted is their choice. There are sometimes different temperaments: some resign, others resist because they feel that the project is unfair. I remind you that the first time that the minister came with her intentions not provided for in the government agreement, one of the most angry in committee, was you! Because you felt that this was absolutely not in line with the history of psychotherapy. And obviously, I can believe it, it is you who fought and got the transitional arrangements that have no meaning since they go in a direction radically different from the meaning of the project and do not protect the patient. I find this absolutely amazing! To return to your comments about these trainings, remember that psychotherapy is not recognized. The act is recognized. The psychotherapist as such is not included in the law 2015, former decree of 1978. And as far as the old law was concerned, we recognized training but not at any cost. These trainings had to be recognised: we had spoken at length and insisted on the quality of the trainings that were organised and had decided to accept them as quality trainings, provided that they met certain criteria and were accepted as such. I therefore think that we have done the job in terms of the quality of training.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u178	Mrs Onkelinx, if you had just listened to me, if it was in Dutch, you would have heard that I was outraged at first reading. You look a little down on the transitional measures, but there is also a very big difference between the text originally tabled by the Minister and the text before you today. There are very strong transitional measures today, which means that there is a future for bachelors, which, by the way, was not there in the 2014 law. In addition, today we have also gained the opportunity of the supportive mental health profession. In my view, progress on what is now on the table, as opposed to the text at first reading, is sufficient to defend the draft today. It is correct that we have included a lot of quality requirements for training in the 2014 law, but they are now there. I am thinking of the 70 credits and the collaborations between colleges and universities from 2017. Do you think there are no quality requirements? Yes, there are. I don't understand when you're talking about the Wild West. You say things that are completely false. You're always twisting things. You don't see what the consequences will be in the field. You don't see that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u179	Colleagues, I think both sides have made their position clear. I propose that Mr Thiéry continue his speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u180	Mrs Gerkens, we take on our choices. It's obvious. We take on the information but, on the other hand, what we do not assume is disinformation. Again, I did not say where she came from, but we will find the people who are responsible for this misinformation. It is easy to scare the population concerned. But from the moment this fear is not relayed on the basis of a number of tangible elements, it is not acceptable. As far as the institutions and contacts between private and academic institutions are concerned, I think Mrs Muylle has given a clear answer. Moreover, in committee, we had already had this discussion about the contacts between these various institutions which are not going to disappear. On the contrary! I think there is a will to work together. Clearly, compromises have been found a little faster in Flanders and I think some of them are on the French side. It is therefore through dialogue that this problem, as far as it is one, will be solved. I'm not going to be much longer. However, I would like to go back to the whole issue of transitional measures. Again, I mean that these transitional measures are not sufficiently clear, that they are far too long in time and that they may not affect the fullness of current practitioners. But in these transitional measures, it was clearly specified by Minister De Block that those who currently have a diploma were taken into account and that those who are currently in the study stage would also be taken into account. Students who begin their studies in September 2016 will also receive special attention. In fact, the minister presented a table at the sitting that reflected these different transitions. I don't think we can be much clearer and more general than that. This means that everyone concerned is and will be taken into account. It was an inescapable requirement for the MR. It's been repeated several times. I say it very openly, Madam Minister. We will be very careful to ensure that all the concerns encountered by each other in the context of these transitional arrangements are taken into account. Finally, is this project, which has been the subject of a number of changes, immutable? The answer is of course no. That's what's interesting too. This is an additional step that allows for a clear position and a law that will be able to come into force. This law can change and I sincerely believe that the Federal Council for Mental Health will also have a say in any future adaptation. We must not fool ourselves, to prevent people who practice today from sometimes playing with the health and future of people, we are putting in place a number of clear beacons. Are we going to solve everything overnight? No, we know very well that some will still be called psycho-practitioners, well-being coaches and any other appellation contrôlée. In the meantime, there is a desire to have a structure, a clear vision, which will not only protect patients but also protect the profession. In conclusion, our group will support this bill because it lays the foundation for the exercise of quality psychotherapy. This project has been coordinated, it does not saucisson psychotherapy, it preserves acquired rights and it will evolve in consultation with the Federal Council for Mental Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u181	Madam President, Minister, a lot has already been said, of course, so I will keep it fairly concise and stick to the essence. The concern for psychological suffering has become an increasing challenge in recent decades. It is the core task of a government to define the framework conditions for providing quality care for patients with mental health problems. The contribution of this draft cannot be underestimated. The design creates a robust framework for the recognition of care providers in mental health care. Contrary to what some fellow Members say, after the entry into force of the law, there will still be a wide range of healthcare providers. First of all, we have the regulation for the future. Clinical psychologists, clinical orthopedagogic doctors and doctors who have received an additional training in psychotherapy will be able to apply psychotherapy in the future. In addition, we provide for particularly wide transitional measures for those who work today, for those who study today or in September start their studies in psychotherapy and even for those who engage in pre-training as a professional within the meaning of the law of 10 May 2015 or another bachelor's programme in September. Those who are professionals will be able to exercise the profession of psychotherapist autonomously. Anyone who has another Bachelor's degree as a pre-training course will exercise his profession under the responsibility of a psychotherapist. The draft law also provides for the possibility of admitting other professionals to psychotherapy training. So there is room for even more diversity. Completely new is the fact that we provide the legal basis for creating supportive mental health professions. In this way, in future, bachelors will also be able to take their place in the care of people with mental illness. We see that doctors and dentists are today asking for support professions because the workload is too high. The same applies to mental health care. There, too, there is a great need and, therefore, the demand for support professions which can carry out specific tasks. So I am not afraid that these support professions will not be there. From the opposition, diversity is often confused with quality. In physical medicine, we all find it obvious that there is evidence-based work, that the training is sufficiently robust and that there is a hierarchy in the tasks of the caregivers in function of their obtained diploma. That's what we're going through in psychic medicine. Patients with mental needs are also entitled to mental health care based on evidence-based practices. This design therefore strengthens a number of quality conditions. The design strengthens pre-training for psychotherapists because it is essential that the psychotherapist has a broad knowledge and can therefore recognise underlying problems and refer them appropriately to care providers with another specialty, including colleagues with a specialty in physical health care. The design introduces the professional internship for clinical psychologists and clinical orthopedagogics because we believe that there is insufficient practical experience in the current training to provide quality care. We introduce a staged system of who may or may not practice autonomous psychotherapy, taking into account pre-training. Moreover, working under responsibility does not require the physical presence of the person responsible for the therapy. It should rather be seen as a multidisciplinary cooperation. We introduce psychotherapy into the law of 10 May 2015. This provides the government with the necessary tools to take the charlatans out of care. Clinical psychologists, clinical orthopedagogic doctors and doctors are caught by the law on healthcare professions and are therefore also subject to the control and sanction possibilities of this law. In this design, we no longer mention the currents within psychotherapy. We think that in a health care domain that is still in full development, it would not be wise to record currents in a law and therefore to pin care providers on a flow. Based on the patient's needs, the psychotherapist should be able to apply those techniques that will have an effect on the patient, regardless of the flow to which the technique belongs. Moreover, the accusation that private institutions should no longer be used is not correct. By concluding cooperation agreements with colleges and universities, they will be included in mainstream education. In all honesty, I can only see benefits for these private institutions. Cooperation offers an important opportunity for upgrading and allows them to offer their students recognised diplomas. The cooperation between colleges and universities and private institutions should ensure that the future psychotherapist receives both theoretical and practical training that will enable the patient to receive high-quality care. This draft also solves some of the practical problems that have arisen with regard to the Federal Council. From three guesses we go to one council with three banks. We provide for the possibility of a minority position and solve the problem of the absence of clinical orthopedagogues in Wallonia by working with clinical orthopsychologists. It is a pity that some have made this subject a Community debate. However, I note that there is no such contradiction in the faculties of medicine in Flanders and Wallonia. That's where reason clearly won over the emo. I therefore conclude that this design draws the map of the patient in mental health care. Based on the patient's right to a high-quality mental health care, the design creates the necessary conditions for training for clinical psychologists and clinical orthopedagogues and for the pre-training and training of the psychotherapists. This dossier has a long history in Parliament. We are finalising the legal framework today. Now the way is open for the debate on reimbursement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u182	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law fills us with fear that the wealth of psychotherapy methods in our country will fall, just at a time when we are getting a lot of signals from society that psychotherapy and counselling are absolutely necessary and that we need them very much. In our group's view, the fragmentation of the mental health landscape is the biggest problem, especially since the psychotherapist will no longer be a profession as such. The 2014 law wanted to respond to the broad influx of psychotherapists and that aspect is now completely abolished. Madam Minister, you are planning broad transitional measures, but they are not really changing them very much. Let us be clear: we too want the charlatans out. But we were and are of the opinion that the 2014 law provided sufficient guarantees to that effect. I would even like to stress that our group is particularly concerned about the quality of care that the patient is entitled to. The quality of care was guaranteed in the 2014 law: the many conditions that were laid down at the time were clearly a guarantee of quality. For each patient there was customized care and an offer. The 2014 law was a guarantee for that. Now we are in danger of cutting the supply of care on the market, just when we hear more about burn-out, about depression, about suicide. Is that even justified? With regard to the functioning of doctors, I refer to a recent press article indicting that 1 in 10 patients do not understand their doctor and that the patient is mainly dependent on himself. This bill now stipulates that treating general practitioners, more than can normally be expected from a general practitioner, will have to act as psychologists for their patients. The transitional measures mean that the therapists are placed under a form of supervision. These are therapists who often have a lot of experience and knowledge, through appropriate training. They followed it. They have a lot of concrete experience. Those therapists will now be placed under the supervision of a colleague with perhaps much less experience in that area. We think that is a little absurd. Finally, a bachelor is eventually completely excluded from the profession, while the current situation shows that it often offers tailor-made care. Madam Minister, the draft law seems to be written to the attention of certain professions and of certain interest groups in order to exclude other groups from the profession. We are very sorry about that. That's kind of throwing away the kid with the bathwater.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u183	Madam Chair, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, earlier I interrupted Mr. Thiéry by saying that the bill that we are going to be working on is a particularly important subject. And I'd like to start with that. When speaking to professionals, or even simply when it comes to mental health, you don't talk to yourself, you don't just care about someone who's having problems, and you're talking to someone who's going to try to help him overcome his difficulties and start a psychotherapeutic process. We are really talking about the foundations of the organization of society. How are we going to accept that someone, at some point, behaves differently? In what way are we going to integrate that our functioning of society also has an effect on how someone feels good in his or her skin or feels bad? And how will it be allowed to continue to participate in our society? In what way will we accept that people will remain different from others throughout their lives without waiting for them to conform to an ideal image, an image of individuals? That's what we're also dealing with through a bill that deals with psychotherapy. That is why it is really important, in the discussions that we have had in committee, as well as those that we have now, to ask ourselves also about the basis, the consequences and the meanings of the measures that are proposed here. So that's right, I'm going to go back to the 2014 law. Not because a law passed at a given time must always remain the same throughout the years, but because it was the result of 15 years of reflection, of work, of sometimes conflicting relations between different actors, between different currents. And if we got to that law, it was because we managed to identify the elements that could bring us all together around quality stakeholders, to help people in a psychotherapeutic process. Fifteen years of participatory work that led to a law. I am not going to take up all the elements of this law but, nevertheless, some, of which Mr Thiéry I think, said that the white card of the twelve university professors proposed that, even more than a master, one had to be a doctoral student in order to be a psychotherapist. In the 2014 law, we required that we have a bachelor's degree, a further bridge training of at least one year at university level, and at least four years of theoretical training, practical training and supervision. It's much more than a master's degree and it's almost the equivalent of a doctorate. I cannot therefore accept the arguments that the quality and training requirements of the 2014 law were insufficient, that they need to be strengthened and that it is for this reason that we are creating a new law. The arguments that make sense, even if I do not share them, are that we are going to make a selection of the people who are going to give these trainings and that the emphasis will therefore be on very specific actors, namely universities and, to the point of rigour, higher schools, and on how this training will be given. In any case, this is not a better quality, a better level and better requirements. The other argument used to advance a necessary change in the 2014 law is that psychotherapists were actually recognized but not included in the law that contains the list of health professionals. Clinician psychologists and orthopedagogues were there but not psychotherapists. I would like to recall the precautionary principle that guided this alternative. We were, at the time, with professionals already trained, already recognized, who were doctors, psychiatrists, clinical psychologists, orthopedagogues. Then we were with a new category of stakeholders: psychotherapists, about which we put requirements in terms of skills to acquire, in terms of personal development to carry out, in terms of number of hours, days of supervision and training in the field. And we have assigned advisory bodies to determine what the criteria could consist of, which we would use to determine whether a person had acquired the skills. These skills were clearly detailed. Training centres could be universities, colleges and specialized centres. But also in this respect, we had to determine precisely the requirements we had for these training places. It seemed to me legitimate to say – and this still seems to me legitimate – that it was up to the councils composed of university professors, the representatives of the profession and the therapists trained in the various disciplines to define these requirements correctly and precisely so as to be able to accept and recognize psychotherapists and centres. As long as it was not done, it was prudent to recognize them as professionals but to include them later in the list of health professionals. This did not prevent the reimbursement of mental health care, an argument put forward now to amend the law. Another argument is that it is thanks to the introduction of psychotherapeutic services in the law of 2015, formerly royal decreed in 1978, that things are possible! In the 2014 law there were positive and interesting elements, arguments to say that we had to change it that I cannot share in view of what I am developing here. With regard to the transition, it is said that there was no transitional phase in the 2014 law. It was organized differently than what is provided for in the current law. But there was a case-by-case review of each on the basis of criteria that would have been defined. On a case-by-case basis, an assessment would have been made as to whether the candidate was appropriate, whether he or she had acquired the required skills, whether the training had been completed in a centre, or whether he or she needed further training. Not everyone was recognized as ex officio, but a path was allowed so that those who did not meet the requirements could comply with it. It was therefore not necessary, Madam Minister, to change the spirit of the law to meet the concerns that you say you want to pursue today. You can change it because you have another philosophy, another orientation. It is your right and I criticize it, but the arguments put forward to say that it was necessary to do so are in any case not valid for the examination and analysis of this 2014 law. Another element is that no one wanted to set up the bridge, no one wanted to set up this academic year or this year that allowed to acquire the skills, skills and prerequisites necessary to be able to begin specific psychotherapy training. It's a little upside down. There is not always consistency in the attitude towards institutions and universities, which sometimes provide training that requires recognition. This is still the case with orthopedagogues which existed only in a Community before being recognised. Your law makes it possible to assimilate clinicians, orthopedagogues for a period of time, etc. In fact, creating confusion. Osteopaths are a problem because some universities do not want to do this kind of training. So we don't recognize osteopaths. And then, here, because universities don't want to organize a bridge year, we don't recognize and change the whole system. If there was a clear position on the conditions, they would have adapted their program. In fact, many universities are able to follow course modules and complete basic training, even if it is true that some do not respect Bologna or the fact that someone who comes from a high school and has another training to complete can access a master's year or a completed training without requiring him to redo the whole course. But we must not enter this game if we want training actors and psychotherapy actors who are correct and have a societal vision and of general interest. What we put in the law was serious. It's swept away like it doesn't make any sense anymore. The title of psychotherapist as a professional title is withdrawn. There will be no more professionals who can call themselves psychotherapists. There is recognition of the doctor, recognition of the clinician psychologist, recognition of the clinician orthopedagogue. And then, they will specialize and apply a specific treatment from time to time, which will be called psychotherapeutic treatment. Where's the logic? Where is the logic when high-quality training is required? Where is the logic that the most qualified is ultimately not recognized as a professional? There's something I don't understand either. You focus on basic training and consider that it is basic training that will ensure that the psychotherapist will, yes or no, be a quality psychotherapist, rather than putting the emphasis, all the energy and all the demands, in this specific training, that must be long and accompanied by a personal development work. Because the psychotherapist obviously cannot manipulate the person facing him. He cannot be trapped in the relationship, in relation to his own history and personal development. This is where the quality requirement of the future psychotherapist must be important. And I regret that these quality guarantees are not included in the bill. This confusion between basic training and specialized training in quality requirements is likely to cause damage. In the same way, among the requirements mentioned in the law, without any clear definition, there is a reference to internships, places of approved internships, rather than keeping practical training organised by a training institute (university, specialized institute or other). The training process would involve supervision, going back and forth between the field and the analysis of what happened, reflections on how the psychotherapist lived and analyzed the situation, returning to the field. These are elements that are foreign to an internship. It is really high-level vocational training that must be done by combining an approach of another type. And in your project, you confuse an internship with this approach. On the other hand, you say in the law that "by-laws will define the criteria for traineeships and traineeships". I really wish you good luck in identifying this if it is not linked to a formative approach and training institutes. In the arguments that you put forward to justify the interest of this new law, we can join you on the possibility of paying more for mental health care. It is true that the needs of people who are unwell, experiencing difficult times, suffering abuse or suffering at work are becoming increasingly acute and are not alien to the functioning and way of organizing our society, our economic life and the requirements of normalisation vis-à-vis citizens. Your law does not include a refund mechanism. So we don't know what will be refunded and how high. On the other hand, by reading your project between the lines, we understand that, for the benefit to be possible and eventually reimbursed, it will take a journey of care. This will be based on a single method. At times, you have expressed yourself by specifying a number of benefits for such situations experienced by people in difficulty. It is therefore another approach to health care, which uses the possibility of reimbursement to organize them in a way that conditions people to have to respect what is expected of them in exchange for care. Another way to seduce or, in any case, pass the pill is through the methods you have chosen to recognize current providers during the transition phase. I will not repeat all the criticisms that have been made. If I wanted to be a cartoonist, I would say that almost everything will be possible to those who are already exercising. I regret that, whatever their way of working, they will be able to continue to exercise. It is not that, to organize a transition phase by guaranteeing quality and fighting against those who would dishonestly practice. A transition period is a provision that first recognizes the quality of the claimants and then allows them to continue their activities. Here, it's quite different. Mr Thiéry's argument is that those who do not have basic training in the health professions will be placed under supervision and will not be autonomous. This is the guarantee given to patients. At the same time, this supervision will not imply that we will follow it all the time. He will have to work in multidisciplinary teams. Nor is the manner in which this will be done detailed. Obviously, it is interesting to look at each other from different backgrounds and approaches. But this is not the way to guarantee the psychotherapist's autonomy of functioning and to guarantee quality care. Here, too, there are confusions, references to modes of practice that are alien to the content of the text and which are a little to show that quality is aimed at regardless of the requirements of quality of training and psychotherapy. I very much regret the abandonment of references to the four currently recognized frameworks: psychoanalytic and psychodynamic orientation, behavioural and cognitivist orientation, systemic and family orientation, and person-centred and experiential orientation. It's impoverishment. As things evolve, there may be another frame of reference, but considering that the current references are outdated and that a good psychotherapist will be effective, able to draw from each orientation and perhaps from other things... and to systematize his approach, is to banalization, an attempt to normalize people that goes against a psychotherapeutic relationship where one must identify with a person the path that he can take to enter the path of change that he wishes. It's a co-built relationship all the time. We'll be far from it if we follow what comes out of this bill. Among the last points I would like to highlight are the references to this famous opinion of the High Council of Hygiene of 2005. Mr Thiéry gave another example earlier: the first fifteen lines are read, and it is as if the other lines had never existed. Ms. Onkelinx quoted Mony Elkaim, who is one of our great masters in systemic analysis and family therapy, who was part of and participated in the Higher Council of Hygiene. You have been reread this opinion which states that it is necessary to have skills and prerequisites at the master level and that if you do not have that level at the beginning, you must acquire certain skills, which he quotes. What we were referring to in the 2014 law was to allow the person to acquire these skills. He stressed the need to identify and recall the diversity of frameworks. He didn't make up fifty. He took over the four recognized executives and indicated the interest that there might be in associating his basic training and psychotherapist training in the name and recognition of the psychotherapist so that the person who consults him knows exactly who he is addressing. This technique of using pieces of advice to justify decisions, you are not the only one in this government to use it. It's a dishonest societally speaking practice. You could have said that this opinion contained other provisions for acquiring skills, that you disagreed and that you took only part of the opinion. It was one thing, and we wouldn't have agreed. But that's not what you're doing. You say that in this document it is such advice that is given, you use it and you comply with it. It's diverting, it's manipulating an opinion, a study that's been done. Mr Borsus, who is here and who is with you today, has done the same for the individualised plan of social integration. You say you rely on a university study and you only take a part of it. Even the authors of the study rebelled and told you that you are deviating the conclusions of their study. The recognized psychiatrists and psychologists who have been part of the Higher Council of Hygiene tell you the same thing. Personally, I think you are deeply dishonest. In this rostrum, some have come to say that some claim that so many jobs will be lost, that they will identify the people concerned because they cannot be misinformed and, ultimately, threaten them with their freedom of speech and reading. If such fears are expressed by some, it is because they have reason to do so. However, the role of a parliamentarian of the majority and the minister is to reassure on the basis of concrete facts. People are worried because they don't know what they're going to be. Let's hear their concerns. Let's answer these people. Let us not say that one will find the one who dared to express his fears in a certain way. As I said, working on mental health also means accepting that people may think otherwise that we interpret things, translate them, and be obliged to accompany them and/or correct the information they have. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u184	The minister told me that she was quoted in an article or notebook in which the number of jobs is mentioned. As far as I'm concerned, I've never talked about the number of jobs because I don't know how many psychotherapists there are and I don't know whether some will lose their jobs either.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u185	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u186	Mr. Thiéry, one of my criticisms of the bill is that, during the transition period, it will allow all psychotherapists to practise their profession, but under this famous non-autonomy status. As far as I am concerned, I prefer a project that clearly states, on the basis of qualities and criteria defined with field specialists, what requirements must be met by providing that those who do not meet them have the opportunity to train and acquire the skills they lack. I'm much more severe than you. Disinformation is not the result of misinformation, but of a lack of clarity in the text, of the concerns of some who know their reality and express their feelings. Try to reassure them rather than set up a people's court to identify who spreads the rumours.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u187	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u188	I didn't understand what you said.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u189	Mrs Gerkens, I am ready to hear everyone's opinion. From there, I am taught lessons about the interpretation of what is being sent as a message and which is a misinformation, it is a little limited. Let's be clear! Unfortunately, I don't have the magazine with me. She's in my office. I read your interview.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u190	I'm not talking about number, no one. I did this interview.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u191	Mrs. Gerkens, when we read your interview, we understand that people can send some disinformation. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u192	Mr. Thiéry, I'm not hiding for my reading. As I said at the beginning of the intervention, I am concerned about this bill. I'm probably more worried than a lot of people here, even among my colleagues, because I have twenty years of social practice. I am well aware of the drifts and problems that can arise through interventions and depending on the organisation of the care, what is expected of these people through their difficulties and the therapies that we want to apply to them. I am aware of the phenomena of exclusion that this can cause. These are concerns that I have expressed and continue to express. Do you want another example of misinformation? I don't blame this gentleman. I will not quote him, even though he is one of the people who supports your bill. It is someone who dares to say that, in training institutes, psychoanalysis is taught in ten weekends a year and that, therefore, it is essential to limit training in psychotherapy in universities because there at least we will have "x time". Moreover, it is expensive: two to three thousand euros for training in these institutes. For this reason, training institutes are concerned. These are interpretations, ways of expressing realities with one's own vision. I don't agree with that person because she's distorting reality. However, I am not going to go on a hunt to pursue it and denounce it. Without going into all the details, you have the analysis and appreciation that I make of this bill. Personally, I am worried about what this will give in terms of the organization of this psychotherapy. I am also concerned about the quality and respect of the patient. I don't think the patient will be there. Today's psychotherapists will become non-autonomous psychotherapists. Clinicians can practice as orthopedagogues. Orthopedagogues can practice as clinician psychologists. General practitioners will be able to do basic psychotherapy, but we don't know what it is. If this does not work, the patient will do more specialized psychotherapy with other specialists. In my opinion, the patient does not have any clearer information or more guarantees as to the quality of the relationship he will build and establish with a psychotherapist, which is essential. These are the objectives we are aiming for.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u193	Madam Chair, Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that this bill profoundly changes the approach to psychotherapy and the meaning of the 2014 Act. Let's be honest! This can be reassuring for patients that psychotherapy is carried out within a health care framework provided that it is based on a tripod with three major components: the first being quality; the second is the multidisciplinary approach (but which must not only involve the doctor) and the third is accessibility. On this third aspect, Madam Minister, I have doubts about the consequences of your project. Recognize this, the findings are worrying in terms of mental health with very worrying trends: the high number of suicides, an alarming increase in the number of admissions to psychiatric institutions and an increasing consumption of antidepressants. Every year, more than two thousand Belgians commit suicide; it's huge. The demand for psychosocial assistance continues to grow. While these findings are alarming for the general population, they are even more so for young people, children and adolescents. Over the period 2012-2014, it is one young person aged 6 to 17 years out of 200 (0.5 per cent) who has been prescribed antidepressants; this is considerable. We are well above the world average and the European average. All these young people on antidepressants, even as we know, psychoeducation and psychotherapy should be preferred to antidepressant drugs in children and adolescents, not to mention all adolescents and young people who are anxious and depressed, this represents overly disturbing figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u194	One of the risks, one of the consequences of your bill in relation to this is that there will be a decrease in the number of psychotherapy recipients since you are clearly narrowing the scope of psychotherapy. So, as a corollary, there will be a decrease in the supply of psychotherapy. The risk is then to send these patients, these young people back to medication treatments. Perhaps you will tell me that tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, the reimbursement of psychotherapy will be an added value for the patient. Yes, it is true: the reimbursement of psychotherapy is an added value for the patient. But I want to answer you, minister, we'll see when, how, and how. Because the KCE had looked at the way in which it could be considered to pay for psychotherapy: these were extremely restrictive arrangements. From there to think that, already, there will be a clear, rapid surplus-value for young or old people who are undergoing psychotherapy and who will be able to get a refund of psychotherapy, there is obviously a world. Is it also worth recalling, Madam Minister, that psychotherapy in a number of structures and services is already being proposed in a way that is excessively accessible in terms of funding? I am thinking in particular of youth support services, family planning, mental health services and just a few of them. Changing this law for the future is one thing. But where I have a difficulty, ladies and gentlemen – and I think I have told you very clearly in committee – this is the way in which you take little account of the psychotherapists who already practice today by not allowing them to practice independently tomorrow for those who are not clinician psychologists, who are not clinician orthopedagogues and who are not doctors. I find that this way in which you take them little into consideration is quite challenging. Let's call a cat a cat. You are simply demolishing the psychotherapists who are exercising today. They will no longer be able to exercise autonomously tomorrow. Kind of like they're all charlatans. I think I have to remind you here that there are psychotherapists who exercise with quality and rigour. They acquired expertise at the patient's bedside, in direct contact, without necessarily having had training as a clinician psychologist, clinician orthopedagogue or doctor. Because, yes, Madam Minister, the expertise that is developed at the patient's bedside is just as important, as it is especially known in health care, as training. So you're going to tell me "no current psychotherapists can continue to practice, there are a lot of transitional arrangements." No, the minister will no longer be able to continue to practice autonomously, I say again and again, if they are not doctors, clinical psychologists or orthopedagogues clinicians. And better than all the theoretical discussions, I would like to illustrate my point with two realities on the ground. It's not fiction, it's lived situations. I take as the first example the case of a psychotherapist, a woman, who has been working in an independent office for about 30 years. It carries out high-quality work there. She works closely with two psychiatrists who refer their patients to her, send their patients to her in a number of cases. So they trust her more than they trust her because they work in interaction with her. With this bill, everything will change for this psychotherapist. Because on the basis of the law, which I have read, reread in every direction, she will no longer be able to practice autonomously. Imagine! While there are two psychiatrists who refer patients to her - so it is not one, a charlatan - she will no longer be able to exercise autonomously. You will tell me that she will be able to exercise in a supervised manner. But this legislation, the minister, does not provide that this psychotherapist can be supervised by these psychiatrists because these psychiatrists are not psychotherapists and do not want to take 70 additional credits, as provided for in the bill, and to take new additional training as a psychotherapist. So, who will be the losers of this story? In this example, of course, it is the patients. Second example I would like to share with you here. Again, it's a reality on the ground, it's not fiction. These are the situations of the various services for which psychotherapists work, and I am thinking of services for youth support, help for people, mental health and sometimes also some hospitals and even family planning. A psychotherapist who works in a family schedule explained his reality to me. He exercises psychotherapy in a multidisciplinary approach. He works as a team, in contact with different realities, be it patients or heavy psychosocial contexts. But none of the colleagues he works with in his team is psychotherapist under the new conditions of your law. None. As a result, tomorrow he will no longer be able to practise independently and will have to either be supervised by a doctor, for example, who would agree to train in psychotherapy in a complementary way, which is not necessarily the case, Madam Minister; or the team will have to hire a psychotherapist from outside, or even deprive himself of this psychotherapist to hire another who, on the terms of the law, will be able to exercise psychotherapy independently. These are two examples. I could give you more. These examples are particularly illustrative of the reality of a number of psychotherapists who are already active but to whom you are barring the autonomous practice of psychotherapy - and I repeat this again - despite, very often, a long practice, an expertise that is developed in contact with the patient. The supervision that you also impose by this bill is not defined at all. And by the way, it is now subject to multiple interpretations. Some were expressed in committee. I have heard news here, not to mention the ones we hear in the press. A parliamentarian of your majority is talking about control. We even talk about multidisciplinary practice, without knowing again what kind of practice. We still do not know whether these psychotherapists will be able to continue to practise in office with independent status and continue their current practice, not to mention the questions of civil and criminal responsibilities that have remained unanswered in committee. Supervision is not defined. We're talking about intervision, which is not defined either. There is no agreement or anything to establish this supervision. The issues of civil and criminal responsibilities remain full and complete. I have come to committee and come back to plenary because I have put forward two proposals to move this project forward on two aspects. The first is to open an additional door for psychotherapists who are already practising today and who, on the basis of the bill, will no longer be able to practise independently. This additional door, of course, is also so that we can make the difference and we can recognize that there are differences between charlatans and psychotherapists who exercise with quality. For, basically, today, the bill does not differentiate between charlatans and psychotherapists who do not enter into the new conditions to practice independently, since tomorrow it will be "supervised" to be able to continue its activity. And since supervision is not defined, it opens the door to any kind of so-called supervision. I therefore propose that an individual examination be carried out of the file, of initial training, of continuing training, of expertise, an examination of the experiences in contact with the patient, also in relation to multidisciplinary practices. As a reminder, many psychotherapists who will no longer be able to practise in autonomous practice tomorrow work with a multidisciplinary approach. And on the basis of this file review, as was the case in transition periods for other health professionals, they will be able to be recognized and have an autonomous practice of psychotherapy. In this way, all those who have trained and have this expertise in contact with the patient would see the quality of their work recognized and would be respected. I know some of them who have practiced psychotherapy for twenty or thirty years, as I reminded you right away through an example. It is a minimum in terms of respect for their competence. In a transitional way, we should be able to recognise all those who are already exercising today. These are procedures, Madam Minister, which are not complicated and which have already proved their worth in terms of quality and patient protection. The second proposal that I resubmit here in plenary is to define what you mean by "supervision". You're gonna tell me that we'll do all this later by arrest. At the same time, there is nothing in the law in this regard. In my view, a clear legal basis should be laid, not on all the modalities – this can be specified by a royal decree – by establishing a convention – I do not stop at words, because I remain open to any proposal in this matter – between the psychotherapist and the person who will assume the supervision. This is to avoid, Madam Minister, in the event of a serious situation, such as a therapeutic accident, major legal procedures being initiated because no one has defined who assumes civil or criminal responsibility. Letting this be blurred – something that I have never seen in terms of health care organisation – and not basing this supervision on any legal basis risks provoking legal procedures tomorrow. For all these reasons, we shall abstain from this text except, of course, ladies and gentlemen, if we can reconsider the various points which I have mentioned here and which I have already mentioned in committee. You, the minister, in committee, first opened the door to the possibility, on the basis of the individual examination of psychotherapists who already practiced today, through an examination of their dossier training, continuing training and expertise in contact with the patient, to recognize them also access to the practice of psychotherapy independently. Then, for reasons that are beyond my control, and which I believe are the majority, you refused to move forward in this context. I'm sorry. I regret it even more in relation to psychotherapists who are not all charlatans, even though they are not clinician psychologists, doctors or orthopedagogues because, yes, there are also psychotherapists who do not initially have this training but who have been practicing for many years, with a practice of quality and rigour. In fact, those who are often the first to recognize it are also psychiatrists who work in close connection or in more indirect connection with these patients or young people. For them, I think it would have been logical, in a transitional way, to allow them to practice autonomously in the future. That's too bad. You didn't allow us to move in that direction. It was an additional open door because the transitional provisions you have provided for do exist, but unfortunately do not allow them to be recognised. Above all, it is up to all to demote them, regardless of the work they do, including quality work. This is tantamount to demolishing all of them by not allowing them to practice autonomously.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u195	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we know that psychotherapy, as a specialization, is more developed in the south of the country than in the north. This is not a problem in itself, if consensus is possible when it comes to common arrangements such as recognition of professional qualifications. We know that compromise is possible in this case. This was demonstrated in the previous legislature. The law of 4 April 2014 may not have been technically perfect, but it had at least the merit of a consensus. Even before it came into force, this consensus broke out. It is no longer a question of recognizing the title of psychotherapist, but of reducing psychotherapy to a strictly medical act. In fact, the majority has aligned themselves with what the N-VA wanted since the start. The MR, who had voted against the amendments of the N-VA in 2014, now returns his jacket with a disconcerting natural, as this gesture becomes familiar to him. Angry psychotherapists recall the remarks made by Daniel Bacquelaine in plenary session, while he was still a group leader in January 2014, and I quote: "We accept and recognize... "
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u196	Mrs Caprasse, what you're saying is very interesting. So you're saying that a number of angry people are reminding... I actually received these e-mails. Does that mean, if I understand correctly, that Mrs Onkelinx and Mrs Gerkens did not receive these e-mails, but that you received them? It's very strange.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u197	I got e-mails.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u198	All right. I'll stay here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u199	I've received e-mails from discontented people, yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u200	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u201	They have the addresses of all the deputies. It's a normal reaction, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u202	(...) We have been flooded with e-mails of discontent. Mr. Thiéry, I think you have a problem with your mailbox.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u203	I'll take my quote back. "We accept and recognize that an opening should be considered in order to allow people who have followed different paths to have access to psychotherapy training. We insist that persons holding a bachelor's degree, for example, should indeed have the opportunity to attend an additional university-type training programme - the law now provides - prior to specific training in psychotherapy." And I now refer to Mr Thiéry's statement, which now represents the MR group in the Committee on Public Health. I quote from the report at first reading of this bill: "An opening had been envisaged under the previous legislature to allow persons who have followed a course other than a master's degree in psychology or a doctorate in medicine to have access to training in psychotherapy. In the absence of a political consensus to follow this path, the panel took note and defended the legislative guarantees of rigorous, transparent and verifiable training." I regret that the MR took this position. Of course, Madam Minister and ladies and gentlemen, we agree that it is essential to protect people in psychological distress from charlatans of all kinds and that the quality of therapeutic care must be guaranteed. But do psychotherapists with eight-year training not offer a guarantee of quality? Is psychotherapy a medical act, as this bill advocates, really a guarantee of quality? We seriously doubt that. Bringing psychotherapy into evidence based medicine dehumanizes this therapy which nevertheless treats the human. Taking care of psychism involves not only acquiring knowledge of the psychic mechanisms and its pathologies, but also, according to the chosen therapeutic option, training in the techniques of intervention of the latter. Furthermore, becoming a psychotherapist implies personal psychological work, which obviously cannot be requested by a university open to all. It is the various responsible training institutes that select candidates for training, based not only on their academic degree but also on their personal abilities to approach human psychism in all its complexity. In an open letter addressed in despair to the Prime Minister, more than 250 professional training institutions, as well as university teachers and high schools, denounce the reductive vision of mental health that you want to impose today. They explain in particular the importance of maintaining the four psychotherapeutic currents recognized by the Higher Committee of Hygiene: psychoanalytic and pschodynamic orientation, behavioral and cognitive, systemic and family or humanistic, person-centred and experential. They explain this diversity of approaches and specific trainings that make it possible to better meet the personal needs of patients and that the further training of psychotherapists often lasts at least four years in addition to basic training. They also denounce the lack of consultation or rather the consultation focused on only part of the professionals and the rejection of the consensus achieved in 2014. We support their call and hope that the government does not simply reject the wealth that can be offered by diversifying the provision of mental health care at a time when burn outs and other disorders generated by an increasingly anxious society are exploding. It is with determination that we will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u204	Mr President, Minister, I have a number of criticisms of your proposal. My first point of criticism, perhaps most importantly, is the lack of dialogue with the various groups linked to your proposal. I have just heard that Mr Thiéry's mailbox has a spam function, which allowed him to classify all the mails vertically. This is a letter signed by 250 associations active in the sector. You can't miss that, can you? What do they say about the lack of dialogue? I quote from their letter, which they addressed directly to the Prime Minister because they felt there was little point in addressing the Minister of Health: "The Minister's bill was drafted in a discreet, not to say collusive manner. Only part of the professionals seem to be heard, while the others always found a closed door on their way. As an example, we can refer to the fact that no reply was given to the 70 representatives of institutions who addressed the Minister in February with a memorandum on rigorous psychotherapy concerned patients. 22 000 signatures were also collected to request a dialogue. I quote the Platform des Professionnels de Santé Mentale in French: "The minister's office attachés received once members of the French-language psychotherapy dome. They asked which associations the persons present were affiliated with and the Minister considered that these associations had been consulted when they did not represent them and were not mandated." So my first point of criticism, Madam Minister, is that I do not think there has been enough dialogue with the various interest groups on this difficult issue. I come to my second point of criticism. First of all, let me be clear: we are in favour of scientific training for psychotherapists. Now it is often not possible for patients to know who to choose and what to expect, and that often leads to malpractice. There is also a great deal of uncertainty among professionals. All kinds of courses are offered. There is even one who promises a recognised diploma through distance learning. The registration costs for such courses amount to thousands of euros, without the students having an insight into what they get in return. I think it's important to separate the chaff from the corn. I shall now turn to the draft law itself. Many low-threshold professions are excluded from recognition as psychotherapists. I think that's a problem. I'm thinking psychiatric nurses or social assistants. They are usually more familiar with the subculture of various population groups and with the social problems that can form the background to many mental problems. We think it's perfect that someone with an evidence-based bachelor's degree, for example for social nursing, combined with the right therapy training, can give a good therapy. By the way, we have many in our medical practice of Medicine for the People. Now all these people are excluded in advance. Evidence-based research, and this is my main point, shows that the relationship between the patient and the aid worker is crucial. This relationship between the patient and the one who helps him is really crucial. That relationship is crucial for a better therapeutic effect. The better this relationship and the more trust in it is, the better the health effect, regardless of the form of psychotherapy, whether it is cognitive therapy, system therapy or psychoanalysis. What's important is the relationship. These are studies that demonstrate, even in evidence based, that the link is at least as important as the type of diploma. Here, we reduce everything to diplomas. And it's evidence-based studies that can show it. Behind an evidence-based approach, we are standardizing everything on two or three types of diplomas. That does not seem to me to be the right approach. From the evidence-based findings it should be possible to define in dialogue with the occupational groups when a psychotherapist is eligible for a refund. For example, those who have more than ten years of professional experience can be said to have good patient-helping relationships. As a transitional measure, psychotherapists should also be eligible for reimbursement, even if they do not fulfil the basic condition, such as basic training as doctors or clinical psychologists. I come to my third point. Madam Minister, she was not yet on the agenda, but the reimbursement, also an important element, borders on this dossier. There is a great deal of uncertainty as to whether the refund remains in the same envelope. Today we are faced with the reduction of many beds in mental health care. It cannot be the intention to give the money by one hand, and to take it away from mental health care with the other. Our society is facing enormous challenges in this area and we will have to invest in it. Minister, therefore, the PTB will not vote on this bill. I see that it affects you. That is also my case. The most important message we have been trying to convey is that there are so many people who are now practicing psychotherapy with unquestionably results. If your goal is to work with evidence based medicine, you're right. But in this case, all psychotherapy should be involved. And do not rely on an a priori to classify people who, today, do services! We support a more systematic approach. Indeed, we cannot allow charlatans, the first comers to self-declare psychotherapists. But to do this, rely on evidence based medicine and not on an a priori which, in fact, centralizes everything at the level of the universities of our country and does not allow a plurality of therapies. In conclusion, the PTB will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u205	There are no more speakers. The government will have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u206	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking all the members of the Health Committee for the more than thorough discussions for more than twelve hours in two sessions, which we have devoted to this draft. I would also like to thank Mrs Muylle for her more than thorough report on those two readings. I have also pointed out on several occasions in proposing this draft law that the 2014 law has taken a major step forward in the recognition of the healthcare professions concerned. However, some adjustments were needed to implement the law. This is my responsibility to make additional adjustments to ensure the patient's quality of care. What's positive for the patient? What has that law changed for the people on the ground now? After seventeen years, there is the long-awaited but above all necessary recognition of clinical psychologists and clinical orthopedagogues. That's about almost 20,000 people on the premises. There is also the recognition of doctors, who, subject to additional training, have chosen to do so as a health care profession. This ensures a more quality mental health care tailored to the patient's needs and needs. Of course, this will go hand in hand with better accessibility. The existing visibility of these recognised groups in the field of work, the high level of expertise and the daily professional commitment they give for many years without recognition is now finally being validated. The definition of the competence of clinical psychologist and clinical orthopedagogue is entirely in line with the existing care models in the facilities, both federally and within the Communities. It also gives the various governments a chance to really think about how they can pursue a more accessible affordable mental health care. Without recognition, we can't go to a refund. This is a next step. The next step is the reimbursement of mental care. We have already invested a lot in mental health care. That was also necessary, because that was a very underrated terrain. We will continue to do so and in the long term we will seek the means, if everything is settled after this law has been passed. The law also finally provides a framework for support professions in mental health care. The provision of the law allows professional bachelors, who are currently outside the law on the exercise of health care professions but in the psychosocial domain, to be given a place within mental health care. This is a real valorisation for all kinds of people with titles that have been touched here, all kinds of bachelors in the sphere of psychology and pedagogy. Indeed, the law lays down, and Mrs Muylle has pointed out, very broad transitional measures for persons who are already in psychotherapy and even for students who are studying psychotherapy. By way of derogation from the principle that psychotherapy can only be exercised by a doctor, a clinical psychologist or a clinical orthopedagogue, the design provides for very broad acquired rights for pre-existing psychotherapy practitioners. I have raised all these positive points to say, like some Members, that it is actually a law designed to improve the quality of mental care for the patient. I think that's why it's all about. Changes have indeed been made to the original design. That was necessary, because there was, among other things, a procedure before the Constitutional Court, which was rightly instituted by the orthopedagogics. That's what we remediated. Amendments were also needed, because the Federal Council, as provided for in the original text, was not at all applicable. The parity could not be guaranteed because there are no titles of orthopedagogy in the French-speaking part of the country. That Federal Council is very important, because it will have a lot of tasks. We want to put it together very quickly. In addition, psychotherapy remains an important part of the patient's treatment. She is given a specific place in the law on the exercise of health care professions, which at the same time makes psychotherapy more valuable. In the past, the profession was not recognised, but the practitioner was authorized. What was an authorization, however, was not known and could not be given. Training was described in the form of switching programmes, but it has never been put into practice; specializations have been described, but universities have never been able to offer them. Now we choose more evidence-based mental health. Evidence is becoming increasingly important for mental health care. One can make treatment choices based on available scientific information taking into account the patient's question and the expertise of the treating therapist. The fact that the law on the exercise of health care professions did not apply to psychotherapy was contrary to the whole of the reform, some of which you have implemented, Mrs Onkelinx. I place psychotherapy within the law on the exercise of health professions, where it belongs. She remains an important and well-defined part of psychology, pedagogy and psychiatry. So she is what she is, a treatment form. That is also said by the Knowledge Centre. Indeed, we have not followed all but the most important recommendations of the Supreme Court. We have consulted a great many people. The text is also in line with European directives. Moreover, the Council of State did not make any comments on this matter. I have already said that it is a good thing for the patient, because it will have to respect the law on patients' rights. The provincial medical committees will be able to take effective action against practices that harm the patient. They couldn't do that before. Accessibility improves as well as the quality of care. Mr Hedebouw, when one comes to someone, one can trust that he has the right skills. So the chaff is separated from the chaff. As Mrs Hufkens stated, for more than one reason, the 2014 law was not applicable. It's been remediated. With regard to the discussion about supervision and whether or not it can function autonomously, it is clear that we do not really see supervision as a purely physical relationship. That has been said several times in committee. The supervision can also mean that a patient was referred, that a staff meeting is held about a case or that there is a feedback. That is the reality, Mrs Fonck, on the ground. Multidisciplinary work is already under way. If you say there is no such thing, you ignore reality on the ground. It has also been said on several occasions that final responsibility always lies with the supervisor because he has to ensure that the law on the exercise of health care professions is properly respected. It is a surprise to me that the opposition wants to cause so much concern on the ground and is opposed to a huge improvement in the organisation of mental health care. Some of us have worked hard to do that in the past. But it can happen. Mrs Somers stressed the added value of this draft with regard to the quality of health care and cooperation in the field of education in institutions, colleges and universities. Mrs Muylle also referred to this. This cooperation does indeed provide academic support. That wasn't there before. If an institution provides an education and there is no link to a college or university, there is no academic support in that training either. This is essential because psychotherapy is also an evolving form of medicine. This design rightly puts the patient at the centre of attention. When I hear that there is fear and uncertainty, I ask what fear and uncertainty there was in an area in which seventeen years of hard work were worked by all people and in which there has never been recognition of the fact that clinical psychology, psychotherapy and orthopedagogy were in the health care sector. Mrs Gerkens, you said you were going to be a caricature. That is your right, but I think this is far too important to make a caricature of it. The relationship between the aid worker and the patient must, of course, always be professional. There can be a lot of emotion and empathy, but it must always remain a professional relationship and everyone knows that. What are additional values for the patient? In addition to improved accessibility, there will now be continuity of care. There will have to be continuity of care and there will also be waiting services where the patient can go if he suddenly feels worse. In the long run, there will be a refund for psychological care. How can one achieve better accessibility than by recognising these professions which have been delayed for far too long by all kinds of circumstances? When I came to this Chamber in 1999, people were already talking about it. That was 17 years ago. I would have been delighted to have seen that this could be arranged much earlier. I believe, Mr President, that much has been said and a great deal has been built up. A lot of mistakes have also been made. For example, Mr Hedebouw has referred to a letter from 250 associations, whereas it is actually about a letter from 250 professionals. I am not putting that letter next to me, but I have not read any new element in it. Many untruths have also been found in the mailboxes. I can understand that some people would rather treat this like spam. The patient does indeed have the right to go to a well-educated care provider. I believe that this draft law has been a real step in this direction. I thank all those who have made a constructive contribution. I believe that this is an important step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u207	Madam Minister, I will be brief. First of all, when you tell us that, thanks to this project, you will be able to invest in the reimbursement of psychotherapeutic care, I ask to see! But from what I see, in the health care budgets, you are at the moment constantly engaged in saving money. That is the truth! And it does not seem to me that this is going to stop, given the budgetary debate we had just before it and the austerity orientation of this government. Secondly, you're talking about valuing the profession. You say, "It's still great, we're going to value the profession." It's still strange, it's almost funny, since the profession no longer exists, since we no longer recognize the profession of psychotherapist. These are acts which are recognised and which will be able to be practiced by three professions. You have to be precise and say that you no longer recognize the profession of psychotherapist. So you don't know how to value it. Thirdly, you say we're going to improve the quality. I think it's really going against the reality of the field. As if the vast majority of men and women who practice this profession had not already organized themselves to impose a quality, after years of study and training, organized by the associations themselves. To say that we're going to improve quality is a slap to all those professionals who didn't wait for you to do it. You have not given an answer as to the eventual reduction of a diversified offer, whereas all scientific studies show that what is needed in this area is a diversified offer depending on the specificity of psychotherapy itself. Of course, during the transitional period, you organize it in a strange way. It's going to last for decades. Indeed, students in training will be part of this transitional period. This simply confirms the existence of some difficulties within your majority and that you have found a particularly lame compromise. Of course, given a transitional period of this magnitude, it is necessary to be precise as to how it should be organised. And in this regard, several speakers spoke about this transitional period and the protection of the patient during this transitional period. We have not received a concrete response. You have talked about evidence based, but explain why you feel that evidence based must also apply for the particularity of psychotherapy! I have not heard any arguments at all. You don't recognize the profession anymore. You have a few small problems about that. More empowerment, it is the Council of State that also emphasises this! And by that, there is no longer a way to impose, as we can do when we recognize a profession, a protection for patients. You say that provincial medical commissions could potentially intervene in cases of complaints, for example. But it's not just that. I have often given the example of a doctor who has been trained to become a psychotherapist. By the very fact that you don't recognize the profession, it can do psychotherapy once in a while, that's enough. He does not need to have regular practice, with continuous training. This obviously runs counter to the quality of the offer in psychotherapy. Finally, you say you are really disappointed, because the opposition has, in a way, used the professionals, misinformed them. That's why they don't agree! You're infantilizing associations! What do you think they're doing? It is contempt for them to believe that they are unaware of the reality of their profession and what you are proposing for the future. What is this? This shows that you should have taken a more personal interest in this matter. You should have received them personally, dared to discuss with them and listened to their arguments, which you did not do. As I said earlier in my speech, you were extremely disappointing in this respect and I can tell you that you confirmed it in your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u208	Some of the elements that the minister cited, which we have not or have not talked about, relate to bachelor's degrees. It is true that in the bill, a small section states that these bachelors may be recognized as mental health support professionals and may perform certain acts prescribed to them by other professionals who will meet the criteria of the law. I don't think it's the reality of those bachelors called assistants in psychology. And since evil is not yet done in this area, it will be important for you to see with them how to characterize the interest of their profession, their contributions, their way of exercising, so as to recognize them in their abilities and to be able to design work within care teams without necessarily creating hierarchy between these professionals. That is something that you have mentioned on several occasions in committee. Even if there are autonomous and non-autonomous people, I do not create a hierarchy: multidisciplinary work is a work between different partners, there is not one that is hierarchically superior to the others. That said, in some speeches by members of the majority, I have heard the word "hierarchy", saying that it is logical to make hierarchy, since it is the one who has the strongest competence that lies at the top of it. Interpretations, readings, and ways of translating this project are multiple and diverse because there is not enough clarity. If it were a 100% readable text, there would be no different interpretations. As far as evidence based medicine is concerned, the most disturbing element, Madam Minister, is the current abuse of this concept. How do we build it? How are these practices, which are considered scientifically proven on the basis of international literature, based on the most numerous, collected practices that achieve the right results? The founders themselves of evidence based medicine are beginning to question themselves. We know that it is obviously those who are most organized, the most powerful, the most productive who will produce the references that will become the most numerous and who will say what are the best practices. This runs counter to a work which obviously is based on criteria and references. Psychotherapy even from the beginning is scientific but it is human science. It's not chemistry or biology. The social sciences have their specificities and their interest. By working and building in a structured, thoughtful, intelligent way, it is possible to have quality care without entangled them in a definition, a concept, a way of doing that will be the most dominant which, therefore, often, do not want to change their practice. As far as patient law and provincial control boards are concerned, if the fact that the patient understands what is happening to him or her, understands who he or she is in relation to, depended solely on this ability to control through provincial commissions, it would be really easy to settle. We wouldn't spend our time here. It's not at that level that things are going on. You know that your bill, or any other bill, does not protect against abuse by people who set up psychotherapists or mental health specialists when they have absolutely no training. In terms of supervision, supervisor responsibility, multidisciplinarity, too, when you hear the different members who defend your project, you realize that the interpretations and descriptions are not the same. The opposition is not a source of concern and there is no misunderstanding or interpretation of the texts. There are readings among us that differ in the values and principles to which we adhere. Fortunately, the sector, health professionals, for their part, know how to read and have the ability to analyze and understand texts. They have the ability to confront them and compare them with their practices on the ground and their societal reflections. It is inherent and inseparable from the exercise of psychotherapy. Therefore, considering that it is our interpretations that fuel the sector's concerns, it is ridiculing this sector and giving us a lot of importance. You say you need empathy and professional relationships. Like my colleagues, I'm joining you and I haven't said anything else. Building a relationship and being able to walk with the person who consults a psychotherapist effectively requires empathy skills but also requires the ability to remain professional in their relationship. What I blame you for is not having put in your bill, for example, as a requirement in the formative path, all that dimension and all that personal work to do in order to be able to both establish an empathic relationship and not enter into a relationship with an emotional dimension, or no longer allow us to take the distance necessary to analyze and meta-analyse what is happening in this relationship and in the process of change. You say that these care professionals must be recognized, but either it is said that it is a form of treatment that can be performed by other health care professionals, or it is said that psychotherapists are recognized as mental health care professionals, and then they are registered as such. But we must stop saying that we must recognize them and then not recognize them. It sows confusion. I am all the more puzzled because you put in your law a requirement for future psychotherapists: they will have to be doctors, clinical psychologists, orthopedagogues. Among the actions that these three professionals can take are diagnosis and treatment. You say you don't want psychotherapists as professionals because psychotherapy is only the part of treatment and you can't diagnose, while those who can exercise psychotherapy can diagnose by their basic profession. There are really intellectual inconsistencies in your text. Nevertheless, there are two positive elements in your answer. You say that not all the opinions of the Supreme Council of Hygiene have been followed. I'm glad to hear you recognize him. You cannot therefore say that you rely on the advice of the Higher Council for Hygiene. You say there have been many meetings. You say through this that you haven't met everyone. Thank you for recognizing him today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u209	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u210	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1848/8) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1848/8) The title was amended by the Committee in its draft Law amending the Law of 4 April 2014 regulating mental health professions and amending Royal Decree No. 78 of 10 November 1967 on the exercise of the health professions and amending the law on the exercise of the health professions, coordinated on 10 May 2015'. The title has been amended by the commission into a bill amending the Act of 4 April 2014 regulating the mental health care professions and amending Royal Decree No. 78 of 10 November 1967 on the exercise of the health care professions and amending the Act on the exercise of the health care professions, coordinated on 10 May 2015". The draft law contains 17 articles. The bill has 17 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u211	•39 – Catherine Fonck (1848/9) •40 Catherine Fonck (1848/9) • 41 • Laurette Onkelinx (1848/10) • 42... Laurette Onkelinx (1848/10) • 43 – Laurette Onkelinx (1848/10) • 44... Laurette Onkelinx (1848/10) • 45... Laurette Onkelinx (1848/10) • 46... Laurette Onkelinx (1848/10) Annex V.Part 2.124 • 47 • Laurette Onkelinx (1848/10) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u212	****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u213	Held: the vote on the amendments and Rules 11 and 13.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u214	******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u215	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Catherine Fonck, Michel de Lamotte. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to this bill and this bill. I suggest that you have a single discussion on this bill and this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u216	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u217	Mr President, I am sticking to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u218	You keep the floor for the general debate, Mr Friart, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u219	Mr. Speaker, Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is part of our government's desire, the majority of us, to enhance the social status of self-employed workers, who are, we must acknowledge, the true engine of our country's economy. Within this framework, this bill focuses on women's entrepreneurship as well. This bill contains three main provisions. The first is an exemption from social security contributions for self-employed workers, who interrupt their work following childbirth, without affecting social benefits, namely family allowances, sickness and disability insurance and pension. The second provision is a new legal basis for responding to a series of earlier Council of State opinions on a range of other bills in order to ensure legal certainty for provisions promoting the reconciliation between the professional and private lives of self-employed persons. There are therefore three things: first, helping the self-employed who have just given birth, in order to help them resume their professional activity, in this case a home helper of a household nature. Second, the adoption allowance also for self-employed workers. And tertio, the allowance of close assistant for self-employed workers who interrupt their activity in order to provide care to a close person seriously ill or to their disabled child. The third provision concerns the updating of various provisions to refer to the insurance applicable to maternity care.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u220	The Minister's work should be commended and encouraged to continue in this direction. It will also be recalled that several measures taken by the government, such as the tax shift - which concerns, in particular, a reduction in the burden on the self-employed - are also aimed at encouraging vocations, enabling everyone to start their own business and thus to become a self-employed worker. The figures show, moreover, the results recorded by our majority. It was recalled earlier: in 2015, 87,000 companies were created – this is a record figure. In recent years, the MR, through Minister Sabine Laruelle, had already achieved – and it was not always easy – a substantial improvement in the status of self-employed workers. Minister Borsus continues this action. The MR Group welcomes this and will continue to support it in its various efforts to upgrade the status of entrepreneur. Moreover, this improvement often and generally results in job creation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u221	Minister, I would like to make a brief statement, because my group fully supports the draft law and I would like to express my appreciation of that work. The draft law is an important additional step in strengthening the social status of the self-employed, because 34% of all members of the self-employed are women and we note that many of these self-employed women cite the difficult combination of private life and the job as an important threshold for starting as self-employed. For this reason and because a survey shows that self-employed people are perfectly prepared to help to strengthen the social status of self-employed workers in matters of maternity rest and assistance, this draft law has succeeded in improving the social status of self-employed women in particular. On the one hand, we are going to extend maternity rest by four weeks, which we can only welcome; on the other hand, we are making it possible to take up maternity rest half-time. A third important measure in the draft law is the exemption from the payment of social contributions for self-employed women for the quarter following childbirth. We fully agree with these three elements of the strengthening of the social status of maternity rest. We have asked for it ourselves and negotiated it with us. We therefore fully support the draft law. When asked by our group why the measures will not enter into force until 1 January 2017, the Minister replied that the government needs a transitional period in order to be able to take all the measures and to give the sickness funds the opportunity to prepare themselves for the new situation. Of course, we would have preferred the measures to come into force as soon as possible, but we understand the preparatory phase of the new regulation. The new measures also have a cost, as mentioned by Mr Friart. The estimate for the reduction of social contributions is €13.6 million per year. Thanks to the tax shift, because in this area too, the tax shift provided some support, it was possible to make additional resources available for the social status of the self-employed. This will finance additional investments to strengthen the social status of the self-employed. Finally, the draft law provides for a clearer legal basis for the three existing provisions of the social status, namely maternity assistance, adoption benefit and family benefits, which promote reconciliation between the professional life and the private life of the self-employed. We therefore fully support this draft and hope that it will be implemented quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u222	Mr President, first of all, I would like to say to Mr Friart that self-employed workers are extremely important drivers of our economy. We need businesses, we need self-employed people. But don't despise the other workers who are also engines for our economy! Moreover, the social status of the self-employed must be improved. We've been working on it for years, especially under the previous legislature, as you said. I was a great supporter of this improvement. Thus, as Minister for Social Affairs, I have brought some positive elements. I therefore welcome the fact that we are continuing this path. All this to say that the Socialist Group will support this project, which we consider essential to improve the quality of life of self-employed workers and, in particular, self-employed workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u223	Mr President, of course there is no question of denigrating other workers, but simply of recognizing the role of self-employed workers in our economy. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that they are often the basis of many initiatives. That said, all workers are important in our country. There will never be enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u224	Mr. Speaker, Minister, despite the late hour, I would like to speak in connection with the discussion of this bill because it deals with issues that are important to environmentalists, whether it is the necessary balance between family and working life for employees, self-employed people, all workers in this country, or whether it is support for women's entrepreneurship. In any case, these two subjects are linked, as I will show you in a few moments. As far as female entrepreneurship is concerned, INASTI figures are implacable. Only 34% of the self-employed are self-employed. Unfortunately, this proportion has only increased in 10 years, since in 2004 the percentage of the latter rose to 33%. In addition, a large proportion (26 per cent) of women entrepreneurs are self-employed. In comparison, this is the case only for 21.5 per cent of men. At the same time, the studies, whether carried out by the National Union of Independents or by the UCM, clearly show that one of the main difficulties faced by the self-employed in their work, in their daily lives, is the reconciliation, the balance between family life, private life and working life. This is where the link is made between the two subjects. It is therefore urgent to take measures to improve social status and work/life balance in general, and in particular for self-employed and self-employed people. This is what this text does, by implementing several measures, which Ecolo-Groen has supported for many years, whether it is the allowance granted to close caregivers in case of serious illness or palliative care, the extension of maternity leave by 4 weeks, the possibility of taking it half-time, or the exemption of a quarter of social contributions for the self-employed who interrupts his activity following childbirth. We will therefore support this text with conviction, Minister. That being said, there is a serious lack of focus in our eyes, and I have already spoken to you about it in committee. It's the role of dads, husbands, companions. In other words, minister, where are the men in your measure? Whether it is for family balance, for the balance of privacy, for encouragement, for support for female entrepreneurship, we do not see men, companions, dads, husbands in this text. It is the axis that is missing in our eyes, because men have a crucial role to play in the family-life balance of the self-employed. To encourage them in their plans, to be there at the time of birth, of the expansion of the family. This is absolutely crucial and they must be the first to be made aware of women's entrepreneurship and to support their partners in their projects. It is for this reason that we have tabled a proposal for the introduction of 10-day paternity leave for the self-employed. We will discuss this text when we return to the Committee on the Economy. I hope, minister, that you will be as constructive on its adoption as we are on this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u225	Mr President, Minister, many things have already been said. You know that we had tabled a bill on the same subject, but it went further. I'll be back in a minute. My main message concerns the situation of independent women, especially maternity leave. The State considers them to be half-mamans, since until now they have only been entitled to half the maternity leave. This is obviously not acceptable in the 21st century. There are 310,000 independent women in our country, representing one third of the self-employed. If it seems obvious that these women are no longer half-mamans, in our bill, we would go further, even if we can join you, including on the part of the exemption from payment of social contributions. This is an important aspect since their income is, at that time, zero, since they are on maternity leave. We wanted to go further, in particular on the benefit of service securities. To be in touch with the independents who have been able to benefit from it, I can tell you that the administrative obstacles to the granting of these service certificates, which enable them to resume an activity, are important. We urge that there be some form of systematization of these service titles in order to allow them to access them much more quickly. This system must be made less complex. I ask you, minister, to make arrangements in relation to this, by making the maternity assistance automatic, along with the service titles. A number of independent mothers are not entitled to these service titles simply because they have not even benefited from this information. The deadlines are then exceeded. And at that moment, the help is lost. That's really a shame. We will have to go further on maternity leave. This is a satisfactory step, but we plead for us to go further. Even today, unacceptable situations still exist, since some women do not have the right to maternity benefits because they change their socio-occupational status. Compared to this, Belgium was condemned by the Court of Justice of the European Union in May 2015 because the conditions imposed deprive these women of the benefits during maternity leave due to their change of status. There is an urgent need to correct these provisions of probationary conditions. Facilitating mixed careers and thus facilitating professional mobility is also a major element. Today, this professional mobility, these mixed careers are penalized, because they are not taken into account. We have tabled a bill on this matter. We are well aware of the small game of the majority in relation to this, but by filing this text and repeating the message as often as necessary, I hope that it will one day materialise and that these provisions will be corrected. In any case, you do not have the right to escape because it is a conviction of May 2015 by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Mr Minister, in a word as in a hundred, if we want to allow women to get involved when they are hesitant, if we want to see that, tomorrow, even young wage-earning women who want to start their self-employment take the lead, if we want to see that tomorrow, women's entrepreneurship can be much more developed than it is today, there will be, I say clearly, new steps to be taken both on social status, on occupational mobility and on mixed careers which, more than yesterday, and even more tomorrow than today, will be relevant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u226	I have no other speaker inscribed. I give you the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u227	First of all, I would like to thank all the groups for their support and positive message. Of course, I have the deepest respect for all the actors in the world of work, regardless of the regime in which they work. My particular mission is to be the Minister of the Independents and therefore to take the step forward of the status of the independents. Thank you for helping us, thank you for the proposals. I would like to point out that this is the eighth additional provision in favour of the self-employed since the beginning of this Parliament, that is, every two and a half months, there is an improvement in the status. I would like to refer to the previous steps: the file on minimum pensions, the accounting of the end-of-career quarters, the measures for the benefit of the self-employed who devote themselves to close caregivers, Mrs Fonck, the right of entry for forced economic cessations, the reductions in social contributions started this year. There is still, on the one hand, the provisions for the self-employed and, on the other hand, the increase in tax deductions. Finally, these provisions include a technical component to consolidate the legal basis, but above all provisions to improve the status of women, independent mothers. There will be further steps and I take note of Mrs Fonck's statement concerning her proposal for the articulation of the statutes, which I have studied very carefully. I assure you, I have no problem approving an idea, whether it comes from one bench or the other of this House. On the other hand, I would also like to mention the fact that these provisions seem to me to be original. They were the result of a very broad consultation with the representative organisations. They do indeed resume the possibility of interrupting maternity leave, segmenting it and finally taking it part-time, the period being actually extended by four weeks. Mrs Fonck, with regard to service titles, I have been sensitive to this finding. From now on, the issuance of service certificates will be semi-automatic. Not automatic because I'm not going to give service titles to someone who would explicitly refuse them, I can't imagine that. Everyone will be offered them, it will be to inform everyone, to have an approach that says "you will receive titles-services. Unless you take a step in return to refuse them, we send them to you." It seems to me to be almost automatic and respectful of people's will. This is part of global measures to support women's entrepreneurship in line with the various interventions I have heard. As I committed myself to it, Mr. Vanden Burre. I know there's some thought to be done about paternity leave. In this regard, we have various studies already available as well as budgetary projections. I hope to be able to meet your expectations before the end of the legislature. I would like to thank you very warmly for your support for these provisions, which I believe are important for a large number of independents and of course for independent activity in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u228	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u229	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1873/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1873/3) The draft law contains 8 articles. The bill has 8 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u230	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u231	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Veli Yüksel, Karolien Grosemans, Richard Miller, Tim Vandenput, Peter Buysrogge, Roel Deseyn, Denis Ducarme.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u232	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1881/6) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1881/6) The meeting's open. The discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mrs Bellens. She has informed me that she refers to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u233	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the reason for my initiative is the forthcoming NATO summit in Warsaw. The two-yearly NATO summit of Heads of State or Government will take place on 8 and 9 July. This summit is important because, every two years, NATO clearly focuses on the current problems and challenges. Today, this NATO summit is incredibly important because the security situation in Europe is changing. On the one hand, we have the Russian threat on the eastern flank and on the other we have the new threats and threats south and central. Every day there is an attack somewhere in the world. Yesterday it was in Turkey. Turkey was hit by a very serious terrorist attack. At Istanbul Airport, dozens of people were killed and injured. I would like to express our condolences to all these victims and their families. Of course we condemn these cowardly and barbarous acts. Colleagues, one of the reasons for NATO's emergence is to help allies to guarantee security. Turkey is a NATO ally and, like the other countries, we will also show our solidarity with the Turkish people. I should like briefly to point out that the attacks are very similar to the attacks we made three months ago. That means a lot. This resolution, ladies and gentlemen, naturally also seeks to strengthen Belgium's focus and to clarify our country's role in this changing security environment. What's it gonna take? Firstly, I believe that it is important that the strategic plan for defence, which is actually the compass of these and subsequent governments, should be definitively laid down by this summit within a good week. As you all know, diplomatic and military circles are looking forward to this plan with great interest. Secondly, in the resolution before us, we also call for the defence budget not to fall further and to increase gradually again. Ladies and gentlemen, this is in line with the Christmas agreement and with the commitments made in Wales two years ago. I'll come back to that later. This government has been the first government in 25 years to break the negative spiral when it comes to financial resources and budgets, and invests heavily in security instruments again. Of course, defence is a very good example of this. Thirdly, this resolution also calls for our commitment and the strengthening of our contribution to NATO operations. There is no need to stress that we want to remain a credible partner at international level and that we want and will play our role in this respect too. We will therefore deliver our fair share. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are in favour of a good balance between homeland security and other tasks. You all know that the military have been patrolling the streets for the last year and a half. I would like to take this opportunity to thank our military for their efforts over the last few weeks and months. They carry out a difficult task in difficult circumstances. The balance between homeland security and international missions and foreign operations must not, of course, be compromised. In the resolution we give an example of our contributions in Afghanistan and in the Eastern European countries. Fourthly, as far as cyberspace is concerned, there have been many cyber attacks in recent weeks and months. I therefore believe that cyberspace needs to be given much more attention within the NATO alliance than is currently the case. The resolution before us focuses on a number of issues, as I have just said. Finally, we call for a pragmatic approach, a consensus, to be adopted in relation to Russia. On the one hand, we condemn Russian violations. You know that these violations have been piling up lately. On the other hand, of course, we want to continue our dialogue with Russia in order to bring about a normalization of relations between the West and Russia. In this spectrum, I think it is important for our country, Belgium, to play its full role as a bridge builder in diplomatic circles. I'll come to my decision. We are a NATO partner, but of course, in addition to strengthening our presence, we do not want to separate our role within NATO from enhanced cooperation with the EU, the UN and, of course, other regional organisations such as the OSCE. I hope that this resolution tabled by myself and my fellow Members from other majority parties will also benefit from the support of our fellow Members from the opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u234	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is always a pleasure to speak in a full House!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u235	It's a matter of quality!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u236	Quality question, you're right! This majority text was adopted in committee in the absence of the opposition. We wanted to protest the way in which the debate is being conducted within the Commission under an increasingly limited committee chair when it comes to implementing and complying with the Rules of Procedure. I am therefore obliged to intervene at a sufficient length in order to present my group's position on this text and, more broadly, on the NATO summit, a position which, by force of events, is not included in the report. This government, the leading N-VA, was going to revolutionize Belgian National Defence. Belgium was going to become the best student of NATO, massive investments, atlantism at all levels, defence budget increasing exponentially, priority given to operations abroad and last but not least, a strategic plan over 15 years in order to finally have a clear vision of the Belgian army of the future. What assessment can we draw today almost two years later? First of all, a military investment plan, for which it was decided to buy everything but also to postpone everything to the next government, when the funds are empty and especially without European reflection which would have allowed indispensable synergies. Then a budget in the red. I stressed this in the first fiscal year, wondering how N-VA and MR were going to be able to vote for such a fiscal straitjacket with nearly two billion historical cuts, whereas they themselves, before the elections, had advocated an increase. Since then, I have been joined in my analysis by many experts, including Wally Struys, Defence Economist and Professor Emeritus at the Royal Military School, and I quote briefly: "The Michel government had said that it would do much for Defence, as NATO had requested. And then when the budget notifications came out, we saw that the budget was falling until 2019." In the Minister's draft strategic plan, it can be seen that this actually decreases until that date. And then it explodes. In ten years, we do more than double the budget. For a long time now, I've been saying that at least the budget has to be indexed. In this case, you mustn't believe Santa Claus. What is the next coalition that will have to achieve all this? It's not credible. How can we be more explicit, ladies and gentlemen? The number of military personnel deployed abroad has reached a historic level, between 300 and 400 military personnel against the ambition of 1,000 military personnel deployed under previous governments, and above all, we are witnessing an almost total withdrawal of United Nations missions. Similarly, the number of new military engagements has reached a historic level. Indeed, it is with great interest that I have read the chapter on defence in the Court of Auditors' last report, while the owner of the Earth Component, General Deconinck, has explained on many occasions that he will soon be unable to do anything suitable on the ground. This report tells us that due to the deployment of the military on the street, Defence must reduce its training capacity. The report also reminds us that Operation Vigilant Guardian weighs too much on the operation and budget of the army. The reduction of training threatens in the medium and long term, the international operationality of our country, the core business of our Defence, without unlocking new means for the police areas, whose real job it is. In short, two sovereign functions of the State were weakened. Worse, the Court of Auditors' report tells us that the savings in training for €3.2 million will be used to hire an additional 200 military personnel to overcome the record level of commitments planned by this government: 700 military personnel. All experts agree, however, that 700 commitments per year are far too little even to achieve the new target of 25,000 military personnel. How can this government fund these in the future without reducing training to ensure excellence and training? In addition, which says 200 more soldiers, also says more trainings. What about the budget? Finally, I come to this famous strategic plan and above all to this motion for a resolution which my group has welcomed with a touch of irony. This strategic plan was promised to us within six months. Despite this lack of strategic vision and all the uncertainties about jobs, neighbourhoods and their future, our military continued to do a tremendous job that I once again salute. Almost two years later, we do not have any documents, except the Minister's release following the decisions of the December 22, 2015 Kern and the PowerPoint released in Defence Commission on January 13. The atmosphere within the majority seems to be such that my colleagues on the CD&V regularly question the minister about when the strategic plan will come out. Today, therefore, we have on the benches of our plenary session this motion for a resolution which calls for its publication before the NATO Summit. Would the CD&V use Parliament to dry the intercabinets? Would there be a need for a motion for a resolution to be heard about a timetable for the publication of the strategic plan? It is true that we have seen many tensions within the government, with Deputy Prime Minister Alexander De Croo even calling the decision of Minister Vandeput to acquire Patriot-type missiles an idiotic idea. I share this analysis. Meanwhile, the Defence budget reaches a floor. The cuts decided by this government bring Belgian military spending to 0.9% of GDP in 2015. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I want this government to have a strategic plan, but not just how or at any cost.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u237	Mr Pirlot, Mr Buysrogge wishes to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u238	Mr Pirlot, of course you are not yet at the end of your speech. I apologise for interrupting you, but the coalition agreement is based on a strategic vision that needs to be drawn up. It was translated into the Christmas agreement, which clarifies the capacities in which future investment is to be made. I'm glad you're so interested in raising budgets. It is our intention to get to the strategic plan as soon as possible, which you are so eagerly looking forward to. Let that be one of the questions in this resolution. I therefore expect you to approve this resolution with enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u239	What do I remember from this possible strategic pre-plan, when asked this morning by me, Mr. Minister told me that the negotiations were still taking place within the government? It's been going on for two years. I take it from the presentation made to us in January that it is: - a lacunae pre-plan for missions to assist the nation, support internal security and medical and humanitarian missions, all of which are sub-priorities; - a plan that destroys our medical component, yet on the front line, both during operations abroad and during the terrible attacks that our country has experienced, as the hearings in committee of inquiry have shown; - a plan in which memory work is not even mentioned, the MRA soon becoming a regionalised, sometimes privatized institution; - a plan where the formation of our military is forgotten and the threat noises on the ERM are becoming increasingly heavy; - a plan where Central Africa is only the least of your worries; - a plan in which the search for European synergies, both military, strategic, human and industrial, seem to be forgotten, while NATO's option, in terms of operations and areas of intervention, is very strongly marked in relation to the EU and, in particular, to the UN; - a strategic pre-plan that is not funded. That's the problem! This is a credit gift that will weigh heavily on the next majorities of government, given the current fiscal straitjacket decided by the Michel government. The presentation made to Parliament merely recalled the terms of the government agreement for an amount of 9.2 billion by 2030, largely dedicated to the purchase of combat aircraft, which was decided on the basis of a strategic vision that is still incomplete. Do these purchases meet real, determined, carefully studied needs? What kind of missions are they intended for? At the moment, there are only questions. Is it really with this possible strategic pre-plan that you want to represent our country at the next NATO summit? The current budget has never been so low. Only Luxembourg and Spain are still behind us, so much so that NATO Secretary General Stoltenberg pinned our country in a speech and recently contacted Charles Michel. Another little effort, and we will be the last of the class! Yes, I know, you are going to tell me about the conclusions of the NATO summit in Wales, at which the previous Prime Minister represented our country. I would like to recall this in this regard. Prior to this summit, on 1 September 2014, Prime Minister Di Rupo addressed the Secretary General of NATO in the words: "I inform you, as well as the Council and the Allies, that it is not possible for a government in day-to-day affairs to make this kind of commitment that binds future governments". It is not I who say it, it is Charles Michel, who showed intellectual honesty in his answer to an oral question that I addressed to him several months ago. As a result, no commitment was made by the previous government, then in day-to-day business. For my group, increasing the defence budget is not an end in itself, but we deplore the severe cuts that this government has made in this department. We are also convinced that the increase in the security budget cannot be offset on our social policies, for example. The defence budget solution must be European, and you know that. You have rejected all my amendments in this respect. The problem is not that of the money spent by all the Member States, but that of mutualisation and synergies at all levels: human, material and logistical. For the PS, Belgium must continue and strengthen its commitment to a defence Europe within NATO that would streamline military spending, while increasing efficiency and making Europe a major and reliable diplomatic player on a global scale. It is therefore necessary to focus on the development of targeted military capabilities, but consistent with our international, European and North Atlantic missions and commitments. For us, the voice and positions of the European Union must be strengthened within NATO, the role of which has also changed and evolved, particularly in the light of the changing international context. For the PS, the establishment of our country within NATO is in no way called into question. NATO remains a major alliance, established in Belgium, in which Belgium must remain active. However, at the international level, Belgium will have to continue and strengthen its commitment to a defence Europe in order to enable the emergence of a real European strategy, emancipated from NATO's unique strategy, including industrial one. That is why I have re-tabled today a series of amendments which transpose the positions I have just outlined and which also address the thorny nuclear issue and the NPT, which is missing from this text. This text is very weak. Not a word about government funding, not a word about denuclearization, not a word about defence Europe. My amendments are aimed at fixing what I hope to be mere oblivion, although you have already rejected them in committee. But it's never too late to amend and make up for it. Finally, I would like to know whether it is in this type of text that we have to decide on the strategy to be carried out in Eastern Europe or Afghanistan, which represents a specific and important debate. My group will therefore oppose this resolution for the reasons I have just outlined and, when I read your text, I cannot help paraphrasing Victor Fleming's famous film with Vivien Leigh and Clark Gable in the respective roles of Scarlett O'Hara and the cynical Rhett Butler: NATO takes the wind!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u240	Colleague, I would like to make three points. First of all, when you discussed the important motion for a resolution, you ran away. The fact that you ran away, along with other fellow Members, had nothing in itself to do with the proposal. I regret that, and I would like to make that formal here. As far as the strategic plan is concerned, as you have just admitted, the government announced on 22 December the broad lines of the strategic plan in the Christmas agreement. You mentioned a certain amount and you asked what the choices were. Well, if you had taken the trouble to look at the Christmas agreement and the presentation of the minister in committee in detail, you would have found that the components are being discussed, that investments are being made and that our 2030 horizon is very clear. Ladies and gentlemen, let me be clear: the Minister and the Government have worked hard over the past few weeks to complete the plan. There will be an agreement when there is an agreement on everything. The final details, which the government is currently working on, will also be finalised before the summit. Mr Dallemagne, I would rather have a good agreement than a quick agreement that is half-hearted and does not bring all the elements. We're talking about the 2030 horizon. So it is not just about the choices and priorities of the current government, but also those of the forthcoming legislatures. Finally, you say that Europe is missing. Europe is not missing. I have just explained that, for us, foreign policy and defence policy are based on three principles: the EU, the UN and NATO. That is also in line with the coalition agreement. All our initiatives and choices will therefore take account of these three principles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u241	I explained at the beginning of my speech the reasons why we left. That's the first thing. The second is that there is still no agreement at the strategic plan level, since this very morning the minister did not answer my question on this point. I wouldn't want to be in your place, Mr. Yüksel. The problem with the CD&V, your party, is that we never know if you are in the majority or in the opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u242	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today and tomorrow there are a number of issues on the agenda that have to do with Defence. The important motion for a resolution on the Warsaw Summit is now under discussion and the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber is to be discussed, and the Committee on Army Purchases will be able to deal with military sales in future. A motion for a resolution will be discussed tomorrow to further support the actions against ISIS. There is therefore a great deal of willingness in Parliament to act on defence. I hope, therefore, that the federal government will show the same willingness to act over the next few hours and days. Ladies and gentlemen, in Warsaw, in addition to NATO's response to new security and defence challenges, the Member States' efforts in the field of defence will be reviewed in particular. I do not need to remind you of the promises made by the previous government on this matter. Mr Pirlot has just referred to this at the summit in Wales. Our government has included ambitious intentions in its coalition agreement to reverse the downward trend in investment in defence over the last three decades. The present proposal underlines these investment proposals once again. We therefore welcome this and will be happy to approve the proposal. This morning, in the Committee on Defence, there was a hint of criticism from the opposition about the lack of concrete steps to be taken to implement the strategic plan for defence, which was announced on 22 December. I know they're working hard on it. I can only appeal here to the government and also to the fellow Members of the other majority parties not to fail now, at the moment of the truth. The government must unpack in Warsaw with an ambitious forward-looking investment plan, which brings us back into the NATO Member States' peloton. That is the essence of the coalition agreement, but also what society expects of us to safeguard the future of our children. This has been demonstrated many times during the hearings and in reactions from large sections of the population. The motion for a resolution therefore requires no less than a clear signal from our government in Warsaw.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u243	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I thank Mr Pirlot for having praised the intellectual honesty of Prime Minister Charles Michel. It was my pleasure to hear you, Mr. Pirlot.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u244	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u245	Yes, yes! I'm insisting again. I'll put a diaper back on, Mr. Pirlot. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank Mr. Yüksel and Buysrogge, who are the primordials of this important text. I will focus my speech on the Warsaw summit, and I will speak less, Mr Pirlot, about the subjects you have discussed. The next Summit of the Heads of State and Government of the Atlantic Alliance will take place in Warsaw next weekend. Our Prime Minister, Charles Michel, will go to this summit with a very clear, very ambitious Belgian position, as has just been recalled. This position is reflected in our resolution. This NATO summit is particularly important, since, since the end of the cold war, for the first time, the Atlantic Alliance must not reflect on the management of diffuse or distant threats or, as in the 2000s, on the transformation of the military tools of new member countries, but must reflect on the best military means to respond to genuine direct breaches of our security environment, which entails a duty of political coherence and military solidarity among member countries, a transatlantic unity of view that we share in order to strengthen the security alliance between Europe and the United States. This constant involvement of Washington in the security of the European continent was, in 1949, the basis of the founding of the Atlantic Alliance. This American commitment is and remains fundamental. However, I recognize, Mr Pirlot, that you have raised one or the other important point. I do not understand that you said that our resolution lacked considerations relating to the European Union. It is sufficient to read point 11, where this is amply detailed. Having said that, you are right, it is not necessary for this American commitment to clear Europe of the efforts to be made in the field of defence. We are in favour of maintaining a united and strong alliance. At the same time, however, we are calling for the consolidation of a European defence pillar within NATO.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u246	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u247	Mr Cheron, are you here to listen to me? That's nice. In view of the time it is, I am pleased!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u248	Especially if you're short!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u249	No, this time, I'm a long time. I've been prepared for a text. So, I'm a long time. [[Laughs]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u250	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u251	Don't make me laugh, Mrs. Onkelinx! What is our analysis of the security situation we face? An arc of crisis and instability surrounds the majority of the countries of Europe and affects, out of solidarity, each member of the Alliance, from the north to the coasts of the Maghreb. Since 2008 and the war in Georgia, but especially since 2014, events in Crimea and in eastern Ukraine, it is clear that Russia is asking questions. It has re-adopted an attitude that threatens our interests and our security. I regret that, but the fact is that it is ours. Some examples have already been mentioned earlier. Russia's military role and political discourse in Crimea and eastern Ukraine are problematic. The strengthening of its naval presence in the Barents Sea, the Baltic Sea and the Black Sea is a problem. Its air presence around and sometimes over European airspace is also a problem. A Russian submarine was intercepted by the British Royal Navy not far from Dover and not far from the Belgian coast! Thanks to this resolution, Parliament is asking the government to increase it. We are participating in the work of the Defence Committee, where we have heard behind closed doors from official representatives of the arms industry to defend the F-16 replacement cases. So I'm not going to betray the in camera. However, I was surprised to hear how concerned the Swedish manufacturer was about the presence and development of Russian activities near the Swedish coast near the Baltic. It wasn't just a stick effect; it was really fear. Russia wants to restore its status as a world power by adopting a foreign policy in which the short but decided use of military instruments unfortunately has its place. Of course, Russia is not acting without results. In Syria, the Russians achieved a political effect through military means. For the past five years, the Kremlin has developed new military tools. Frequency and size of exercises, increased long-range aviation activities, advanced missile defence, increased maritime capacity to meet its needs. Russia is building capacity to achieve political goals. In recent years, the country has upgraded approximately 70 per cent of its military equipment, including in the field of cyber defence. The Russian threat is a mixture of capacity and intent, but it is placed in our immediate vicinity. Therefore, within the Atlantic Alliance, we must develop a coherent strategy, speaking with one voice with Moscow. The Atlantic Alliance must also, in a non-aggressive but naive manner, dialogue with Russia on certain international issues where Russia has a role to play. We must also use all the means at our disposal, diplomatic, military and economic, especially within the European Union, to respond to a balance of power that Moscow wants to exercise in its direct neighbourhood.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u252	Mr Miller, I agree with you in large part with what you said about Russia. I would simply say that having attended the NATO Inter-Parliamentary Assembly, it still appears that we have Eastern countries that make a relative fixation on the Russian threat, which I can understand given the communist yoke, etc. But I also believe, as you know, that we will still have to play with Russia, which is one of the keys to a European security architecture. We can't pretend that Russia isn't frequent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u253	That is why, Mr Pirlot, but I may have said too quickly, we are calling for a single voice with Moscow at the level of the Atlantic Alliance but also at European level. There is a need for dialogue with Russia - I repeat what I said earlier - which has a role to play on some international issues. We couldn't do without Russia. So it is at the same time diplomatic, military and economic that we must succeed in finding ways of understanding with this inevitable but important neighbour who is developing a rather worrying activity. But in parallel with the Russian problem, the threats from the South have also been mentioned by my colleagues. They have changed considerably in recent months, since the terrorist attacks in Paris, the attacks in Brussels and, of course, the horrific tragedy that took place at Istanbul airport. The fight against Daesh needed to strengthen our cooperation with all the coalition countries. Our colleague, Mr Buysrogge, spoke about it earlier or spoke about it very quickly. Tomorrow, we will have an extremely important debate on this issue to show how we support our government's action in the fight against Daesh. I used the term "fight", since, as I said, I rely on a prepared text. I don't think we should be afraid to use the term "war." We are in a context of war against international Islamist terrorism. This is not a conventional war, of course, but we are in such a context. The rules established within NATO have enabled our F-16 pilots, our trainers, the special forces of a number of countries to work together in perfect harmony, to fully justify NATO's indispensable role in bringing the military of the various member countries together. The exchange of information, in particular, has also proved useful. Colleagues, in Warsaw, the government will have to respond to these two types of challenges that require a battery of answers. NATO must be able to adapt its analysis grid to the strategic situation we are facing. In this regard, the Alliance has not embarked on a broad theoretical debate to renew its strategic concept; it has taken concrete and proportionate decisions that have military weight and high political value, in order to strengthen our security environment. In the East, we must deter Russia from further aggression in its region. We must put forward Article 5 of the Atlantic Charter. "The parties agree that an armed attack against one or more of them occurring in Europe or North America will be considered an attack against all the parties, and accordingly they agree that if such an attack occurs, each of them, in the exercise of the legitimate right of individual and collective defence recognized by Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations, shall assist the party or parties so attacked by immediately taking, individually and in agreement with the other parties, such action as it deems necessary, including the use of armed force." NATO's borders are inviolable. This foundation dates back to the Atlantic Alliance, and must be put forward as it has been the foundation of our common security throughout the Cold War. Nevertheless, the Alliance must be able to deter Russia from continuing to carry out the kind of actions it has undertaken since 2008. Our wish is to restore a phase of appeasement in our relations with Moscow, a relationship of transparency and predictability. In order to do so, we need to have dialogue with the Russians in order to avoid misappreciation and to rebuild, step by step, constructive military cooperation, a relationship of trust for the benefit of both partners. Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude: in Warsaw, NATO will therefore focus on this balance between deterrence, defence and dialogue. It is necessary for each NATO member to declare its commitment to Article 5 which I have just recalled. To achieve this goal, member countries must continue to stop the decline in their defence budget and must, Mr Pirlot, reinvest, as they have been doing since 2015, in their military tool. It is therefore necessary to find the right balance between political objectives and defence budgets in order to achieve these objectives. In any case, that is the position we stand for, which my political party also defends within this majority. NATO must maintain and justify its role as a guardian of European security and a bridge between the Americans and Europeans. NATO is the framework within which the Americans get involved. We are also defending the consolidation of a European defence pillar within NATO. The resolution we are going to adopt, ladies and gentlemen, reflects this political position. The MR supports this text as it supports Prime Minister Charles Michel in his action in Warsaw. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u254	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I have to say humbly that I am no longer able to follow. The ways of this government in the field of defence and the Minister's roads are really unfathomable. I read in the October 2014 government agreement that a long-term strategic vision would be established within six months. So that was to say about Easter. I also have a press release from the Minister of Defence of 22 December 2015, entitled "According to the 2030 Strategic Plan for Defence'. The first sentence of the press release reads: "Today a historic decision was taken." Today I read in paragraph 1 of the resolution before us that this majority is asking the government to propose a strategic plan. Colleagues, what is it now? You are playing with words, but in the coalition agreement we were promised a future vision of this majority on defence within six months. We've been going on for almost two years now and we're still in the dark. Now you say that this majority is asking the government for a strategic plan for the summit on 8 and 9 July. Does that mean that tomorrow, Monday, Tuesday or Wednesday the Council of Ministers will decide on the strategic plan for defence? I'd like to hear what it is. Why did it take almost two years? How strong is your promise that we will see the strategic plan before 8 or 9 July? Can we believe that now? Second point, and I'm only discussing three...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u255	Mr van der Maelen, Mr Buysrogge wishes to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u256	Mr van der Maelen, it is not Parliament that has to draw up the strategic plan. You're asking us when it is. We ask the government to do so within that time frame. That is all we can do, but we insist. It is true that time has passed. The government has taken its time, but it is also important to take time. It is now important, however, that the timing of the Warsaw Summit be used to reach an agreement to present the strategic plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u257	You come with a resolution on 29 June. The NATO summit is in eight days and you are asking the minister to propose a strategic plan before the summit! The question is very clear. Will the minister come to present his strategic plan before the summit? Is that the question we all ask ourselves? Do we still have a chance? Because I saw the Defence Committee's agenda next week: there's nothing on the agenda next week. So I don't see very well when he's going to present his strategic plan to us! He will not come to present his strategic plan!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u258	We use circumvolutions. If there is no plan, it is not because the government gives itself time, but simply because there is no agreement between the parties of the majority government. I'll use this metaphor to say that we're in the gestation phase of an elephant, because we've been waiting for more than 15 months and that it's going to give birth to a mouse!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u259	Mr President, Mr Van der Maelen, Mr Dallemagne, there is a great deal to be said, but the Christmas agreement has laid down the general guidelines. It is on that basis that the government, and the Minister in particular, is working on a refinement of the strategic plan. Today is June 29th, and the summit will take place on July 8th and 9th. You are well informed, Mr Van der Maelen, and you are also following the press closely. There will be an agreement when there is an agreement on everything. As I said a moment ago, the details are being worked out in full and very hard. I am making it clear that the government will come out against the summit with a plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u260	Now I am reassured, because I suspect that you are making the condition that, if that is not the case, Minister Vandeput should resign. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I would be very pleased if you would now make the commitment that, if there were no plan, you would explain to us before the recess where it is stuck and what the bottlenecks are, the so-called details you are talking about. That's what we'd like to know. Why, after 20 months of tampering, has this government not yet succeeded, despite the fact that it is clearly in the coalition agreement, to present us here, in the terminology of the coalition agreement, with a strategic long-term vision? So let us agree that if there is not before 8 or 9 July, we will discuss this publicly before the summer recess. Agreed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u261	Mr Van der Maelen, I understand that you are concerned about the situation in Ghent, but I do not understand that Mr Calvo is also concerned about his cartel partner. Anyway, we'll discuss that in Ghent. Once again, Mr van der Maelen, there will only be an agreement when there is an agreement on everything. You've been here a long time, and you'll know that. Secondly, the main lines of the Christmas agreement remain. Thirdly, the budgetary context is very difficult and you know it better than anyone. We want to take our time to present an agreement which is well worked out, well balanced and which provides an answer to today's and tomorrow's needs. I repeat, I am strongly committed to having an agreement against the summit and a plan that is fully worked out.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u262	The problem is that it is not the opposition that calls for a precise timetable, even if we have been calling for it for a long time, but in this case you are imposing a date. It is you who say that you will present it before the Warsaw Summit. And when you say that, we imagine that this is a presentation to Parliament, not to the press. I looked at the Defence Committee's agenda again, and I didn't see anything. Are you announcing that there will be a special Defence Committee next week, in addition to the agenda? You're imposing a timing. We are happy with this timing but we would just like to receive confirmation and you do not bring us any real confirmation. You tell us that there will be an agreement when everyone agrees, what we have been told for two years, which is not what is in your resolution. We would like to know whether your resolution makes sense or is absurd, as we think.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u263	Mr Dallemagne, you can read what is in paragraph 1 of the resolution. We ask the government to come out against that summit with a fully-fledged plan. I am not setting the agenda of the Committee on Defence and we are flexible in this House. So don't worry! When the plan is finished and the Minister comes out with it, you will have the opportunity to debate it. Besides, we had a very extensive debate on this in January. You will have the opportunity to debate the other points with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u264	Mr President, I would like to echo what Mr Yüksel said. I also believe that there is a new Rules of Procedure, in which the opposition can question the majority, because we have to be accountable here. At least it wasn't entirely clear to me. I believe that the government is supposed to be questioned, but this was not entirely clear to me. At least I assume it's about questions to the government. I am confident that this government can go to Warsaw with a positive message. If that is not the case, I do not think we should meet next week, because then the Warsaw Summit has not yet passed. Wednesday morning, 13 July, there is normally a meeting of the Defence Committee. I am not the chairman of the committee, but I think it is logical that some way can be traced back to what was being discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u265	Mr Buysrogge, I agree with you on this point: it is not up to you to answer these questions, it is up to the government. But the least we can say is that the government is not so interested in your resolution. He wasn't here in committee. You rejected the opposition, but the minister was not there in committee. Don't say otherwise! Was he there? No, he wasn't here in committee. The second thing is that the Minister of Defence is still not here in plenary. We have another member of the government who is not interested in our debates at all. He's in another debate. We would like to question the government, but the government is not interested in your resolution!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u266	Mr President, Mr Dallemagne, the Defence Office was present in the committee during the discussion. You asked the Secretary of Defense a question here last week. The Minister of Defence made a very explicit reference to this resolution and called on you to support it. The Minister of Defence is therefore aware of the content of the resolution. So don't worry about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u267	The minister was here this morning. I asked him if the strategic plan was complete and if we could have a date. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u268	This morning, today. There was a meeting of the Defence Committee. We talked about the strategic plan. He was asked if it would be ready. The minister replied that it was still under negotiation within the government. But you weren't on the commission this morning. You couldn't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u269	Mr Pirlot, I know it is late, but that is exactly what I have told you three times.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u270	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u271	Mr Calvo, I know you have Ghent in your head. I have already said three times that this plan is being worked on. Don't worry. If you ask me today if there is a plan, I will tell you that there is no plan, because it is being worked on. There'll be a plan when there's an agreement on everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u272	I promised I'd be brief. I haven't said much myself yet, but I suggest that I continue and I note the commitment of my fellow Members that, if there is nothing before 8-9 July, we will hear more on 13 July, together with the majority of the minister's fellow Members, about why the plan, which was announced for April 2015, is still not there today 29 June. We will see if it will be there before 8 or 9 July. I come to my second point. I ask questions to determine my voting behavior. Point 2 of the text states: 'The defence budget must not be further reduced in the short term'. Can you clarify that? Does this mean that you will not reduce the budget even more than you have already done? Or does it mean that you will make an exception for the Defence expenditure post, unlike all other posts, for which you decided at the beginning of the government to make linear savings? Will you return to your original decision to treat Defense in the same way as other departments? If so, how much will you not cut the budget by? Is that the full 100 %, is that 50 %? I would like to hear from my fellow Members of the majority, who write this themselves in their text, about the amounts or percentages involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u273	Mr Van der Maelen, ladies and gentlemen who are interested, the commitment at the 2014 Wales Summit talks about two issues. There's the hard pledge, the hard promise that we won't drop the budget, and there's the soft pledge that we ideally come out at 2 %. We have taken over those commitments. If you are aware of the commitments made in Wales, you will not be surprised, because we have adopted the wording. You're asking how many percent that is. That's just the thing. I cannot reply to that until the Minister has completed his work in full.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u274	That too is unclear.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u275	No, that's not a question of ambiguity. Paragraph 1 of the resolution says that the plan must be to clarify our commitments in Warsaw. The following point concerns the budget. If the plan is there, it will be clear what the commitment will be. We have already made a number of efforts for the defence sector over the past few months, driven by current events and the wretched events. You know that very well. There's 100 million and out of 400 million for terror, part for security, part for defense. It has also been agreed that we will allocate an additional 200 million to this legislative period. All these efforts show that we are not letting the budget go any further. As Mr Miller has just said, for the first time in 25 years, the negative spiral, with each budget and every budget change for savings, is being broken. They're investing in the Defense Department.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u276	Mr. Chairman, I cannot let go of the words of the government spokesman. There are counter-truths in what you say. If you look at the documents at the level of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, it is written black and white that these were not promises but merely pious wishes in relation to the commitments of the Wales Summit. The Prime Minister, Charles Michel, himself acknowledged that there had been no commitment from the previous government because we were in day-to-day business. When you say you've increased the Defence budget, that's not true! You make dark cuts for almost 2 billion euros until 2019 and you reduce those 2 billions simply by not even taking back 100 million euros – contrary to what you say, it's just over 60 million euros – for current expenses. You have to stop saying that you're increasing the budget. You're reducing it. Asked this morning about what he intends to propose at the next Warsaw Summit, the minister replied that he would negotiate the status quo. Let's stop saying we're going to increase Defence's budget. That's not true!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u277	Mr President, I also want to express my astonishment at such a counter-truth. Being able to say such big lies, it's very gallant! I will discuss this in detail during my speech. I would just like to read the excerpt from the Court of Auditors' report on the defence budget. It is not the study centre of the CDH but the Court of Auditors that says this: "By 2019, the reduction of the resources allocated to the Defence Department will correspond to 20% of the commitment appropriations and 17.6% of the liquidation appropriations which had been approved by the legislator for the 2014 budget. This reduction is equivalent to that observed for the same appropriations in the years 2000 to 2013." So, in a single legislature, you'll have cut the Defence budget as much as you've done in the last fourteen years. No one had ever done it! To say that you are going to break the negative spiral is frankly scandalous! We get used to a certain amount of lies in politics but not so much, not at that level. We still have to put a little bit of limits. The budget will continue to decline until 2019. This is the sad reality of the defence budget and it will fall in total – again, the Court of Auditors says – by EUR 1.5 billion over the entire legislature. That's the reality!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u278	Mr van der Maelen, I am pleased that you are looking uninhibited at this resolution and are open to a positive vote, for which I thank you. In addition, I assume that we have scored good points in our defence on your first point. We have said that the feedback after Warsaw must certainly be there. I therefore believe that we have won even more votes in order to facilitate your positive vote. I am a little disappointed in you, but that may be the case with your specific question, budget. I believe that Veli Yüksel's reply was certainly correct in that respect. It's also in the explanatory statement. I assume that you have read the explanatory statement to the resolution, and I am afraid to suspect anything else. It refers to the objectives as agreed by the Heads of State or Government. I believe that there is clarity and that the strategic plan needs to go further. I refer to our previous reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u279	(...) It also says, under point 2: "..."and in the long term to increase gradually." My first question is this. In view of defence expenditure per head of population, Belgium is ninth among the twenty-eight countries. So that's in the first third. Can you explain to me why this majority thinks that Belgium should get even higher in the rankings if it is calculated on the basis of defence expenditure per capita? I come to my second question. These are the figures of the SIPRI on defence expenditure in 2014, with a fixed dollar rate: Russia 91 billion, the European Union 288 billion, the United States 900 billion. So that's actually a ratio of 1 to 10. I have just heard Mr Miller talk about the threat from Russia and so on. What rational arguments do you give me, with a ratio of 1 to 10, in order to increase the ratio with regard to Russia? I'd like to know. The ninth place in the ranking is not good enough for you yet, and with a ratio of 1 in 10 between NATO and Russia in terms of defence spending, the gap is not yet large enough. That gap needs to get even bigger.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u280	Mr President, Mr Van der Maelen, there are, of course, a lot of calculations. The current calculation is made on the basis of GNP, not on the basis of population. That's right. You're wondering what's gradual.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u281	The figures are from the NATO report. NATO gives those figures itself. They're from the NATO report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u282	As you know, the figures used are ideally 2%. There are only one or two countries that reach that figure. All the other countries are below that figure. However, the average of the nuclear powers is 1.6 %. For non-nuclear powers, that is 1.3 %. Mr Pirlot, I noted just now that a commitment was expressed for the NATO countries at the Wales Summit. I did not say that your Prime Minister made a commitment there. I have only referred to what has been agreed among NATO Member States. We are now linking back to those appointments, to that hard pledge so as not to lower the budget further. We add that we are also considering what we can do in the coming period.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u283	Mr President, I note that Mr Buysrogge is not trying. Mr Buysrogge, you have lost my vote. A third and final point I would like to make is this. At the end of point 3, it says: "In which our country can contribute to the entire spectrum through the different dimensions (land, air, marine and cyberspace). Ladies and gentlemen, you must not answer me, but I tell you that it is impossible to pay. That is why we will not support this resolution. I do not want you to be able to tell me or my colleagues later that my group has committed itself to this. Ladies and gentlemen, it is impossible because of the increase in the cost of military equipment alone. For example, look at the fighter planes. While we used to buy 160, you might now be buying 34 new ones. I don't know what you're gonna decide, but those 34 new devices cost way more than those 160. With the budgets you speak of, you can never pay for all the powers and cyberspace.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u284	Mr President, I promise to be brief, because I have already spoken in the discussion. As you know, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I can sometimes be constructive in some of the proposals, but I must admit that this text is - I am going to be a little harsh - a real fraud. It's amazing that you dared to come forward with such a text. He stressed how important the gap is between the content of the resolution and the reality of the figures and policies that are being pursued today by the government. I don't understand how you dared to come with such a text that points to the fluo, all the inadequacies, all the absurdities in defence. I will use two, three elements. I think that perhaps the best thing – and the discussion has just emphasized it now – is to withdraw this text. I do not believe that you will be able, for example, to present a strategic plan. It was true that a strategic plan was believed to exist. Mr Van der Maelen also noted this. I have the same press release from the minister, who proudly announces "Strategic Agreement for Defence 2030". All right! It was the famous Christmas deal, placed under the Minister of Defense's tree. The latter came to committee, I think on 13 January, to present it to us. This item was on the agenda of our committee under the heading of the Defence Strategic Plan. As he passed his slides, I heard the colleagues of the majority around me saying, "But finally, what does he come with? What is this? But no, there is no agreement!" I was discovering this in committee. And indeed, it was copiously and quickly torpedoed by Alexandre De Croo, Wouter Beke, Gwendolyn Rutten, which is not the small machine gun. It's really big heavy cannon that was served to him in the Defence Committee. I've never seen a minister get undressed so quickly by all the parties, except the MR, that's right, it's worth pointing out. We were told that on December 22, an agreement would be reached. He's been waiting for a while, 18 months, but not for nothing. We arrive in committee on 13 January and settle there comfortably. We're watching slides. That sounds amazing, wonderful. And then we get out of there: we pack everything, there is no agreement in the government. The deal was totally treated as a stupid idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u285	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u286	Since then, Back on track - it was L'Echo's article of June 15th - informed us that Kern was finally going to conclude an agreement. This was not lucky because no agreement was reached in Kern. To come today with a motion for a resolution saying that you are going to present a strategic plan, sorry, but we no longer believe in it! On the second point, it is much stronger. You're using the terminology of the Cardiff Summit, which is committed not to cutting its defence budgets any further. These language elements date back to two years ago, and in two years, the Defence budget has been reduced. I have before me the figures of the Court of Auditors. We have never seen such a significant decrease. In 2015, if we compare the 2014 liquidation appropriations with the adjusted budget, including the 100 million you were talking about earlier on the interdepartmental provision, Mr Yüksel, the budget diverges by 164 million, that is, 6.25% in one year. That was for 2015. If we see the budget for 2016, we are going back to 121 million, that is to say an additional 5%. That is the reality of the numbers! So come with a motion for a resolution to say that we are not going to reduce the defence budget, but at the same time we are demolishing it completely. We do as we have never done in defence, we break this budget, we demoralize the army, we don't even invest in infrastructure or maintenance, we don't even allow the troops to train anymore. You really have to be captivated! At this level, I had never seen this! I am not going to take the figures from the Court of Auditors, but it is 1.5 billion on the legislature. At $1.5 billion, we can do a lot of things. Mr. Ducarme will probably agree to buy some 20 fighter jets. We can buy frigates. It is also possible to maintain, recruit and perform additional operations abroad. I would point out that under the previous legislature there was an ambition to provide the international community with 1,200 troops for its peace operations. Today, we are no longer able to make 400 men available to the international community. In terms of capacity to participate in international operations, we are at a point that has never been reached in the history of Belgium! But we have the means to do so. We have the GDP that allows it. We have the expertise to do it. Under this government, we have managed to have a level of contribution to military operations abroad that is completely ridiculous and never achieved before. That is the reality of the numbers! That is the reality of this government's policy. So, come with a motion for a resolution like that, decidedly, we must be inflated! Since my colleagues are a little impatient, which I can understand at this time of the evening, I would like to conclude on two or three points. You are hiring Belgium to Afghanistan for the time when our presence will be necessary. I think this deserves a separate debate – other colleagues have said so. This should not be surreptitiously reflected in point 9 of a resolution on the Warsaw Summit. I want us to discuss this, I am not opposed to a presence in Afghanistan, but I find that this is not where it should be. This must be the subject of debate in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. It's important. On cybersecurity, my colleague Mr. As Van der Maelen pointed out, you have come to learn again by saying: we are going to impose on all Member States that they have the means to ensure their own cybersecurity, their own cyber defence, while we know that once again, in the area of cybersecurity, the government has given our services, including the new cybersecurity centre, totally ridiculous means and incompatible with a true cyber defence capability. Again, it is quite inflated to come with this type of proposal in this resolution. As you will understand, I will not support this resolution, and I would be surprised if some colleagues in my group supported it. More seriously, I find that this is also a totally paradoxical and unacceptable message at the time of Brexit. If there is one subject on which Europeans could mobilize, on which we could have a European ambition, it is really the ability to defend ourselves collectively. It is truly this European pillar of defence. By presenting such a ridiculous budget, by making the budget of the Minister of Defence not of the next government, nor of the next one, but of the following one, because that is it, 2030, but by being unable to make a credible budget today, I find that we are not a serious partner in building European Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u287	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Defence, this resolution is in line with the general vision of Defence, or the general vision of War, which has been carried by this government, and also by previous governments, for years. The PTB has regularly denounced this policy based on a logic of intervention around the world in NATO and its disastrous consequences. In its memorandum on the next NATO summit, CNAPD (National Coordination of Action for Peace and Democracy) said: "By mobilizing an extensible definition of the defence of the territory and security of the Euro-Atlantic zone, NATO is putting forward increasingly varied grounds for justifying its global military presence a priori. We believe that by acting in this way, it stimulates conflict and reinforces the threats it claims to combat, threats that Belgium intends to face in its new strategic plan and the means to respond to them are exactly the same as those presented in the texts of the Atlantic Alliance." CNAPD adds: "If the objective, as NATO points out, is to work towards the security of the Euro-Atlantic zone, then we must assume that our security has been diminished." The current policy of intervention has not reduced insecurity. On the contrary, she increased it. This is the record of our foreign policy that we have been asking for years to face. With the increase in the military budget to 2% of GDP, although there is much discussion about the reality of this increase, and the new investments planned, especially for these new out-of-price fighter aircraft, the majority wants to stick more closely to this NATO policy. For the PTB, we must do the opposite, that is, invest in a policy of peace and disarmament. This means that a policy is needed that avoids destabilizing war interventions. This means that we need a policy that favours diplomacy and negotiations. Finally, there must be a policy in which any foreign peacekeeping mission would be carried out within the strict framework of the Charter of the United Nations and international law with respect for sovereignty. That is why we will vote against this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u288	Mr President, I have a question of form. Allow a young member, in many years of presence on these benches, to ask himself a question. Is it normal to repeat in plenary a debate that has already taken place in committee? If I'm told it's tradition, I'll gladly accept it, but it's a little exaggerated.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u289	As I said at the beginning of my speech, there was no debate in committee. Hence the debate in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u290	That's the explanation, Mr. Carcaci! Is anyone still asking for the floor? (Non) Is anyone else asking for the floor? [[No.]] The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u291	Request 3/Demande 3 • 4 - Sebastian Pirlot cs (1881/3) Request 6/1(n) /Demande 6/1(n) • 5 - Sebastian Pirlot cs (1881/3) ******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u292	The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u293	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u294	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u295	Mr Daerden, I give you the floor on behalf of your group.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u296	Mr President, Minister, with this project, you are pleased to compensate for the negative impact of your tax shift and index jump on minimum pensions. Nice announcement! But it's not. Indeed, you plan to increase not all the minimum pensions but only the pensions of those who have 45 years of career. In practice, we know that few people will be involved. In the wage-earning scheme, 150,000 people - I am rounding up - receive a minimum pension. Of these, only half will see their pension increase. You can boast to increase the pension by 75,000 people, but for my part, I will remember that 75,000 people, including 60,000 women, are left behind! After having cut by more than 50% the incomes of women working involuntary part-time, after having increased the cost of visits to the gynaecologist and I pass, you confirm the red line of the government's deeply unfair and misogynistic policy. This discrimination against women is obvious, and the Council of State has rightly noted it. That must be the explanation! What a change from before! I have just mentioned the 60,000 women in the paid-as-you-go system. In the self-employed system, women will be almost 14 times less likely than men to see their pension increase, it is written black and white in the draft vote. In the mixed system, they will be nearly five times fewer than men. But we escaped the worst. Indeed, for a moment there was a question of questioning the assimilated periods. The impact on women would have been even more dramatic. I'm opening a parenthesis about that. Is this reversal proof that similar periods will not be called into question tomorrow? Unfortunately, I have some doubts. Minister, increasing certain minimum pensions, even if it is modest and unfair, may seem attractive. However, we must put things in perspective. Your government has chosen an index jump that has saved almost 775 million euros on the backs of social recipients. You promised to fix that index jump socially. To that end, you announced an envelope of EUR 127 million. Finally, there are only 50 left, 25 of them for minimum pensions. This does not allow you to correct the effect of the index jump, but only to increase by 0.7% certain pensions to cover an index jump which, on the other hand, cost 2%, so three times more, to all pensioners. This 25 million will not make it possible to offset the tax shift, the tax increases or the increase in the VAT on electricity for pensioners. The calculation is simple: an increase of 0.7% amounts to about 8 euros gross per month for few people, while the index jump represents a loss of 22 euros per month and your tax increases represent a loss of about 27 euros per month, i.e. a total of 50 euros less per month. The calculation is quickly done: 8 euros of winnings for a few and 50 euros of lost for all. How it is the formula of the moment: stop lying! Do not say that the increase in minimum pensions will be greater under your government than under its predecessor, in which Elio Di Rupo and Laurette Onkelinx served. That's not true! You make the most fragile and, especially, women suffer the consequences of your policy of absurd and blind austerity. I'm glad some pensioners have 8 more euros a month. But your bill is unfair because it is insufficient and discriminatory. That's why my group will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u297	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as part of the preparation of the 2016 budget, the government had decided to devote an envelope of 50 million to correct the impact of the tax shift. This allocation was allocated in equal shares, on the one hand to increase the purchasing power of beneficiaries of social integration income, on the other hand to increase the smallest pensions. That is the second aspect we are dealing with today. In fact, within a defined budgetary framework of 25 million, the government has decided to allocate this amount to the revalorisation of the lowest pensions, both for private and self-employed pensions. In this context, the rise in the lowest pensions of 0.7%, which corresponds to more than eight euros per month at the rate of isolation, is a strong signal to our pensioners who need it most. This measure will also strengthen the link between the career provided and the amount of the pension. For this year, the pensioners concerned will therefore receive a catch-up premium in December. And as of 2017, this revalorisation will be paid monthly. This is a kind of social pension bonus, as the Minister pointed out, which will complement the measures taken in the context of using the 2015-2016 welfare envelope. In addition, the King will be empowered to provide for an increase of up to 10 per cent and to ease career conditions up to 43/45th or equivalent fraction, if he considers it feasible. Before concluding, I would like to add that both the Council of State and some of my colleagues, including Mr Daerden, have questioned the penalizing and discriminating nature of this measure vis-à-vis women. It seems to me important to recall that, on the contrary, this measure will be all the more beneficial for women pensioners in the private sector, since it takes account of similar periods. But it must be borne in mind that, while many women have lower pensions today, the problem does not come from pensions but is at the level of careers. It is precisely at the career level that discrimination must be addressed. Finally, on the issue of consultation, let me regret that a unanimous opinion could not be delivered. However, this measure is deeply social and, thanks to it, more than 150,000 pensioners will once again see their pension increase. It's unfortunate, but that's how it is. However, as the Minister has already done, I call on the social partners to get involved in the near future and to make proposals for the allocation of the welfare envelope 2017-2018 to raise the lowest pensions. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that, yes, we have abolished the pension bonus which benefited a small part of pensioners for an amount of EUR 18 million to grant it to pensioners who need it the most up to EUR 25 million. It is a choice made by the government that we fully support because it is a deeply social project.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u298	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, of course, this bill provides for an increase in the lowest pensions, but this increase is so small that it fails to compensate for the other restrictions on purchasing power that affect these small pensions. I regret that by announcing a goal of improving the lowest pensions, the government has not taken the opportunity to pay more attention to the plight of women. I would like to recall that 55 per cent of women meet the minimum pension requirement, compared with 94 per cent of men. So, even if the minimum pension amount was significantly increased, which is unfortunately not the case, it would not solve the problem of women who fail to qualify for it. Of course, the discrimination of women against the pension is not recent and can be explained by several factors. They often have an incomplete career and pay 20 per cent less than men. There are 44 per cent of women workers who are part-time compared to only 9 per cent of workers. As a result, many of them struggle to have a career that is sufficiently full to be able to access a decent pension. The 2015 reform has aggravated discrimination, as extending the retirement age to 67 years without corrective action is still making conditions more difficult for women. This project further widens the gap between those with a full career and others, since it provides for an increase of 0.7% in the minimum pensions granted for 45 years of actual work or similar periods. They will still face the greatest difficulty in accessing this meagre improvement in the minimum pension. There is still no corrective action, although one could, for example, have hoped for compensation in terms of the right to a minimum pension. The Council of State gave a critical opinion before concluding: "This condition, which is unfavourable for women, should be removed. The budgetary arguments cannot convince." For these reasons, and despite the slight increase in the proposed minimum pension, we will choose to abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u299	Mr. Speaker, ladies and gentlemen, I just want to remind you of the scope of this bill. The aim is to provide a budget complement to the adjustment of the minimum pensions which took place within the framework of the welfare envelope. I am often told that the welfare envelope is automatic, that I have no control over it, that it is the social partners who determine it. I therefore wonder why, during the previous parliamentary term, only 250 million had been spent on minimum pensions, whereas under this parliamentary term, within the framework of the welfare package, 500 million euros had been allocated, exactly twice as much! In the previous legislature, therefore, minimum pensions have increased by 1.25% under this welfare package, while here they have increased by 2% and are now added 0.7 % for full careers. We are therefore for the minimum pensions with full career, increased from 1.25% under the Di Rupo government to 2.7% under the current government. That's the reality! We don't know how to invent anything about it. That's the reality. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u300	But if that's the reality! You wouldn't at least be able to prove the opposite. No. Or else you don't know the matter well, but it's the strict reality. We spent exactly $250 million in the 2013–14 wellness envelope and $500 million in the 2015–16 wellness envelope. Exactly double, twice as much! Here, therefore, there is an additional 25 million, again for minimum pensions, but also taking into account the need to strengthen the link between career and pension. Therefore, it is true that full careers are given priority in the context of minimum pensions. I would like once again to say that the thesis that we discriminate against women is absolutely out of the way! It's quite the opposite. Discrimination, the difference in access to the minimum pension between women and men, is rooted in the minimum pension mechanism. But this has always been the case, and the social partners have always accepted this without blundering, and I wonder why sometimes. It is true that when we make the total of access to minimum pensions, there are many more men who are entitled to the minimum pension than women. But it has nothing to do with this project. It is the cross of the mechanism in place and that is why it needs to be changed. We will also make additional proposals to improve access to the minimum pension. I note that today, in order to have access to the minimum pension, you must, for example, have 30 years of 208 days (two thirds of a career), plus 15 years of 52 days a year, thus 7,020 days, exactly 50% of the total career of 14,040 days. This makes it possible to receive the 0.7% extra. So I would still like to put things into perspective. Of the 76,000 employees, 52,000 are women and 24,000 are men. That's the reality! However, it is true that this is not the case among the independents. Why? Because it was only in 2005 that the status of assisting spouse was recognized. Prior to this, there were no assisting spouses and there were far fewer assimilated periods and far fewer assimilations among women. And what does the government do? He introduced a bill to improve maternity leave and increase the equivalent period of maternity leave. This has never been done by previous governments and will be done by this government. It is also the possibility of increasing assimilations when, for example, an independent person has to look after a spouse or family member who requires community care. This Government is taking these steps to improve the total number of possible assimilations for women. We are well aware of what needs to be done in this area. The pension plan cannot be asked to solve all career problems. It's a little late when we get to the pension. We're not going to change the career retroactively, I don't see how we can do it. It is necessary to work on careers and assimilations so that, gradually, there is some catching-up. I would point out that among the self-employed, the recognition in 2005 of the status of the assisting spouse will gradually improve women's access to the minimum pension. But it takes some time, it's not going to happen right away. As always with regard to pensions, there is a time lag. Career measures are only passed on to the pension after a number of years. Everyone can understand that. The interest of the measure may sometimes seem too weak, I would not ask for a further increase, but it must be put in context. In the wellness envelope, we made an effort that doubled the effort made under the previous government. Here we add 25 million. Since we are sometimes made the trial of having removed the bonus-board and therefore it has a sort of paradox to come with a measure of this nature, I would add that 25 million, it may seem weak, but it is more than the budget that would have been spent on the bonus-board. The budget saved when the pension bonus was abolished is 18 million. It's 7 million more here. I recall that the bonus board was also for full careers, as is the case today for the allocation of those 25 million. I would also like to say to Mrs Caprasse that, contrary to this permanent misinformation, I think it is quite simple to understand arithmetical rules. The extension of the legal age of the pension to 67 years while maintaining the duration of the career to 45 years, therefore not to 47 years, means that for all women who precisely do not have a full career, working up to 67 years will represent two 45ths of pension in addition. It's mathematical! It is not a political doctrine, it is factual. We must stop this misinformation that has no interest, except to distract people from anxiety and anxiety. Is it favoring people's fate to blacken their future on purpose? I don't think so. Perhaps a little more humanity is needed in assessing the policies we are pursuing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u301	I would just like to make a small reply to your last intervention, minister. We abstain, we are not against it. It's one thing already. As you know from the beginning, DéFI has never been against extending the pension age. I simply drew attention to the constant problem that women are disadvantaged. It's not as alarmist as you think.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u302	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u303	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1890/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1890/4) The draft law has 14 articles. The bill has 14 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u304	Art. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... • 7 – Catherine Fonck (1890/5) Art. 9 • 8 - Catherine Fonck (1890/5) Art. 10 • 9 - Catherine Fonck (1890/5) Art. 11 • 10 - Catherine Fonck (1890/5) Art. 12 • 11 - Catherine Fonck (1890/5) Art. 13 • 12 - Catherine Fonck (1890/5) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u305	******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u306	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u307	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u308	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1862/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1862/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u309	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u310	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 154: Olivier Maingain, Véronique Caprasse - 156: Olivier Maingain, Véronique Caprasse - 258: Ö zlem Ö Zen, E ric Massin, Karine Lalieux - 1409: Goedele Uyttersprot, Sophie De Wit, Sarah Smeyers, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to this bill and these legislative proposals. I suggest that you have a single discussion on this bill and these bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u311	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mrs Becq and Mrs Özen, both of whom refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u312	Thank you, Minister, for coming here at this late hour. However, within the framework of the coalition agreement, you have found a balanced compromise with a view to reforming the second-line legal assistance system, while at the same time balancing the interests of a number of groups. First of all, there is the interest of the seeker himself, in the present case he who does not have the financial opportunity to pay for legal assistance. Furthermore, lawyers must also be properly compensated for the quality of their services. Finally, as a minister, you must guarantee access to the law, which is a constitutional right, within the confines of the budget, taking into account its impact on the taxpayer, who makes the contribution, so that everyone has access to the right. The affordability of the system has been under pressure for some fifteen years due to a huge increase in the number of files. Since 2003, the budget has tripled from 23 million euros to around 75 million euros. Two further invoices will be added from this autumn onwards, the first as a result of the extension of the Salduz legislation, which applies to any assistance and not only to the first hearing, the second as a result of the migration crisis since last summer. According to our group, the affordability of the pro-Deo system can only be maintained if we work on two tracks. On the one hand, there is the approach to abuse by both judges and lawyers. They may be minimal, but we still have to bet on it. On the other hand, we need a structural adjustment of what is now called a half-open, but usually closed envelope. The reform is already working on the fight against abuse and overconsumption. This extends the scope for sanctions against lawyers. We are no longer following a black-and-white process, either on the list or on the list; there are possibilities for suspension. There are also the flat-rate contribution, the so-called brake money, and the means test. From now on, all means of subsistence, all assets will count and not just income. We welcome that. We have also tabled a number of legislative proposals with accompanying measures which will be added to the chapter on computerisation, which will reach us after the recess in the Justice Committee. The framework is here now. Of course, a number of tools should also be provided to the Legal Assistance Offices in order to check the means of subsistence. Give the staff of these offices access to the databases so that they can carry out the resource test effectively. We continue to share concerns about fair and fair remuneration for lawyers. This will not only benefit lawyers, but also those seeking redress who are entitled to qualitative assistance. Such qualitative assistance should be safeguarded and guaranteed. Unfortunately, in the last ten years, this remuneration has remained unchanged. The draft law establishing the second-line assistance fund now provides for a structural adjustment of the semi-open envelope. This proposal, which was already discussed in the previous legislature, has already been explained and discussed and will shortly be voted on in committee. We are pleased that we now have the support of the majority and hopefully also of the opposition. For the rest, we are still in favour of a single central database for the agencies, a structural periodic review of the nomenclature, which will be amended in the near future, and an external random monitoring of performance. We may also be able to look at a kicked-off brake charge, a point that has been touched in committee for a moment, at the first evaluation. The most important thing, I believe, is that after the reform, the pro-Deo system is reserved for those who really need it. Responding to the law and the service attorney is paramount.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u313	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you good morning as we have passed midnight. We were told not to know whether we should intervene on Wednesday or Thursday. I was told, "Tomorrow." We're already on Thursday... for a case as important as the "pot-pourri" project, I remember having also intervened during the night. Either, truce of jokes! Access to justice, ladies and gentlemen, is a fundamental right in our society. It ensures that everyone, regardless of his or her level of income, can bring his or her case before the courts and can, therefore, simply defend himself or herself. Without accessible justice, the laws we vote on would remain a dead letter. This is one of the sine qua nons of our rule of law. Conflict resolution cannot be abandoned to the arbitrariness and the law of the strongest. It is therefore also a guarantee of equality between all citizens. If only the most wealthy had the means to enforce their rights, the rights of the poorest would be hollow concepts. That is why the state has an obligation, Minister, to guarantee and organize this access to justice for all through legal aid. As has been pointed out on several occasions, it is a fundamental public service in democracy, whose access cannot be restricted, even in the name of budgetary considerations. However, nothing is free and the current system is not perfect. We know that perfectly. Already today, many litigants are, in fact, excluded from legal aid, since because of the scales, they are considered too rich to be able to benefit from legal aid when they are in fact too poor to afford the services of a lawyer. In addition, lawyers also face difficulties, as they sometimes have to wait more than a year before being paid. We know, moreover, that the amount they are supposed to receive remains uncertain, to the extent that the field associations denounce the inability to find lawyers who are sufficiently specialized in complex matters. The lawyers' councils believe that the point should reach a value of 75 euros to be fair then, that today it oscillates around 25 euros. The closed envelope, which is the current system, would require that the number of files processed by legal aid offices be divided by three to reach that amount. The moderator ticket will never allow you to meet this request. The only certainty offered by this project is the exclusion of some citizens from effective access to justice, as the moderator ticket will play its role and moderate access to justice for certain segments of the population. The only consideration of this exclusion will be financial and will in no way be related to the quality of the remedy that would be abusive. Yet the moderator ticket is sold to us as a necessity to combat abusive remedies. It would even be these abuses that would explain the annual increase in the use of legal aid. It is, in any case, as we are told and the subject has been discussed in the committee. This is what bothers me the most: the poor would abuse gratuity to launch procedures at all-va and for no valid reason. As is often the case in the Justice Committee, the hearings were not without interest. Indeed, on this occasion both the "Justice for All" platform and the two bar associations contradicted the government. The number of "for nothing" appeals – as you called it – to legal aid is insignificant. And no, there is no overconsumption! The abuses are at the margin and insignificant, this has been pointed out several times. So what is the point of creating a moderator ticket if there is almost no abuse and when there is abuse, they can be ruled out by the legal aid office on the basis of article 508/14 of our Judicial Code. As I have already said in committee, the conflicts that will now escape the courts and tribunals are small conflicts, small injustices, either by the sum or by the interests at stake. In the government's view, these small cases are not of interest to justice. We wonder what's in it! What is a small conflict and, above all, what outcome will these small conflicts have? Again, I find myself forced to recall an obvious fact: behind an unpaid electricity bill, there are often choices and unfortunately sacrifices. Those who find it most difficult to make ends meet are also those who do not know their rights the most. However, the moderator ticket will amplify the defences in court without a lawyer. Today, given the increasing complexity of the law, to end up in court without a lawyer is to fall into an arena without a weapon or a shield. How can one refer to procedural failures or limitation periods without the training of a lawyer? I also had the opportunity to remind you in committee. The many "pots-pumps" and the reforms that you have undertaken increasingly require that grievances can be reported when we go to appeal. There is a growing demand for technical knowledge when we no longer have the means to afford a lawyer. We believe that the majority is no longer in reality, since seeking help in the face of a trial is already a path full of pitfalls. The "Justice for All" platform reminded him. The embarrassment, shame and ignorance of one's own rights and alternative solutions hinder the justiciable in his actions. Here, the government adds a financial barrier that can only worsen the situation. The gap between reality and the ivory tower in which you seem to live is even greater when Members say that 50 or 100 euros is a symbolic amount. When you know that people can't close their end of month and calculate, 50 euros claimed at each level of the procedure, it's not a symbolic sum. The moderator ticket reinforces a justice experienced as exclusively punitive by the weakest. Some social categories are also aware of injustice, for lack of means, but they are only on the defendant's bench and almost never on the plaintiff's bench. Yet, as we know, justice is never stronger than when it is accessible to all and everyone can freely assert their rights there. Many of us have not failed to recall this, this project is increasingly moving the rightful person away from the lawyer and thus weakens the protective role of the State, its legitimacy and the rule of law. Another reform, the draft provides for consideration to be given to all means of subsistence of the applicant and not only of his income. Let's face it, the idea is quite attractive. Is it really logical for annuitants or large owners to benefit from free legal aid? Of course, I don't think so either. But the hearings and the Council of State have raised important questions to which the draft does not answer, to the extent that we are implementing a false idea here. The reform raises two questions. First, what does the concept of means of subsistence cover? Then, once this notion has been defined, how can we verify? To my great regret, there is not yet a cadastre of heritage. It does not appear that the government has planned to introduce one at an early stage. So, who is this new definition going to weigh on? Minister, you have announced for the coming year a bill that will organize the exchange of information between the legal aid offices and the administration. I admit, this will is commendable. This is a very ambitious step on your part. But we have reason to be skeptical, as we are still awaiting, for example, the bill that was to restrict pre-trial detention. We look forward to him. Without a simple and fast process, legal aid offices will first assume the consequences of this new definition. Legal aid offices are misconceived to carry out social surveys, which require the means and skills they unfortunately lack. It is therefore understood that there will be more documentation to be provided by all applicants. In addition to the financial obstacle of the moderator ticket, which I mentioned earlier, there will be an administrative obstacle. It is a further obstacle to access to justice, which will once again discourage many citizens from asserting their rights or simply from defending themselves in court. In committee, Minister, you have not been able to give us figures on the 215,000 files processed each year by legal aid offices. How many have been for the benefit of people whose livelihoods would have allowed them to make direct use of a lawyer, all these famous cases where there was abuse? Is the administrative burden on all applicants justified in view of the abuse of some? It has also been said, and you know that we do not fail to recall it when positive elements appear in your projects, there are positive advances such as the broadening of disciplinary powers and the control of bars. However, my group and I cannot support this text because the government is proposing a project that fundamentally impedes access to justice by weakening our rule of law. It is at the opposite ends of the very notion of solidarity. It requires solidarity but between the poor in order to better exempt the incomes of the most affluent. It's really something that bothered me and came back in loop during the commissions, the lowest is presumed cheater and profiter while all the actors on the ground agree that the number of abuses is insignificant. They reminded him, Mrs. Uyttersprot, the abuses are on the margin. We cannot therefore support this text, which is fundamentally anti-social.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u314	Mr President, Mrs Özen, as I said just now, the budget has tripled between 2003 and 2013, in ten years' time, while the number of files has not increased at all. That is not a myth, it is a mathematical calculation: those who rely on the system start more cases than they used to. They take the court more quickly than they used to. That's a statement. In connection with these abuses, we do not say that half of the users of the system are both lawyers and judges. It's about the fact that there are abuses. Many members of the Justice Commission have worked pro bono, they know that people with the smallest claims come to the office, often with claims of EUR 50, for which a paying customer does not come to the office either. There's frivolous appeal. I understand that for some people that brake money will be a lot of money, I understand that. However, justice is not cheap. The barrier is there for everyone. No one goes to the Justice Department for fun. For someone who earns EUR 1 500 and has to pay EUR 1 000 for divorce, that is also very much money, and he does not enjoy it. But he's gonna have to pay for that, too. If a small flat-rate contribution is requested here now, that is very reasonable. Exceptions will also be provided for. So I do not think we are inhumane here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u315	You are actually justifying the increase in pro deo files by an abuse. I hear you say "small business" or "the lawyers and the litigant who resorts to all-va" should be held accountable. Controls already exist. You're talking about pro deo. When I was doing pro deo, we were there waiting for people and, when they came, their conditions were checked. Lawyers are not going to file appeals for the pleasure of filing appeals. At one point, as with any lawyer, it is questioning their loyalty and also their intellectual honesty. Whether it's pro deo or not, a lawyer will never encourage his client to initiate a procedure that will make him waste time and money. It may be that, sociologically, people make much more recourse to justice because they find it difficult to settle their disputes amicably. It's one thing. I'm not explaining it to you. I'm not a sociologist. But to say that the increase is due to abuses, in this case the abuse of those who cannot afford, the weakest and those who use pro deo, is unacceptable! This was recalled by the Bar Association, by the "Justice for All" platform, which still includes twelve associations. They said the abuses were on the margins. I'm not saying it, it's that platform.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u316	Mr President, I would like to say to Mrs Uyttersprot that the Court of Auditors has provided us with the answer to the question it raises as to the increase in the budget needed for legal aid. She gave us three reasons to explain the explosion. The first is the economic crisis that has hit an already precarised class, which is more so today and which is more numerous. The second reason is the explosion of the files due to the introduction of the Salduz law into our legal system, which uses the lawyer in the legal aid framework from the first hearing in police stations. Finally, the third explanation is a slight increase in the ceiling from which legal aid was granted. These are three objective reasons which have been pointed out by the Court of Auditors. It is not elsewhere that estimates and explanations should be sought.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u317	Mr President, in line with what Mr Brotcorne has just said, which has perfectly summarized what we have heard in committee, I would like to say that we have also noted in committee that this is the only study by the INCC. Mrs Özen, we know the problem of statistics. We have quantitative but never qualitative data, that is to say, behind this sum of files, we do not know the reality. What shocked us in committee was the use of the word "abuse". We really have the impression that abuse always goes one way or the other. We were told in response that we were well aware on the part of the majority that there were sometimes administrative authorities that abused, withdrew acts, and deposited them. It is clear that in this project, the philosophy is that responsibility must be taken on one side. Who do we want to be accountable for? The ones they say they're being abused. It is this unilateral side which is truly shocking and which is not based on any numbers. During the hearings, we heard what was said by the actors on the ground and we did not receive the demonstration that real abuses are being committed as described by the supporters of this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u318	Mr President, Minister, in order for the members of the Justice Committee to arrive on time, the plenary meetings must be held around 00:30. As Mr Cheron said, we are more numerous in committee than in plenary at this time. The debate has already been well conducted, but some elements have not been identified in the context of these first expressions. To hear you, we have the impression that no one will benefit from free access to justice. It's not caricatural. A wide range of conditions are maintained to ensure that individuals who are listed very precisely, in very specific situations, can continue to benefit from free access to justice. I am also very surprised to hear that "accountability" has become a word that cannot be used. It does not seem to me abnormal, in the face of an intellectual act that is being asked, to ask people simply to ask themselves the question of whether we are not going to start legal proceedings. It has been noted that some people sometimes find it unfair, because they are on the other side of this threshold that allows legal aid or not, to say "I have someone in front of me who will enjoy beyond the normal of free justice, when I have to pay". In some cases, this injustice is quite unbearable and difficult for those who, unfortunately, are the victims of it. It has never been said in the majority that the 20, 30, 40 or 50 euros were derisory amounts. I did not hear it in the mouth of my colleagues in the majority or in the head of the minister. We heard from the lawyers who told us to support this project. We have also heard from the legal aid offices that have told us that it is important to maintain the right to individuals, in exceptional circumstances, to receive this free assistance. We are not faced with a blind law, which considers that we only have to make everyone pay for the few people who would have abused the system. That is absolutely not the case here. The will of the law is also to perpetuate, by empowering all those who resort to justice. Accountability is not a big word. We ask, at MR level, and perhaps other groups have done so or will do so, to go further in the work. We have this famous will, which I think is shared, to create an insurance system, which is not easy to create, and which makes it possible to finance this legal action. We're working on it, but it's better to take a little time than to get there with a project that wouldn't be financially viable and that wouldn't work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u319	Mr Goffin, I am pleased that you are addressing this aspect of things. The minister told us that he would probably come in September with an insurance project. However, I would like to draw the attention of those who remain in this Chamber to the fact that, recently, we had the opportunity to vote on a text which the Committee on Justice had unanimously adopted, a proposal which I had tabled and which allowed, for all those who are beyond this ceiling and who cannot access legal aid but for whom the cost of justice remains a barrier, to impose on insurance companies which already practice it for the appointment of a lawyer, to grant this free choice for all other ways of resolving conflicts. This could be aimed at mediators, experts, arbitrators. What has passed as something interesting and important to deal with access to justice. We have seen all of a sudden that following the lobbying of Assuralia, so as not to name them, through a minister in charge of consumer protection, this text has gone back and returned to the Committee of Justice where it will have to be retired when there is a beginning of solution for all that fringe of the population you are talking about. Because at some point a lobby was stronger than a unanimous Justice Committee and a parliament that could vote on this text, it was withdrawn and no progress was made on a subject like this when it cost no one and it allowed some to cover itself against the size of the costs of justice that are those calculated today when we have to start a procedure. That's a shame.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u320	I think we all share the same will to one day achieve a genuine system of legal protection. We're working on it. At some point, we should succeed. As you know, in the Committee on Justice too, we want the proposal to set up this aid fund to be fed up with debates as well. You know the case will come back with the advice of the Council of State. It will not be dealt with next week in committee but the following week, so before the parliamentary holidays. Mr Minister, as you have understood, our group will support your text.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u321	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, much has already been said about this proposal on legal aid. Not only in this but also in the previous legislature, it has been regularly discussed that an amendment of that legal assistance should be possible. On the one hand, assistance must be kept affordable and access guaranteed, but on the other hand, compensation must be paid to lawyers. It's a discussion that doesn't date today. Many of the proposals included in this draft law were already examined during the previous legislature. They are also proposals made from the legal profession. I will be brief, Minister. I will only talk about the elements that we welcome. You continue to guarantee accessibility and this despite the fact that the brake money is not exclusively related to abuse, as one wants to make appear. I have gone into the report on the basis of a search, how often the word "abus" was used, and indeed I found it very often, especially among the members of the opposition and once with one of the majority. The people of the platform also used the word often. In the long run it is said that the brake money is there to prevent the abuses. I believe that the brake money has not only come to combat abuses. However, there is a need to introduce a certain degree of accountability, as is the case with health insurance. At the same time, I would like to point out that the text states that a number of persons are exempt from payment of the contribution. In addition, an exemption from the contribution is provided for if the accumulation of procedures would result in less accessibility or if the amount would be too high. Then it can be decided that no brake fee will be paid. Accessibility is thus guaranteed despite the introduction of a certain degree of accountability. Moreover, this accountability applies both to the law-abiding and to the law-abiding. There is also a certain quality control and the possibility for the lawyer to indicate that he is no longer able to provide added value in the procedure. He is also being responsive to the research of resources, which is also an important element. We are also pleased that you are explicitly emphasising mediation, Minister. People always say there's too many lawsuits. There are indeed a number of factors that lead to more lawsuits. I'm thinking about Salduz. Moreover, we live in a society in which everything is juridized and in which people often talk less to each other, while at the same time we consider mediation important. This aspect is also reflected in this draft, which specifically asks for brake money for the lawyer and at the same time also for the procedures. This means that it should not be paid in the event of mediation. We hope, however, that this will continue in the nomenclature, with clear points being given when the conciliation procedure takes place. Mediation can sometimes take longer and be more intense than just a procedure. I think it is important to include this accent in the nomenclature. The emphasis is also on those who have a slightly higher income than those currently eligible for legal aid. You are giving the perspective of legal aid insurance. We look forward to that, although it is not a simple matter. After all, we must avoid introducing more procedures because we have legal aid insurance. There, too, we must look for a mechanism of response. Finally, I believe that it is equally important that we also touched upon this during the discussion that first-line assistance should be developed in a good way in conjunction with the Communities. In doing so, people can be prevented from starting procedures too much or too easily, while this is not always necessary. They can also agree, together, on the basis of clear information and services in first-line assistance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u322	Minister, we cannot but express our disappointment at the present draft on second-line legal assistance, following a number of speakers during the hearings. It is clear that both the representatives of the lawyer and the representatives of the entitled party had serious reservations about the draft. The great advantage that we find in your design is that it will eliminate possible abuses of the system by charging all means of subsistence in future in order to enjoy the pro-Deo system or not. It is just not clear to us how the means of subsistence will be taken into account. That is a thought which has also been raised by the Council of State, because its implementation will be laid down by royal decree and a precise text of it will therefore be withheld from the committee. The low income limits for access to the pro-Deo system do not change anything. It is true, however, that a so-called brake charge, which has already been discussed in detail here, is being introduced as a result of the user of pro-Deo assistance. In itself, this can be justified in order to point out to the user that he enjoys a public service and that it is purely symbolic. However, the question arises as to whether the amounts mentioned, in particular EUR 20 for the mere appointment of the lawyer and EUR 30 per instance, are still so symbolic for someone with a very modest income and, for example, rent costs. In any case, we understand the fears voiced by the organisations speaking for everyone on behalf of Law that even more people than they do now will fail if they have to stand up for their rights or if they want to defend themselves with the assistance of a lawyer. Those who may also drop out in the future are the lawyers themselves. A very clear warning came from the counters that lawyers leave the pro-Deo system because the compensation for this assistance, which is paid out another year and a half after the performance, would not be viable socio-economically. In any case, there is a fear that the legal profession will have to settle for years to come for a fee of EUR 25 per point, while it itself puts a fee of EUR 75 per point as a wage to work. In addition, the profession, and indeed a few majority parties, expressed the concern about the announced but once again unknown reform of that point system. In short, Minister, you are asking Parliament to adopt a draft law on which there are still many questions. We understand that you are asking the majority for confidence, but you cannot expect the same attitude from us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u323	Ladies and gentlemen, we have been waiting for this debate for a number of hours, but we have not resisted the pleasure of staying at the sitting, Mr Minister, to talk about a subject that concerns us: justice. The circumstances are very different from the commission. I feel like I'm taking you from the top. While in committee, we have had the opportunity to clarify several elements both through hearings and debates. It seems to me that there is a relative consensus, despite everything, beyond the right minority that we are and the wicked majority that you are, to recognize that the issue of access to justice, especially for the most disadvantaged, is an important issue in our society. During the hearings, we were able to hear at least two camps: the camp of those with whom you had clearly negotiated: the representatives of the Bar Associations and the Others. The former seemed rather pleased with the agreement they had reached, since, in a context of closed envelopes and thus of a relative decrease in the financial level due to a sharp increase in the number of cases but also to the impact of the Salduz law enforcement, among other things, in a context also where it seems increasingly difficult to find lawyers who are embarking on the pro deo, the negotiation focused on the idea that a legal aid fund may eventually exist next to the budget, which is included each year in a closed envelope. Mr Minister, I think that in the discussion, although constructive and interesting, we find ourselves not with two texts but with one text. What's going on? On the one hand, we have a project that includes an accountability process. I agree, the project does not refer to "facilitator ticket". Rather, it was an external convenience that called him that. Who and what do we really want to moderate? But there is a process of accountability to combat what some call abuse. But this process, which is being implemented in your text, actually consists in making sure that the number of actions taken and the number of procedures initiated are reduced. Are the results qualitative? In this way, are we addressing those who need it most in our society? It still remains a riddle. For the bars with which you negotiated, the obsession was to have this text voted so that it would apply on 1 September this year. You must, Minister, probably still draft orders following the vote we are waiting for on this text, which must be taken before the implementation on 1 September. On the other hand, let us talk about the other negotiation, Mr Minister, the one I call the Other, which took place within your majority! And you had the good taste of leaving this to the parliamentarians. I wasn't there. I don't know how it happened, but in view of the result, I think it wasn't simple. Today, we end up with a single text and you have to tell those with whom you negotiated, namely the representatives of the lawyers, the promise that was behind the text, "the carrot and the stick". Yes, the expression is often used, Mr. Miller, but that's still the best I've found! I looked in the books, but "the flesh is sad, alas!" We still had to find a carrot, and this beautiful carrot was a budget fund. This fund is on the Council of State. And this fund would only be financed by criminal fines, and there are some questions as to whether all this is legally correct. We'll read the Council of State's opinion. However, today, Mr Minister, when we vote on this text, where Mr Miller may vote on it, we will have to explain to the lawyers that the famous promised fund is for the moment a chimera which, perhaps at the appropriate time, will one day take the form of a real fund, fed into it we do not know how and which, moreover, will contain an unknown number of euros. Behind this is the question of the value of the point and the value of what you have negotiated. I have the impression that the lawyers you have negotiated with must ask themselves a number of questions today because your majority obviously took a lot of time and had a lot of difficulty in agreeing on this fund, creating it and implementing it. Behind that, of course, there is a whole series of other questions. We're talking about the second line here. I was particularly interested in what Mrs Becq said, which was also sensitive to the argument on the first line and to the fact that speakers at the hearings told us that this too is a competence of the Communities, but in this country a little complicated, a little hybrid, there are still institutional negotiations which leave small pebbles at other levels of power. The little rock is the Judicial Code. The article dealing with front-line legal aid is still an article of the Judicial Code that can be developed here in the federal government. And then, Mr Minister, we heard everything you said in committee about the fact that you were going to contact the Communities. One can only commit to it, especially since the issue of access to justice is often also a matter of language. The choice of words and their scope is also the ability to find them even before the lawyers. Good if there are lawyers and pro deo lawyers, but upstream, it may be better to avoid them. Sometimes it's very good. Avoiding legal proceedings while finding the right recognition of the grievances that one had, is always a win for the citizens but also for the whole world of justice. I therefore believe that the first line is a very important element. As you have understood, we do not like this text because we have the impression that it is too much oriented towards accountability, on abuses, on everything that has been described as negative and that some have again stressed here and that we have already mentioned in committee. We have tabled amendments which are quite similar to those tabled in committee. We feel like there's one last chance. It is minimal, but we will try it, to ensure that we do not always put the weight of this accountability on the same. The real challenge, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, is the evolution of the pro deo in the future, the ability to inspire vocations. This is the most important, beyond the discussions we have today. Will the system you are putting in place tomorrow be attractive enough, effective enough for lawyers to have enough candidates in the world, people who have the vocation to say to themselves: this is an important job that needs to be done for the good of society, for the need of the precarised? I think that's the most important thing, the one we'll have to remember. I hope that beyond the text – this one, but also the second one, the one that is always expected, the one that is in substance – we will have the capacity, ladies and gentlemen, to evaluate. We have no doubt that this text will be adopted by the majority. But tomorrow we will have to try to understand the results that its application will generate. I hope that, very quickly, we will put in place the tools to better understand reality. You know my concern with statistics, not for themselves, but to enable us to better understand the real, to better understand what is behind the figures: the misery of some citizens, the difficulty of access to justice; and to check whether, yes or no, there is an improvement in the possibility, in our society, for the most disadvantaged, of access to justice, and of maintaining this fundamental right, as defined in our Constitution. As you will understand, we will not approve your text. We have tabled amendments and you know our objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u324	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have the feeling that we are discussing a very important subject in a backyard of shopkeepers. Congratulations to those who still stand by and are still there to follow our work! We're talking about legal aid. What is it all about? It is a mechanism that must allow those who can claim to have access to justice, regardless of their state of fortune. It is an individual right, it is a personal right, it is a recognized right that must be available to all those living in our territory. It is a beautiful symbol that legal aid, where a profession is at the service of the most deprived of society and arranges itself or, in any case, was set up a few years ago as a free professional organization to help this category of litigants. At one point, the State had joined this effort by financing part of it. Today, we have a big problem, which everyone admits: that of the available budget envelope. Why? Because, as was recalled earlier, there's an explosion of files. This must be met, access to justice must be guaranteed to those who are entitled to it as long as they meet the conditions for legal aid and, lastly, a decent remuneration for those who provide the service, mainly lawyers. That is the point, and we must try to find political solutions. One can imagine that these solutions require a refinancing of legal aid. Without refinancing, there is no sustainability of the system, Minister, when it is something that you very much care about. There is a risk of missing out on that other element that you also care about, the social dimension of justice. When we see the text proposed to us, the preamble, the motivation, the discussions in committee, we have the feeling that those who support this text consider that they can only do so in the way they do it because, if there is danger in the house, it is because there is overconsumption. We haven't heard the word "abuse" much, but the word "overconsumption". I will say this in a caricatural way: the poor who can claim legal aid are, by nature, people who overconsumption and appeal to justice for everything and for nothing when it is not always justified. This over-consumption may therefore need to be reordered. At the same time, it seems to some that some lawyers who provide legal aid exaggerate in the proceedings so as to accumulate points. And which says accumulation of points means accumulation of fees. It is felt that these two problems, probably minimal, form the basis of the proposed text. What are the recommended solutions? Responsabilize, as others said before me. Responsible for who? Users, the poor, lawyers, service providers. Also diverting the maximum of what can be done; alternative ways of resolving conflicts, which we support. But there is no trace of funding for these alternative methods of conflict resolution. We want to get them out of court so they don't get into legal aid or anything. These will be procedures that will no longer have to be followed, but aside from that, there are no means of financing planned. Because the real problem is financing. What are you proposing, Minister? What does the majority propose in relation to this, once they have made their findings, identify those responsible for which we should review things? Accountability is the question of whether "I, the public authority, refinance legal aid" In the draft submitted to us today, I see nowhere any trace of a budgetary commitment by the Belgian Federal State to sustain the legal aid system and perhaps to consider its development. In fact, as I said in committee, the state is withdrawing from legal aid. He'll guarantee the current envelope, we'll stay within a closed envelope. But to try to tinker with some recipes that will allow this system to continue to live worthless, you come with the idea of involving the beneficiaries in the financing of this legal aid. This is probably called a moderator ticket, but it is not known whether it will be 10 or 50 euros. You leave the possibility of setting the rate by royal decree. You also imagine that bar associations will have to deepen the checks that they will make of the means of living of the person likely to benefit from legal aid, which will lead to an overload of work. And the third element which, as Mr Cheron said, is not available today: the creation, on a parliamentary proposal, of a legal aid fund which would be the sole responsibility of those convicted of criminal offences. This text is not here today. It will probably be discussed again in a few weeks or at the beginning of the year, depending on the time that the Council of State will take to respond to us and on the work of our committee. Today, we are discussing legal aid without knowing what its funding will be and we will discuss it again at that time. So we'll work twice on the same subject. Your answer is not a budgetary and financial response, although you make this a financial problem. Your answer is made of symbols. That's a word I heard. These are symbols we're gonna hang up on. I propose to review them quickly because many things have already been said. The first of these symbols is the need for recipients to participate in this funding of legal aid. This is the introduction of this contribution, so as not to speak of "facilitator ticket", at the expense of the beneficiaries and therefore of the poorest. We are far from sharing the cost of access to justice. This particular access to justice, which is that of legal aid, is weighed on those who benefit from it, at least in part. It is not only said that this intervention will exist at the time of the appointment of counsel for the first consultation, but it will be repeated as many times as there will be any procedural acts that may be taken in this case. So it's not once but it can be two or even three times that this moderator ticket will be claimed. Mr Minister, you have not been able to be insensitive and deaf to everything that has been said during the hearings by the representatives of these people who are the beneficiaries of social assistance and for whom, whether it is 10 euros or a maximum of 50 euros, it is an expenditure which is considerable and whose effect is indeed likely to be that they will not seek legal aid to initiate legal proceedings or perhaps even to defend themselves in a judicial procedure which is being brought against them. Because they'll consider it an expense they can't afford. It is a barrier to access to justice for a class of taxpayers, while such access to justice is a constitutional right that must be guaranteed. This is why the imposition of a contribution is shocking because it places an intervention in financing at the expense of the already disadvantaged beneficiary and because it will probably hinder him in access to justice, which must be guaranteed. That is the very principle of legal aid. I know that your trend and the tendency of the majority and the government is to say that the less legal proceedings, with or without legal aid, the fewer interventions to be made in the funding of the federal justice service. There may be fewer magistrates, probably fewer employees, fewer hearings to spend on them, and thus fewer costs. The idea is to make sure that as few things as possible happen to a judge. If it is replaced by other types of conflict resolution, it is a hypothesis that can be considered. But if we just say that this is a hypothesis that is being considered without being able to finance it – I am thinking for example of mediation – it doesn't make much sense. Access to justice is therefore jeopardized by the imposition of this contribution. Like other colleagues, I will therefore resubmit an amendment to delete Article 7 or, in any case, that part of the article which is intended to impose this contribution which, for me and for my group, is a significant social step backwards. Everyone here knows very well that it is not this measure that will contribute to the financing and the much-needed refinancing of legal aid. I turn to the second aspect: the remuneration of the lawyer. Mr. Minister, you will admit that we parliamentarians are in absolute vagueness. You tell us that the objective is to guarantee 75 euros as the point value. Today, however, it is set up as part of a closed envelope. We are unable to appreciate it since we do not know the nomenclature which is the basis of the allocation of points. On several occasions in committee, I have asked you for this information and I have asked the chairman of the committee to ask for this document, which is at least under discussion in your cabinet, otherwise you could not come forward with such a text. It would have been interesting for parliamentarians to have had it, because we could have checked whether the promise that was made to the orders that negotiated with you - and that concerned remuneration worthy of the professional act and representative of the performance - was in line with what was desirable. The aim is to ensure a significant participation of lawyers in legal aid and, beyond that, the involvement of competent lawyers who are concerned with ensuring that the client entrusted to them through legal aid is treated as best as possible and can be sure that the lawyer appointed to him or to whom he or she relies will act with all the necessary competence and diligence. In the current state of affairs, parliamentarians are unable to appreciate this system of points and to say whether you have managed to obtain decent remuneration for the bar profession. I doubt that because this is not the first time we have discussed legal aid. During the previous parliamentary term, we had started this discussion with Mrs Turtelboom and at the time, eminent members of our Justice Committee, Mrs Marghem and Mr Bacquelaine, members of that majority, had said all the harm they thought of an unsustainable system with a closed envelope and that it was necessary to guarantee in the law that we would never go below a value of the point set at 30 euros. I would like to be able to check today that we are in the month to what was presented as a minimum at the time. I think that we are not there and that those who, within the bars, believed that they could follow you in the drafting of this text and that we would find an answer to the questions they had been asking for years, will quickly disappoint. I believe that they have already begun to disappoint since the discussions started in committee. With regard to the consideration of livelihoods rather than incomes, all the members of the committee followed you by saying that it was something interesting. It is unacceptable that only the reported or known revenues should be taken into account and that a series of other revenues should be ignored and taken into account. There was an interesting step forward. It may have been a way of fighting what we have described as abuse by some beneficiaries, but here too, we remain a little hungry. Who will appreciate and how will we appreciate these means of living? It will be the bar associations, the legal aid offices that will have to do so. With what capacity for action? You said that they might have access to data banks, but at some point, questions of interpretation will probably be raised and it is again the bars that will have to make this decision with the extra work that I was talking about earlier. The legal aid fund is the real find, but not yours! It is not the government's finding, it is the finding of parliament, it is the finding of certain groups of the majority, of the N-VA in particular, that has tabled this text. Again, if the creation of a fund is a track that, in itself, can be interesting, we are still surprised, Mr.Minister, by the way in which it is constituted. The question was raised as to whether the reflection had been extended far enough so that the mechanism could be of interest. Why limit the provision of this fund to those convicted of criminal offences who will already be sentenced to a criminal fine? You know that this criminal fine is accompanied by legal costs, alongside which we already have a contribution for the fund supposed to compensate victims of intentional acts of violence. And we will now add an additional accessory that will be this condemnation to intervene in the provision of the Legal Aid Fund. Why only criminal convicts, when it is well known that recourse to legal aid is valid in both criminal and civil and labour courts? And why should not those who resort to the judicial system as a whole also intervene in the financing of this fund? There is a risk that one day someone may raise discrimination and that the Constitutional Court will look into the matter. In addition, Minister, you were the Minister of Finance. You know the difficulties we have in recovering the criminal fines. You know the difficulties we have to recover in addition to the costs of justice. And we now think that increasing or condemning something more will guarantee us a better perception! Except to give him a privilege and that the provision of legal aid funds would take precedence over criminal conviction, legal costs or intervention for the funds of victims of intentional acts of violence. If we don't settle this, it will be a bit like your moderator ticket: maybe a few thousand euros will go into the state caisses, but certainly not the manna we expect. We feel a little bit that this too is an answer that was found on a tabletop, very quickly crafted, but that will certainly not allow us to meet the financial means necessary for legal aid to be truly sustainable. And finally, Minister, last item. On the occasion of our committee work - other colleagues have already referred to it - we have talked about front-line legal aid. This element must also be addressed if second-line legal aid is to be avoided. Perhaps, at this early stage, many things could be avoided or many things could be resolved through alternative modes of conflict, through advice that would be judiciously agreed, provided that this front-line assistance is taken into account and valued as well. Minister, you miss out on what could have been a fundamental and founding element of your justice reform policy. We have stopped at a few symbols, like so many trophies that can be displayed to argue that you have fought against overconsumption, abuse and the responsibility of the actors, but you will not have solved the question of the funding of legal aid. As long as this refinancing is not carried out, you are firmly convinced that things will not improve.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u325	Mr President, starting the discussion again at 1:30 a.m. is not really my style, but I appreciate the fact that the committee's colleagues stayed to hear my reply that I still want to respond somewhat to their remarks. First of all, I thank the majority for their support. Secondly, I think there are three words that I did not use in committee. I am not sure because words are easily used, especially when you are a lawyer and are discussed at length in committee. I don't think I said "overconsumption." I do not think I have used the word "abuse" or the word "symbolic" in relation to personal contribution. If I did, it was a mistake.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u326	I didn't say you used those words!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u327	No! But, as a minister, I am still here to listen to you! [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u328	Yes, we're in numbers. But history is pro deo, Mr Cheron because you said earlier that you were not pro deo. History is pro deo. I believe, however, that I have spoken on several occasions in this House about under-consumption of legal services. I can tell you what the report is. It was the night we spent together, Mrs Özen. I can tell you where, because when I first spoke about legal insurance, it was mainly so that those who do not receive legal aid could have access to it. Every time I took over, I said that we made less use of lawyers and legal advice than we should do, so I'm an advocate. There are still other projects. I'm still three years old, Mrs Özen. Either I'm going too fast, or I'm too slow, but it's never good. That's normal. I never said anything about overconsumption. In addition, Mrs Onkelinx was there when we voted, at first reading, in the government, what we called, at the time, a moderator's ticket. As for the royal decree, Mr Cheron, it will, I hope, be approved by the government tomorrow to go to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u329	Demain?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u330	Yes, there is one that must be deliberated in the Council of Ministers. As for the others, the King approves them on his own. You're following very well. The nomenclature requires a ministerial order. Tomorrow, we'll stop an amount of 20 euros, as I said in committee. For the rest, there will be a nomenclature that advocates and promotes mediation, amicable settlement. The lawyer who realizes this must be better paid. In the same way, I've always said it for insurance too. As far as the fund is concerned, you can't say we hid behind his little finger. You know the text and you yourself thought it was really useful to ask for the opinion of the Council of State, which I did not deny. On the other hand, I said that we thought it would pay $15 million. We have never said, I believe, that this would be charged to the amount that the government generally supports. This could therefore be in surplus. The Salduz II which will be voted and which will enter into force before December 1, 2016 will only have to be paid in 2018. If we vote the fund in good time, it will be useful for something. We're in football times. A one-two with the majority in Parliament is not prohibited. Mr Brotcorne, if you were Minister of Justice, I would very much like to table a bill that you would support as Minister of Justice. We never hid anything from each other in that respect. We have always said: 'Here is the text, I support it, it is the text of the majority.' Moreover, it is clear that there is a priority for that fund. You're afraid this fund isn't gonna make much money. I would like to draw your attention to the compensation fund for the victims. There is a priority for these funds over the civil party, for example. You don't ignore it, but I repeat it. As far as livelihoods are concerned, I believe that we have been innovating in relation to this. Everyone agrees that an enumeration of livelihoods in the royal decree is a useful thing to say that in some cases income thresholds will not play; indeed, someone who earns for example less than a minimum income threshold of 954 euros can have such funds on his savings accounts and it would not be justified to give him the favor of legal aid. But we have said very clearly at the same time that the family allowance, the first house, the fact that we have debts, are things that may or may not be taken into account. The first house will not be taken into account as a means of existence. Neither is the family allowance. The fact that we have disproportionate debts can be taken into account, even if we earn more than the minimum income threshold. Finally, as far as the first line is concerned, it is also the responsibility of the Communities and the agenda of 5 September 2016 of the Ministerial Conference of Chambers of Justice already contains this point. The conference will be chaired by Minister Vandeurzen. That's for my few answers. Mr President, those were some of the answers I wanted to offer you in the current interesting nightly debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u331	Are there any members asking for a reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u332	Mr President, I will speak with one word, so as not to give the minister the impression that we have not listened to him religiously. The concept of pro deo has been retained. It's still very risky in an era that is secularized. It's still curious!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u333	Mr Cheron, it was Mrs Uyttersprot who talked about it. Not me. That's why I answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u334	Quite, but you dared to compare football by referring to the bill and the money that is linked to the traditional organic funds of the government. That said, there is the substantive issue. You used the expression "one-two." I wouldn't want that with what we're going to get, ultimately we're out of the game in this case. [[Laughs]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u335	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u336	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1819/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1819/4) The draft law contains 19 articles. The bill has 19 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u337	•22 – Olivier Maingain (1819/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u338	• 25 " Stefaan Van Hecke cs" (1819/6) • 26 и Stefaan Van Hecke cs (1819/6) Annex V.Part 2.124 • 27 и Stefaan Van Hecke cs (1819/6) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u339	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Rules 5, 7, 9 and 19. Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 4, 6, 8, 10 to 18.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u340	******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u341	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 1621: Peter Buysrogge, Denis Ducarme, Karolien Grosemans, Dirk Van Mechelen, Veli Yüksel - 994: Julie Fernandez Fernandez, Sevastian Pirlot, Philippe Blanchart - 1607: Wouter De Vriendt, Benoit Hellings, Marcel Cheron, Anne Dedry. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these three proposals. I propose that you devote one discussion to these three proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u342	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u343	Mr President, I do not think it is necessary for me to read the entire report. I refer to my written report. However, I would like to stress, for the many colleagues who were perhaps not in committee at the time, that three texts have been tabled. We must take into account the work carried out by our colleague Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, by our colleagues Mr. De Vriendt and Mr Hellings, of course, and by our colleague Mr Buysrogge, who is the main author, the first signatory to the proposal to amend the Rules of the House, which was finally adopted by nine votes and one abstention. I wanted to point out that our colleagues had also tabled texts. I'm sticking to the report. I'll just say two words for our group. The MR Group considers this amendment to be important. It concerns the verification and control of the resale of military equipment by the army. This is a case that has often been brought up to date. In particular, between 2002 and 2010, 16 fighter-bombers were resold to Jordan, from frigates to Bulgaria, 166 armoured in Morocco. They are therefore contracts which are not negligible. Between 2009 and 2012, this was the case for 35 demilitarized helicopters and two Airbus A-310 aircraft. The feeling of all who participated in the work was that the regulations were too loose and the controls were too light, even though National Defence had demilitarized the aircraft. But it is clear, and it is a satisfaction, that Parliament will carry out a more in-depth review of these arms resales, including until the identity of a new end-user. It is important to stress this. It also strengthens democratic control.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u344	Mr President, I would like to thank my fellow Members who are still here for their perseverance in attending this evening's important amendment to the Rules of Procedure. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the regions have for some time been largely responsible for arms trade and arms exports, but the federal government has remained competent for the sale of obsolete military equipment. I would also like to thank the reporter, who also took the opportunity to defend the position of the MR, for the comprehensive report he has come here to present. The army often sells obsolete equipment, ranging from clothing to helicopters, aircraft and armoured vehicles. To give you an idea of the size of the number of sales of military equipment, in 2015 the Defence Department sold 3.93 million euros in military equipment. The export of obsolete or redundant military equipment is therefore not an insignificant fact. In the case of resale of military equipment, all actors must be truly known, not only the final buyer, but also the intermediaries. Until today, however, the Special Committee on Army Purchases was not responsible for such sales records. The present proposal seeks to remedy this by giving the special commission responsible for purchasing the army the power to control not only purchases of military equipment in the future, but also their sale. The proposed amendment to Rule 151 of the Rules of Procedure will allow this. The Special Commission on Army Purchases will then amend its rules of procedure and conclude a new administrative protocol with the Minister of Defence. So there is work on the shelf as soon as this regulation is adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment to the Rules of Procedure is an important proposal within the framework of our duty, namely the parliamentary control of the government. Here in this Chamber there is therefore a satisfied committee chairman, whose committee power will be extended. Mr President, I would like to end by thanking you. I would like to thank all those who have contributed constructively to the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, both in the Committee on Defence and in the special committee on the Rules of Procedure. I would also like to thank those who tabled a different proposal, in the same spirit as our proposal, but its practical impact differed. I therefore hope that this amendment will be supported in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u345	I will try not to be too long because this assembly is more and more like a throat cutter. I will greet the thousands of Belgians who are watching us right now in streaming. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, one year is the time it took for this majority to copy a PS text that could have reached consensus. I would therefore like to go back to the whole context of this text of the majority which is before us today and to which, by the force of things, the text of my group is attached. At the meeting of the Committee on Terrorism on 22 April, my group asked to join a proposal by my environmental colleagues on federal powers in the field of weapons, three of our proposals, two of which were to amend the Rules of Procedure of our House. These two texts are intended to guarantee effective control of weapons sold by the federal state, either through the army or through the police. Hearings are currently being held on the latter text and these tend to show its usefulness. With regard to our proposals for an amendment to the Rules of Procedure, it has become clear that, in accordance with Rule 180 of the Rules of Procedure, it is not possible to refer them to a committee other than ours in charge of the Rules of Procedure. And that is where it hurts because we have only seen the procedural impasse in which the Chair of the National Defence Commission put our proposal on the weapons of the army pending for almost a year, probably for fear of having to give a positive opinion on a socialist text. It took us no less than three letters to the Speaker of the House to put this opinion on the agenda of the National Defence Commission. As a reminder, it is June 1, 2015 that we have...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u346	At the risk of repeating the discussion we have had in the various committees: we are not talking about a year that the committee has done about it. The most recent proposal submitted by the PS Group dates from 18 September 2015. That wasn't even a year ago, in my opinion. It is true that I have also said in committee that we could have gone a few weeks or months faster to come up with a proposal approved in the Committee on Defence and in the Rules of Procedure. It's true that we could have gone a few weeks or months faster. I would like to point out to Mr Pirlot that he has been in the majority for years. Apparently, that wasn't necessary for all these years. Now suddenly turning these nine months into a tragedy, when we ourselves have had the opportunity for years to amend the Rules of Procedure, is a little faint.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u347	I do not agree with you at all. I would remind you that three letters have been sent to the Speaker of the House in order to put this opinion on the Defence Committee's agenda. It was on 1 June 2015 that we presented this text. The same commission asked the National Defence Commission on 14 July 2015 to deliver an opinion on our proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure to ensure effective control of the arms trade in the Special Military Purchase Commission. Our text was then the only one on the table of parliament. I would therefore like once again to protest strongly against the attitude of the Chair of the National Defence Commission, whose objective was to block our text and put the same text on the agenda, but by the majority this time, a text signed by the majority of the Chair herself. That must be the strength of change. I have, moreover, placed a great deal of emphasis on this point in committee. This timetable, which proves my point, is reflected in the report of this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u348	Mr Pirlot, you say that the text has simply been adopted, but that is not true. It is not the case that the majority has simply adopted some text. There are three differences between the text of the majority and the texts submitted by the opposition, both by the PS and by Ecolo-Green. Firstly, there is a need for material in the texts. As far as we are concerned, it belongs more to an audience, an open debate, and the Committee on Defence is rather the forum for that debate. For us, this should not be done behind closed doors, but should be done in all transparency. With you, that's just different. Secondly, the other proposals list the procedures and activities. We did not do that in our proposal. For us, this should be at home in the committee's rules of procedure and in the protocol that should be concluded with the minister. Thirdly, the PS's proposal insinuates the title 'I am not saying that it is so', but it is insinuated that we could enter into the powers of the region where there is effective control of arms trade. In our view, this is indeed a regional competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u349	I do not agree with you at all, but I understand that you are defending the Chair of the Defence Committee body and soul. The majority text before us today is therefore, with a few exceptions, a copy-paste of ours, which we had updated through amendments for several months in order to take into account the remarks made by the services of the House and the majority, on the basis of the note of the legal services in matters of federal jurisdiction on arms. This mixture of the kinds of a committee chair with full pay, and over such a period of time, of the majority constitutes a dangerous precedent for our work. I will not hide from you that I would have preferred a consensus on this issue which we believe is important. I find this disturbing, and that is what justified my abstention on this majority text, while we support it in substance. I regret the form that has been adopted. You know I'm a handsome player. Since this file has advanced, it is already a success for us who have carried it from the beginning. The text before us today, therefore, is intended to allow for an upstream control by our assembly of the sales of former military equipment that fall 100 per cent of the federal state's jurisdiction, while many cases of replacement of major weapons systems, such as the F-16s, are on the government's agenda. Such a text is essential and fully justified in order to put an end to the current lack of clarity at the federal level. In the current context, this blur was all the more dangerous. The final destination and therefore the intermediaries of these resales of military equipment must be clearly known from end to end, taking into account, in the procedure, the opinions received from the military and/or civilian intelligence service. This better involvement of our Assembly must, however, respect strict rules of confidentiality, which is now permitted by the rules of procedure of the Special Committee on Military Purchases. I shall therefore note, with a certain irony, that our amendments were undoubtedly perfect, since the majority took them on board. However, it would have taken you a year to arrive at this text, which merely gives and moves existing powers already provided for in rule 151 of the Rules of the Chamber to the Military Procurement Committee. Now that this debate has ended on the issue of the Belgian army's weapons, this same parliamentary control will have to be carried out on the police's weapons. I ask that our text, Mr President, soon be put on the agenda of the Committee on Rules of Procedure in order to learn the same lessons from the importance of transparency in this area. Of course, my group agrees in substance with the majority text and will support it and be fully involved in its immediate implementation in the ad hoc committee. For my part, however, I will abstain from protesting against this majority holding-up, hoping, Mr President, that you will not allow the same scenario to happen again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u350	Mr. President, two words. Despite all the sympathy I have for Mr Pirlot, I find that when he says he's a good player, he betrays the truth a little bit. First of all, Mr Pirlot, in this debate or in the previous debate on NATO, you have made exaggerated or even inappropriate accusations against the chairman of the committee. We all have parliamentary experience. We know very well that a committee chairman also tends to intervene in the debates. I can remind you of what happened this morning in the Foreign Affairs Committee where Mr. Van der Maelen spoke for him for an infinite time by asking questions to Minister De Croo. It's a reality. But from there to say that there was a holding-up organised with the complicity of the chairman of the committee, who is a parliamentary colleague, etc., I think you are going a little far. On the other hand, another point is also wrong in your development. You stressed the importance of putting this procedure in place, given the current "float at the federal level". Our excellent colleague, Mr Buysrogge, recalled that for years and years – we were in governments together, so I don't throw a stone at you – this issue has not advanced! Earlier, in my quick presentation, I did not want to keep the debate going. But now I'm going into more detail. It was already in 2011 that the first inquiries were made in the Senate on this issue. Mr. De Crem, the minister, I pay tribute to him, said that he agreed to try to move forward on this issue. There is therefore a backlog of several years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u351	I didn't say otherwise.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u352	You have called into question the current blurry at the federal level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u353	It's been running for several years. It's the same thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u354	You said, "the current blur," you didn't talk about the other years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u355	But he's still here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u356	I cannot accept this kind of accusation, which suggests that at the level of resale of military equipment, there would be a current blur at the level of this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u357	That's not it at all!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u358	There's been some confusion in the procedure for years. Since the transfer of jurisdiction to the Regions, the issue of the resale of military equipment at the federal level has not been addressed. I note that this majority is doing so with a text that I hope you will support and vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u359	You've interpreted my words a little bit. That was not the point of my remark at all. The blur has existed for years. I'm just saying that in the current context, it's a good thing to put an end to it. There is no charge in relation to one majority rather than another.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u360	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u361	If I'm talking about the present situation that comes from the past that suits you? I am a good player and the proof is that I will give you the bank account number of my colleague Fernandez Fernandez so that you can pay him the copyright related to this text which you have largely inspired.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u362	The last point made by our colleague is the fatigue of the end of the evening. I'd rather stay there!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u363	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u364	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1621/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1621/1) The proposal has 2 articles. The proposal contains two articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-29-54-plenair-ip117x.u365	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. We've come to the end of our work. I wish you a short, invigorating night. Good night, everyone. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 30 June 2016 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday 30 June 2016 at 2.15 p.m.
