ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic482x.u1	Mr President, Minister, when, in January, I went to see and listen to Minister Marghem's husband directing the youth orchestra at the Brussels Conservatory, the concert was preceded by a concert of hot cannons, cannons extinguished from the beginning of the concert to allow the public to hear the orchestra. The cold subsequently took over. I am a barouder who, however, prefers classical music to military music. It would appear that this situation is due to a problem of organization between the different governments to intervene and that, as a result, the case is not progressing. I do not blame you for this, but it would seem that there is therefore a problem of organisation at the financial and legal level. Has the file progressed? Is the blockage lifted? Will the work planned for 2016 be able to begin? Indeed, these conditions are not conducive to the exercise of the art of these young people.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic482x.u2	Mr President, Mr Piedboeuf, the Steering Committee responsible for the evolution, in particular, of the draft constitution of the legal entity has recently decided on a significant part of the discussions held in recent months. A meeting of this committee was still held in my office on 17 June, at which each of the parties agreed in principle on the draft articles of association, shareholders' pact and financial plan. Before the parties presented these documents for final agreement to their respective governments, the decision was taken to forward these documents to a notary to receive a first legal opinion on their content. Upon receipt of the notary's remarks and possible adaptation of the statutes on the form, the documents may then be submitted for agreement to the respective governments of each of the parties. I assert that none of the parties is responsible for the duration of the discussions to be conducted. These, as well as the documents to be produced in order to achieve the discussions previously taken, are evolving simultaneously and in the right direction. Within the steering committee, of which the two Shareholders Communities of the project are part, future studies which will allow the renovation and restoration work to be carried out are also discussed. The Communities, French and Flemish, follow the file and my strategic unit is in regular contact with them. The documents relating to the incorporation of the company are ready and have been presented to a notary for legal review. The terms of reference for the study of the masterplan are ready and should be submitted by the cabinet of the minister in charge of Beliris to the members of the federal government as soon as possible. The work may begin when the masterplan studies are completed and a contractor is appointed through a public contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic482x.u3	Minister, I am delighted that I no longer have to attend a heat cannon concert.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic482x.u4	Mr Degroote is not here. His question No. 11138 is deleted. Mr Vermeulen is not here. His question No. 11377 is deleted. Mrs. De Wit is not here. Her question No. 11425 is deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic482x.u5	Minister, let me briefly outline the situation. In Ghent there is an office of the DIV in a bicycle street. We have a thorough mobility policy in Ghent. A car-oriented office almost in the center; in a bicycle and residential street where there is no other activity, is a bit of an anachronism. I have consulted several times on this subject the various Mobility Ministers, including the previous government. Everyone agrees it's not a good location for a DIV office. There is no parking; in the morning people are stuck in traffic to get to the DIV office; there is no possibility in the office to set up a waiting room, so customers have to wait outside in weather and wind when the weather is bad or under the sun when the weather is good. That creates nuisance and everyone agrees that a different location must be found. There are also a lot of complaints from neighborhood residents. A while ago, I asked you for a list of vacant buildings of the Government of the Buildings. There was a building, the front building and the concierge house of the Port Arthurlaan number 14, which would be ideal to house the DIV office. That is a car location and easily accessible, even for public transport if necessary, although most come by car to their license plate. I asked the Minister for Mobility, who replied that this possible location was maintained, but that, in view of the plans of the Buildings Management regarding the sale of the building, no need study was carried out and the location was no longer eligible. We're at a bit of a loss, because different locations disappear over and over again. It would be particularly unfortunate that that location, which is really suitable for the office, would also disappear. Mr. Secretary, is the building on Port Arthurlaan number 14 still on the list of vacant buildings? If so, can you ask the Government of the Buildings to carry out that need study in collaboration with the FPS Mobility, which also wants to relocation? Can the sale be reconsidered if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic482x.u6	The administrative building on Port Arthurlaan number 14 is still on the list of vacant buildings. It was placed under clearance protection in the summer of 2015 to prevent further loss pending sale. A soil contamination was detected. There is a descriptive soil study in progress. Once the VLAREM conditions for a transfer are met, the sale procedure will continue with a view to giving a sales mandate to the Federal Procurement Committee. The Government of the Buildings is aware of the housing problems of the DIV in Ghent. The Government of the Buildings will work with the DIV to find a solution. At a meeting in April 2016, the Government of the Buildings asked the DIV to identify and validate its needs by the Treasury Inspection accredited to the Mobility and Transport FPS. On the basis of that validated need programme, the Government of the Buildings will then examine whether and what possibilities there are within the federal government's heritage. It was found that the size of the needs would be about 120 m2. The site located in Ghent on the Port Arthurlaan number 14 consists of a preliminary construction with a gross floor area of 630 m2 and a rear construction of 1 236 m2. The buildings date back to 1966 and need a thorough renovation before they can get a new destination. Suspension of the sale can only be considered if the need of the DIV corresponds more or less to the total available area of the site. The preliminary figures do not actually show that. It would not be economical to make only a limited part of the construction available to the DIV and leave the rest of the site empty and then have to carry out a renovation of the building for that limited redevelopment. If it is true that the DIV only needs 120 m2 meters, then no space of 2 000 m2 will use. If there is now a project of many federal buildings in Ghent on that site the DIV is part of, that can be considered. So first we wait for the DIV's emergency program.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic482x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your answer and certainly for your willingness to look further. I really want to emphasise this, because where the office is located now, it is an unsustainable situation because visitors, among other things, have to wait in traffic and there are no parking spaces. I hope that the FPS Mobility will find a solution together with the Government of the Buildings, but I am somewhat afraid of that. We have already looked with the city at a number of possibilities and the Buildings Management is not really flexible to find a solution. Mr Minister, by the way, the location in question is not now subject to authorisation because an office building was housed. If changes are made, the current location can never be authorised, because the location in terms of mobility is simply not feasible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic482x.u8	Question No 11582 by Mr Gilkinet is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic482x.u9	Mr President, Minister, I should like once again to return to the issue of the future mega-prison in Haren, of which we have already discussed a great deal, as well as with your colleague Koen Geens. In recent months, in recent weeks and since I tabled my question, there have been further developments in this area. I would like to ask you about the change of decision of the City of Brussels on the Keelbeek Trail. The city, at the end of June, finally acceded to the request of the consortium Cafasso to move the trail. This shift would, according to several sources and according to returns of land, be linked to compensation. We are talking about compensations related to the transfer of the Petit Château which today belongs to the Régie des Bâtiments. As part of the development of this issue, I wanted to ask you the following questions. The first concerned the agreement with the City of Brussels, but since then it has been known that an agreement has been reached for the Keelbeek Trail. On the other hand, it is not known what compensation will be awarded to the City for this change. Can you also confirm the forthcoming transfer of ownership of the Petit Château de la Régie des Bâtiments to the City of Brussels? Is that still the case? Is this assignment on the table and if so, what are the conditions? I take advantage of the fact that I'm in front of you to discuss Haren's prison file. Minister Geens has announced that it will be completed in 2019. Are there more details on the dates of obtaining the permits, which will condition the start of the work, but also on the signing of the contract with the Cafasso consortium? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic482x.u10	Mr Vanden Burre, the municipal college and the communal council approved on 9 and 27 June 2016 respectively the relocation of the Keelbeek trail for the construction of the new prison in Haren. There is currently no concrete project to transfer ownership of the Petit Château to the City of Brussels. The completion date of the Haren prison, taking into account the permits still to be issued, the risks of recourse and the availability of infrastructure, is estimated to date in the course of 2020. With regard to your question about the beginning of work, I refer to the previous question. The work will take almost 32 months and will only begin when the permits are enforceable and therefore once the contract has been signed with the private consortium.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic482x.u11	Minister, in relation to the compensation to the City of Brussels, I take note of your answer. You're telling me there's no concrete project. I imagine, however, that there is something, and I will come back to it. We will follow closely the timing of the work: 32 months from the issuance of the permits - which are not yet issued. On the other hand, we can expect many remedies. The timing will probably be reviewed many times.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic482x.u12	Mr President, Minister, my question is at the end of May, it is July 19 and so various events have taken place in the meantime. I was referring to a note that you had to submit to the Council of Ministers on the urgent renovation of the buildings of the Museum of Fine Arts and those of the 50th Anniversary Park. At the time, there were reports from the press and the plan for an investment of EUR 145.1 million, which would run until the end of 2020, with an emergency phase for the repair of roofs worth more than EUR 35 million. These amounts would be borne by Beliris and the Régie des Bâtiments and would be allocated on the basis of a study of a more general masterplan for the renovation of these museums. The future masterplan will also make it possible to refine the needs and costs associated with the reform of federal scientific institutions and the creation of the European Space Agency, which your colleague, Mrs Sleurs, is trying to put in place. My questions are based on the policy of your colleague, Mrs Sleurs. Can you confirm the amounts recorded by the press? What is the distribution among museums? For what purpose will these amounts be allocated? How were priorities determined? With whom were contacts made within each of the museums? When will the future masterplan be available? What exactly should it contain? How have these investments been decided, given the reforms under way, in particular with the Minister for Science Policy, Mrs Sleurs? Is there not a risk of inconsistency between its decisions and a policy that needs to be put in place? Last year, Ms. Sleurs had already requested master plans from each of the federal scientific institutions. Have they been consulted to anticipate the investments announced and tabled in your note at the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic482x.u13	Mr de Lamotte, I confirm the total amount of 145 million euros revealed by the press. This amount will be allocated between the years 2016 and 2022 to the studies necessary for the realization of the masterplan as well as to the renovation, restoration and redevelopment work to be carried out. The distribution of this amount is as follows:- for the Royal Museums of Art and History, €92.6 million; - for the Royal Institute of Artistic Heritage, EUR 8.1 million; - for the Army Museum, EUR 15.4 million; - for Autoworld, EUR 4.1 million, - for the Royal Museum of Fine Arts, EUR 19.1 million; - for the Dynasty Building, EUR 5.8 million. The renovation of the roofs was proposed by the Régie des Bâtiments as the highest priority. Other priorities will be determined in consultation with the Secretary of State for Science Policy, museum officials and the Régie des Bâtiments. With regard to your question about future masterplans, the award of masterplans studies is scheduled for 2016 and 2017. In a first phase, the Royal Museums of Art and History, the Royal Institute of Artistic Heritage, the Army Museum and the Dynasty Building will be the subject of a master plan. The time required by the study team to complete the various phases of the masterplan study will be one of the criteria for awarding the public contract. The master plan for the Mont des Arts is expected by the end of 2017, the one for the Cinquantenaire with four different institutions will undoubtedly require a longer period of study. On investment decisions, they were decided in full collaboration with my colleague, Elke Sleurs, and take these reforms into account in preparation. The study teams will involve the scientific institutions informed in the development of master plans. Scientific institutions must make known what they want for their respective museums.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic482x.u14	Thank you for your answers, Minister. I take note of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic482x.u15	Question No 11901 by Mrs Poncelet is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic482x.u16	Mr President, Minister, I come back to you concerning the project of a neighbourhood committee accompanied by Tournaisian associations to revitalize the Luchet d'Antoing in Tournai. This is a reflection on the possible development of State-owned land. A working group was launched to rethink this space. A space which, I recall, has been unoccupied for years does not bring any added value and is also maintained by the municipal services of the City of Tournai. This project pursues a social and ecological goal by setting up a meeting area between the residents through the creation of a whole series of infrastructures creating links. In order to obtain a concession of the land, the project was sent to the Ministry of Defence, which owned the land before the Régie des Bâtiments acquired it. Now the working group is waiting. Was the file forwarded to the Régie des Bâtiments? What will be the follow-up to this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic482x.u17	Mr President, Mr Delannois, as part of a possible construction of an administrative centre in Tournai, the Régie des Bâtiments has taken its interest in the acquisition of the defence land located at the Quai du Luchet d'Antoing. This site represents a real opportunity to bring together, among other things and if necessary, the services of the Justice FPS. This acquisition could not yet be realized today because the reorganization of the judicial districts announced by the Minister of Justice at the beginning of 2015 is still in progress and somewhat delays decisions on the future of the judicial institutions, especially Tournaisiennes. This acquisition is therefore deferred in our 2017 investment program. However, the Régie des Bâtiments, as part of its potential project to centralize public services on the site, cannot envisage a concession from the Régie des Bâtiments for the creation of infrastructure in the medium or long term.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic482x.u18	So, if I understand correctly, you accept that this land can be used in the form of a concession.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic482x.u19	No. We are waiting for the reorganization of the judicial districts to concentrate services on this field. This should have already been done, but it takes a little longer. We keep our interest in this land until the Department of Justice decides whether to use it or not. In the meantime, we cannot grant concessions for construction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic482x.u20	It's not about construction. It is simply a neighbourhood committee that wants to carry out certain plantations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic482x.u21	So that could be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic482x.u22	Very honestly, I'm a little surprised by your answer. You say you're waiting for justice; but I can't believe it for half a second, since I've been waiting for Minister Geens to let us know what he's going to do on this ground. Without wanting to make a naughty pun, I fear that you and I might take root on this ground that is, for the time being, unoccupied. So if we make a small summary in time, we find that a building is available while various ministers say that a new courthouse will be built. With every question I ask the Minister of Justice, he says he doesn't know very well, according to his master plan, where the project goes! So we're buying land that we don't know exactly what we're going to do, but you're telling me that maybe the Department of Justice will be there. I only wish to believe you, but honestly, I don't believe it anymore. Paul Valéry said: "In anything useless, one must be divine or not interfere with it". I don't know if you're God, but if you are, I'm happy. But in fact, you may at some point end up with a piece of land that you'll only know about later. I hope I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic482x.u23	Mr President, Minister, I have asked your colleague Minister of Justice several times to make him aware of the deplorable state of the Mons courthouse, located on Rue de Nimy. On several occasions, I have urged him to take urgent steps to secure the building in order to avoid any risk of incidents and to have people injured. Unfortunately, my calls have not been heard enough. Thus, the Labour Inspectorate had to shut down access to the no-lost room, following the fall of caryatide pieces on a staff member, despite the installation of a safety net. If I ask you today, Minister, it is because it is high time that the Régie des Bâtiments took note of the danger and finally began the work necessary to secure, once and for all, the courthouse of Mons. It is now proven that the stability of the building is no longer ensured in certain places. Not only do caryatids collapse in the no-lost room, but there are also cracks, water infiltrations, defrayed paints, broken or completely unusable luminaires. Both staff and public toilets are virtually unusable. Therefore, Minister, is the Régie des Bâtiments aware of the danger of the Mons courthouse? What response is provided to the Labour Inspectorate to secure the building and, in particular, to allow the reopening of the Public Lobby? Beyond the deposit of a simple safety net to prevent the fall of caryatides, will large-scale renovations finally take place to secure the building? Will an additional budget be made available for this purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic482x.u24	Mr. Thiébaut, the caryatides are casts of varnish plaster dressing metal columns. It is therefore not the statues themselves that carry the structure but the cast iron columns that they dress. The Régie des Bâtiments commissioned the evaluation of the caryatides by its Stability department. The disturbances that were observed on the caryatids of the Mons courthouse during the visit on 7 June are not such as to call into question the stability of the building or its roof. These conclusions are identical to those of the previous 2006 and 2011 expert reviews. These are mainly cracks in non-carrying elements. In order to remove all doubts, it is planned to test the beams whose mouldings are the most damaged. To do this, it is necessary to prepare a market to undress the beams concerned from their mouldings. Once the beams are visible, the Stability Department of the Régie des Bâtiments will come to see the condition of the beams and decide whether to replace them or not. Undressing of the most damaged parts is planned for the second half of August 2016. Meanwhile, in order to avoid the risk of falling pieces of plaster, a safety net reinforced with wire ropes was placed on 4 July. The latter was inspected by SECO on 8 July for technical approval. Water infiltration took place at the glass roof in 2012. They've been fixed. The zinc and natural slate cover is currently in good condition and has no water infiltration. With regard to electricity, lighting and fire detection, the replacement of outdated safety lights is under way. The work is scheduled to be completed on August 18, 2016. The replacement of old luminaires in the corridors on the first floor, as well as in the courtroom on the ground floor to the left, is complete. The complete relighting of the courthouse will be studied during the renovation of the building. The replacement of the divisional electrical panels has been under way since June 20th. The compliance of fire detection at the courthouse and in the extension of the courthouse will be proposed to the commitment in July 2016. Legal control of the low-voltage facilities of the courthouse and the premises housing the exhibits is planned for August 2016. As far as the renovation is concerned, an inventory of the state of the premises of the courthouse has begun, pending the masterplan of the SPF Justice. The reorganization of the judicial districts announced by the Minister of Justice at the beginning of 2015 is still ongoing within the judicial districts. Based on the relevant decisions, a management plan will then be prepared to plan the renovation work to be undertaken in a systematic manner. It should be noted that, as the building is classified, planning and, above all, heritage approaches will require a significant amount of time in the planning of the works.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic482x.u25	Minister, I am reassured about the stability of the building. You tell me that investments will be made to secure the building but I am not reassured about the fate of the caryatids. If the beams surrounded by plastered caryatides are undressed, there are no more caryatides. I'm worried because these are the stamps of Mons' building.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic482x.u26	Mr Thiébaut, the caryatids will not be destroyed. We'll put them back.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic482x.u27	I hope so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic482x.u28	If the cathedrals can be repaired...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic482x.u29	This should be possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-commissie-ic482x.u30	As Mr Denis Ducrame was absent, his question No 13102 was deleted. Question No 13108 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu is transformed into a written question. All the questions were thus dealt with before the holidays. I thank the minister and the colleagues here.
