ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u2	The general discussion has resumed. The general discussion was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u3	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our health care is a valuable asset that must be defended at all costs. Madam Minister, that is what everyone is saying in this House. Protecting patients, supporting healthcare professionals, enabling the development of quality infrastructure and investing in innovation is crucial. It seemed to me that you shared this view last September when you said: "No, it is no longer possible to touch our health care". Yet you have come back to your words, you have folded, you have given up and you have again let your government partners unscrupulously attack our health care and our social security, the true cement of our country. By imposing more than 900 million savings in 2017 alone and four billion by 2019, you were completely suffocating our health care system. At the start of the legislature, despite the savings announced, you promised a stable multi-year trajectory, with a standard of 1.5%. It was finally less than 1% in 2016 and will rise to just 0.5% in 2017. At the beginning of the legislature, you also promised to spare the patients. Very quickly, you increased the amount of moderator tickets in some specialists. You have announced that you want to reduce maternity stays and refuse to grant the paying third party to the chronically ill. Today, you hit even harder and always on the most fragile of our society! At the beginning of the legislature, you promised a reform of hospital funding to ensure the sustainability and efficiency of the system, a reform that is supposed to be fiscally neutral. Today, you impose more than 90 million savings on them and speed up the long-awaited reform to streamline the system and create margins, while the financial situation of some hospitals is already fragile. We didn't believe your promises and we were right. In fact, when you say in your policy note that patient accessibility to quality and payable care must remain a permanent priority issue, we have no reason at this stage to believe you more. We believe in it all the less because in committee, you claimed that asking for a few extra euros for an antibiotic or a nasal spray, it was still "not much" – these are your words – because you are investing in vital needs. Let us acknowledge that progress must be welcomed in the treatment of HIV and hepatitis C. But, Madam Minister, I cannot let you say that a few more euros will not make a difference. For many of our citizens, this can close to indecency. When your government says that it is unacceptable for 15% of our population to live below the poverty line, I have the impression that you are not fully aware that behind this figure, they are women and men for whom, unquestionably, a few euros less in their portfolio actually make the difference, to the point that some of them will give up treatment or delay sometimes urgent care. Minister, don't hide your face! The cost-saving measures that you place on our health care will have an impact on patients and these consequences will be even greater for the most disadvantaged of them. Minister, don't hide your face! The savings measures decided have most, if not all, been decided hastily to fill the budget gap and not to improve the health of our citizens, as you claim. By reducing the reimbursement of antibiotics, you will not reduce their consumption, but you will only reduce your budget gap by making patients pay more for them, who – I would like to remind you – do not decide whether or not to consume antibiotics. Again, the most fragile patients will be most affected. By moving antibiotics from category B to category C, there will no longer be a differentiated refund for them. The price will more than double for ordinary beneficiaries. Worse, it will sometimes be tripled for the beneficiaries of the increased intervention, i.e. the most disadvantaged. Thus, tomorrow, amoxicillin will cost the patient 6,42 euros while today, its price is 1,93 euros for BIM and 3,21 for BO. Your arguments of public health or of evidence based obviously do not hold the road; we can see it with the retropedalings that you have carried out. You decided not to pay back the nasal corticosteroids any more. Here too, you are advancing this public health measure to reduce the risk of over-consumption of over-the-counter nasal decongestants but more harmful to health. Nasonex, for example, which can be used for background treatment in some children, will cost €9.49 while it is currently €1.05 for BIM and €1.75 for BO. A few days later, you come back a little bit on the measure. These sprays will eventually move from category B to C and will be available with or without prescription. The moderator ticket will be higher and, again, there will no longer be any preferential reimbursement for the beneficiaries of the increased intervention. What is intriguing is that you have come back to this measure on the basis, you say, of testimony. You'll excuse me, but you make evidence based your leitmotiv and it's a little weak as an argument. No, the measure was purely budgetary and you accommodated it in an attempt to face the growing outcry. Same as what is commonly called antacids. You decide not to refund highly dosed antacids to reduce their consumption and, again, in the face of reactions from patients and healthcare professionals, you come back a little bit about the measurement. Reimbursement is maintained for patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome and lower-dose antacids such as Lansoprazole will always be reimbursed, even in large packaging. It seems to me that this sacrosanct concept of evidence based is very variable in the use that you make of it or it is, like the arguments of public health, only a pretext for the savings that you decide on speed and that need to be corrected along the way. Our fears are all the greater as, according to this principle of evidence based, you will reduce the reimbursement of several medicines that are, for some, also given to children - without any accompanying measures: Myozyme, against Pompe disease; Piroxicam against osteoarthritis; methylphenidate and Rilatin; Xolair against allergic asthma; urinary antispasmodium. Minister, let us never forget - and you will certainly agree with me - that medicine is not an exact science, but an art and that, behind the indicators of quality and the principles of evidence based, patients suffer and providers work to relieve them. In fact, the central issue regarding the use of many of these drugs is not only awareness-raising among citizens, but also, and above all, the issue of prescribing behaviour. However, the patient is not a prescriber. The increase in the price of these medicines is therefore totally unfair and unjustified. The only consequence of these measures will be a higher addition to the pharmacy and thus an increase in the drug bill of about 9%. So we are no longer talking about just a few euros. In addition, in order to make the situation worse, you have raised the maximum limits to be charged. As you have stated on several occasions, the MAF has never been indexed so far to ensure that patients with huge health costs can benefit from free care beyond a certain amount of health care expenses. This measure will, of course, once again affect the chronically ill and the most fragile patients. Do I need to go back in detail on other measures to attest to the anti-social nature of your savings? You freeze the recognitions of new medical homes to, you say, conduct an audit of how they use public funding. Nearly 350,000 Belgians are now treated through this often flat-rate system. This figure continues to grow year by year. Another hastily taken step to find a few million without even thinking about its possible consequences! Indeed, there could be a more significant carry-over of costs to primary care and second-line care. Second, there are savings made on everything that goes on the backs of hospitals, while we know their fragile health: 92 million savings just in 2017. In addition to the linear savings on the budget of the financial means, you plan, among other things, to abolish funding for active dressings, to reduce funding for specific costs related to clinical education and scientific research, and to abolish maternity, emergency and intensive care services. While you want to speed up the establishment of hospital networks, you plan to reduce the recycling premiums that precisely allow hospitals to reorganize their services by preserving employment. It's for us incomprehensible. As I have already told you, if the setting up of networks is to make the system more efficient, it must be intelligently operated and accompanied by important beacons. This is the opposite of the measures envisaged today, which will inevitably have a sad impact on employment in hospitals, but also on patients. They will either see the quality of care decrease, or the rates increase through supplements, resulting in a deterioration of the accessibility of care.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u4	Mr Senesael, first of all, I am not going to intervene every time you give information; when you give one, I have another one to give. I will do what is necessary in my speech. This will be a good move, but we may be able to move faster. Then, about the future provision in the context of hospital refinancing and restructuring, how do you explain that networking, as proposed in the Minister's draft proposal, will be carried out at the expense of the patient? I don't understand that. Because in the end, the principle of networks, if I have understood it correctly, has a primary interest in facilitating patient access to care in centres considered to be centres of expertise. The Minister will certainly provide further information. From the moment we work with centres of expertise, that is, where doctors regularly intervene for, each time, the same act, we really talk about experts in this field, whether it is a delivery, cardiology, transplantation, etc. So, what I don't understand is that from the moment we concentrate the strength of a specialty, whether it's gyneco, cardio, pneumon, ENT, whatever, in a specific center, how can you say that this could go against the patient's interest?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u5	I can tell you that. Indeed, we have worked for networking, for example, in the field of cardiology, very clearly with the desire to have the most effective care and to bring them together in a forum where there are enough actions to ensure that doctors are specialized in this field and can propose the best technique. But this networking has never been designed for savings. In other words, in the various cardiology-related acts, all hospitals have been specialised, and this has been done by taking into account places, particularly at rural level, where the absence of essential intervention could create major problems. Networking in this area was therefore linked to a desire for a higher quality of service. There was no budget target. It wasn't less. It wasn't closing because we had to make x million savings. The big difficulty here is that the minister has agreed to save €90 million in hospitals. Therefore, the whole logic of networking is to make savings to save money and justify this by networking. I don't know why the minister accepted that. That is the negotiation and, if you allow me, the weakness in the negotiations. That's the difference, Mr. Thiéry!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u6	Mrs Onkelinx, I am supposed to speak to the speaker. Mr Senesael, the MAHA study, carried out by Belfius, showed how under-used, or even unused, beds in some services were, for example, in paediatrics or maternity, to name but a few. There is about 50% of non-use. A concentration of services, by definition, will make these institutions more efficient. From the moment the beds are occupied, by definition, it will generate savings. It is also interesting to note that the same MAHA study shows that the number of beds per 1,000 inhabitants was around 3.5 in Denmark. In Belgium it is 6.6. Is it not appropriate to make an analysis that would allow us to draw the conclusion that, ultimately, we can operate much better with fewer beds? If we turn this into availability for the population, our current hospital capacity - I am not critical of efficiency at the moment - would be ideal for a population of 25 million. We're 11 million. I think there is something to think about.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u7	Mr Thiéry, the continuation of my demonstration is to prove that we decide to save money to save money. But we do not say that, in certain places and at certain times, we must not rationalize and act in a positive way. But, as we can see and, in any case, we can see, with these savings to be realized, hospitals feel under pressure and are beginning to take steps, such as the abolition of certain services in Jolimont. A standstill has just been decreed for hospitals so that they do not take steps contrary to the future reform. Derogations are still possible, in particular for "some rationalization exercises". So we see where we are going and, although you said so, there is a clear lack of consultation. It is on this point that we draw attention: better communication with regard to the sector is essential in the context of this complex and far-reaching reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u8	Mr President, I shall not interrupt Mr Senesael until I give any information on his comments in my subsequent speech. You mentioned, Mr Senesael, two fundamental elements. You're saying there's no consultation. However, I believe that if there is a minister who systematically promotes consultation, it is Mrs De Block. It will be said that, in some cases, consultation has not taken place. It must be objected to that it has sometimes taken place a posteriori and that sometimes there are no interlocutors. It must be recognized that dates are not always appropriate. Then you talked about Jolimont. Unfortunately, that is a bad example. Because all the decisions made within this network were made a long time ago. These are even service arrangements put in place by the grouping itself. You can't incriminate the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u9	Mr. Thiéry, we're both in the field. When we have contacts with those responsible, particularly in Wallonia Picarde, where the whole hospital sector has been grouped together, it is clear that the concerns plus the savings measures to be carried out and, in their opinion, the lack of communication or even of consultation, undermine the planned hospital reforms. I therefore call for this communication and this effective consultation to be strengthened in order to achieve pragmatic and concrete effects. I'm not asking for anything more yet. As no one is spared by your dark cuts, there are also these impressive savings on healthcare providers' fees: more than 250 million! And that, while the professionals in the sector had agreed to participate in the effort because they had not undergone the same index jump as the other workers. But you asked them more than others and, as a result, their ras-le-bol is quite understandable. The medical-mutualist agreement has been denounced on all sides and, again, whatever you may have said, the dialogue has not been renewed since the main union - the ABSyM - has recently prompted its affiliates to deconcentrate: 441 doctors have done so, according to our figures and those of the INAMI. A deconcentration that will allow doctors to set their fees at their convenience and, most importantly, will unfortunately further increase patients' bills. The same applies to pharmacists to whom you have removed fees that are supposed to cover certain administrative burdens, while you recognize that the MyCareNet system that is supposed to support them in their task is not yet fully functional.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u10	I will quickly come back to the deconcentration of a number of doctors - you mentioned the figure of 441. As a result of the decisions made, a tsunami of deconvention of more than 4,000 doctors had been announced. I note that as of December 15th, we have 441 doctors, which is 10 per cent of what was originally envisaged. What is also interesting to note is that in the context of the doctors decontroverted at the present time - I have done the calculation because, in my opinion, the calculation published in the press is not correct - we go from 15.93 % to 16.74 %, i.e. the difference of the 441 doctors in question. But this current rate or level of deconvention, despite the decisions made, is higher than what we had in terms of deconvention doctors in 2013. In the end, if we compare the situation with the past, the situation is far from as catastrophic as you claim.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u11	Mr President, I am asking Mr Senesael. When you hear Mr. Thiéry's words, you feel like you have a policy that helps make doctors happy. That's very amazing! Indeed, if I refer to the letters I receive, to the specialized journals, that is not exactly my impression. You give the impression that pharmacists are happy that they have been deprived of a bonus that allows them, in terms of administrative simplification, to be full and complete players in the health care sector. When you hear Mr. Thiéry, you feel like you're facing people, facing patients, facing happy hospital managers. Anyway, we're wondering, Mr. Senesael, if Mr. Thiéry lives in the same world as us. I don't know why, when I go to the doctor, the pharmacist, I meet patients - I don't know if you do - I only hear complaints. Where do you live, Mr. Thiéry? Do you read the same specialized press as us? I'm amazed at what I hear. You strongly defend a health care budget below everything! We have 900 million savings in health care and a member of the Liberal Party comes to tell us that everyone is happy, that everyone agrees that we are living in a wonderful world of Bisounours! What's this business? We've never seen this before! Everybody's grudged. Mrs. De Block was attacked by everyone. And Mr. Thiéry comes to say that everything's fine, that where he goes, everyone agrees that it's great. What's that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u12	Mr. Senesael, Mrs. Onkelinx, let's stay serious. I am always surprised and astonished at the way in which words are diverted, whether here or in committee. I want us to listen to the recordings. I never said that all doctors were happy. We are all very aware, Mrs Onkelinx, of the effort that is being made at all levels, whether at the level of doctors, hospitals or patients. Where you say everyone is happy, unfortunately this is not the case and we are aware of it. On the other hand, we forget to say that in return for the decisions made here, which are the subject of our minister's policy note, there are a number of counterproposals and benefits that are left to patients. I'll come back later. Mrs. Onkelinx, you're asking me if I'm reading the same press as you. Not only do I read a certain press, French-speaking and Dutch-speaking, but, above all, I am documenting myself on the ground. The strict truth is not always in the press
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u13	Mr President, I would like to respond to the rather misplaced and overly theatrical reaction of the one who has been in charge of this area for seven years as a minister. Mrs Onkelinx, you had a very large budget when you were Minister of Justice and we know what happened. When you were Minister of Social Affairs, you also had a very large budget. For Beliris, you also had a very large budget. Despite that, the results were not corresponding. Despite that, I have inherited eight plans from you without funding from the last four months after the elections. You have never found money to repay, for example, hepatitis C medication. You have never found money to repay HIV inhibitors, Mr. Senesael's dada. You have never found money to repay innovative medications, such as immunological medicines for cancers. And so you have reduced the quality of our health care despite your large budget. Come and tell me all kinds of other things, but those are just the facts. You blow, yell, and scream here. You send emails to anyone asking me to tell them that they are not satisfied. You're blowing hot and cold. You put in your e-mails that they have to say that they think it is bad that the fees go up. Here you say that I am taking away two thirds of the fees as savings, so that they cannot rise enough. What is it now? Do you want higher fees for the liberal professions or do you want lower fees? But you can't be bothered, something the PS does every day these days.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u14	It will be fun to see the Liberal applause for the efforts being made on the backs of the doctors and I who defend the doctors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u15	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u16	Attention, the great expert of absolute everything, Mr. Miller, is getting on with it! It happens that I believe that a good health care system is also achieved through respect for the providers. I defended the patients, that's right. No savings on patients' backs. It is true that we invested in the cancer plan, tens of millions of euros for medicines, technologies that were not reimbursed. It's true we did. It's true that we've been working on chronic patients the way she can never do it. But if, the minister does it backwards, making the conditions for access to a privileged status for chronically ill people more difficult. I was the opposite. That's right, we've invested in chronic disease status. And you Liberals, when you were able to take stock of the old government, you said congratulations! What we've done in this matter, congratulations! Now, of course, we're a little embarrassed! For claimants, with their indexing mass, it is not necessarily to have an increase in fees. In particular, with me, we have negotiated so that part of the fee increase can be reinvested in projects to the benefit of the quality of the work they have done. What we did for the general practitioners, for the guards, is one of a thousand and another. Madam Minister, you said that you were going to continue and that we would not save money. Unfortunately, you are entering a Council of Ministers, you have colleagues who say: "Waouw, there is still a lot of money for health care. My dear Maggie, you said in committee that we wouldn't make any more effort. Well, you're still gonna do it!" And Maggie De Block says, "It's politics and I have to..." This is not the way to defend a health care system! It's a jewel in our country. I don't think you've got your shoulders wide enough to defend this jewel for the benefit of patients and healthcare providers!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u17	Mrs. Onkelinx, you say, "With me, we negotiated as part of indexing." That's interesting. Listen carefully to the following reasoning. In 2011, the theoretical index was 1.4%, the index granted by 0%! It is clear that when you have to negotiate with 0%, you negotiate! Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, In 2012, the theoretical index was 2.99%, with the index granted 1%. What does that mean? That means 1.99% less. So don't come to say that as far as the index is concerned, we plan everything! Instead of saying that two thirds of the index is not ceded, I would rather be tempted to say that, compared to what has been done in the past, at least one third is granted and has been discussed within the sector to know how it should be distributed! That is our strength and that is what we have done!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u18	You are familiar with the indexing system for claimants. You know that this is not the same as the one we have for employees, for example, and that, therefore, the level of indexation of claimants is a function of what happened in the years before. For me, the level of indexation has always been respected. I have never had a collective denunciation, as is currently the case. The situation pushes patients towards a fragility never known since there is a denunciation. I am not happy because it can be catastrophic for patients but I am curious to see what will happen in the coming weeks and months. It's never been easy. Have I ever said that negotiating, particularly with claimants, was easy? No. It's normal because they don't live easily. These are complex, difficult jobs. We negotiate, we reach agreements. But here, it has been completely denounced. You're saying we're having a concert. Yeah, we're having a concert, we're listening and then we're being exposed because we didn't try to find a compromise. That's what exists with Mrs. De Block, and that's normal. Ms De Block promises to providers what she promised in Parliament, that is, not to touch the means of health care, and then, in any case, she does not. That is weakness. That is what poses a real problem and will continue to be a problem. You'll see because she promised 900 million savings to her colleagues. It will never do this because its reforms are badly embarked on! Whatever. You will see, Mrs De Block, what your colleagues will say when we see the state of the budget for the time being and the state of the budget deficit. They're gonna point your finger at you. They're going to force you to do more. You'll come and tell us, "No, I've done enough." Then you'll come back a little more undressed than at the moment by saying, "It's politics, I couldn't do otherwise." That is what we must denounce and continue to denounce.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u19	After all the measures that have just been mentioned by each other, the government has an obsession – another one –: to return sick or disabled people to work. It is true that the budget for sickness and disability insurance is increasing. No wonder in terms of government policy, which attacks working conditions and increases pressure on the worker. The number of disabled employees increased by almost 8% between 2014 and 2015. I am telling you: the labour market reforms that have been announced are not going to improve things, quite the contrary! And rather than changing this policy that uses and abuses workers, the government will break the nail by attacking workers again. It's simple: for the government, if there are so many people with disabilities, it's because there are a lot of fraudsters, with doctors who are complicit. I will quote from the Minister's policy note: "It cannot be ruled out that some people are unjustly recognized as being unable to work for a long period of time." First, the government decided to exclude young workers from sickness and disability insurance. A young person who falls ill and has not been employed for at least a year, instead of six months at present, will simply not be entitled to compensation from his or her mutual fund. Secondly, the government is doing everything possible to force sick workers to return to work. And we remember very well the saga that surrounded the development of reintegration plans. There was this proposal to punish those who the government felt were not making enough effort. This was a requirement of Ms De Block, while Mr Peeters was opposed to the measure. The social partners gave a unanimous opinion where employers and workers insisted on the voluntary nature of the reintegration plan. There must be no penalty for the worker who does not feel ready to return to work. This unanimous opinion was to be followed by the government. Unfortunately, today, Mrs De Block returns to the office and has confirmed in committee a penalty of up to 25% which can be imposed on workers in case of a manifest refusal to carry out the necessary steps or to submit to a check. Some less severe sanctions may also be imposed. Again, the government denies social consultation to tackle workers by reducing their social protection. You know, minister, you're likely to think I'm an idealist, but I'm refusing a society with two-speed medicine. I refuse a society where only the most affluent have the ability to pay their medical expenses and above all I refuse a society where health care is a variable for adjusting the budget. As Minister of Health, allowing everyone to care for themselves is your responsibility. While 1% of the world's citizens share half of the wealth, while within the European Union the pharmaceutical industry is brewing around EUR 200 trillion a year, while in Belgium it is almost 10% of the citizens who claim to postpone health care for budgetary reasons, I cannot decide how you have agreed to put at risk, through your dark cuts, our system of care and hence the health of our fellow citizens, their most precious property. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u20	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, many of the issues have been discussed at considerable length in committee. That is why I am always a little surprised to see that the whole debate that has taken place in committee must be repeated systematically in plenary. It is as if the debate had not taken place and a report had not been published. That is the democratic principle; I do not object. So don't blame me if I have to repeat myself, like some, first of all, and if, on the other hand, I will not represent this evening all the arguments that I had put forward in committee. Some assessments have been made. Of course, as I often say in this rostrum, we will never agree on everything. Mr Senesael and Mrs Onkelinx argued that we felt that the sector was particularly happy and that everything was going well in the best of the worlds. I would like to remind you that that is not what has been said at all. We have, in fact, said that we are extremely aware of the effort made by the sector, of all the stakeholders involved, of course. I will start with an important point. We hear all the time about a savings of 902 million in health care. That's right. But we forget to add that an agreement has been reached with the sector, that savings have been decided up to 675 million initially and that this has not caused any concern. It is important to stress this, because what we are discussing here is of course the difference between 902 million and 675 million, i.e. an additional saving of 227 million. It is important to remind the reader of what has been said, because the effort is necessary and it remains consistent, although less important than some allegations that speak of about a billion. I would also like to recall that the health care expenditure that will be authorized in 2017 is increasing by 584 million. I think it was worth recalling. I will divide my intervention into several areas, starting with that of medicines. It is known that the pharmaceutical sector is heavily involved in the economic measures put in place. On the other hand, there is a Pharma pact for the patient, decided in consultation – I insist on the word – with the sector, and in agreement with it. Ultimately, the goal of this pact is, of course, that patients benefit from faster and better access to innovative therapies. I noted that some medicines are no longer reimbursed or less, such as antibiotics. Intranasal corticosteroids will no longer be reimbursed. It is also known that there was a reason, that a prior study justified, among other things, the over-the-counter sale of these intranasal corticosteroids. Simply, the products currently used on over-the-counter caused extremely significant mucous membrane damage because they were not used properly. They caused habituation, causing – I say to the attention of those who do not know – the need to use intranasal corticosteroids to overcome the problem caused by these medicines, namely pseudoephedrine and ephedrine, in fact, all the vasoconstrictors that are used wrongly and across the nasal level. There are therefore specific reasons why these measures have been taken. I'm going to antibiotics. I must remember that Belgium is, at European level, the fourth largest consumer of antibiotics. Of course, the process is to reduce their reimbursement. It will lead to an economy. There is also a desire to make the medical profession aware, but also to the patients who are sometimes seeking their antibiotics, and who go to their doctor to ask them - which seems surreal though it is the truth - that there is no need, in certain pathologies, to prescribe these antibiotics. On the day when we find ourselves in our country, in the equivalent of the average use of antibiotics at European level, we will probably have taken a big step. It cannot be said that the decision taken here is the only one that should be taken, but a number of information and awareness-raising campaigns will be launched in parallel, and should enable us to achieve our objective. Perhaps I would also like to point out that when measures are supposed to be taken in the interest of the patient, it is far from always the case, because in the end, it is he who will have to contribute from his pocket to all these measures of economy. There are some things I'm concerned about. For example, since I was in the field of medicines, there is a willingness, acting as such, to promote or impose prescriptions for generic medicines, or even cheap ones. There is, of course, a difference between the two. The advantage of a generic medicine is that cheaper prescriptions will allow us to achieve savings, not only for the health care budget, but also for the patient. Then we point out that we take a position, that some find strict, drastic; we think we're going to look for some money in the patient's pocket – although, as has been said, for chronic treatments, an adjustment of the measurements was made. However, we are seriously forgetting to refer to advances, for example, in the field of hepatitis. A 12-week treatment for hepatitis costs 40,000 euros. The Minister made the decision to allow access to this treatment more quickly. How many patients are we going to save in this area? And above all, in the long run, what savings are we going to achieve because these patients will no longer have to go to institutions for treatment? I am also thinking about the reimbursement of HIV inhibitors. I did not hear that in the previous speech. And an extremely important element is immunotherapy. Mrs Onkelinx, do you know what this represents?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u21	You say you make repayments. Whatever the Minister of Health, we keep working for the reimbursement of new drugs, new molecules, and that's a good thing. It's obvious. That we have done it here for certain diseases, for certain infections: I will never say it is bad, of course. Don't make me say the opposite of what I'm saying! I say that, unfortunately, at the same time, you have a policy of disbursing certain medicines. That's what's wrong!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u22	Mrs. Onkelinx, I would like to join you in a certain way. However, when promoting the repayment of innovative medications, the means of financing must be sought. So everything is in everything!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u23	You're going to pick them up in the patient purse and that's what you're being blamed for.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u24	We will not agree, but we have not taken the means to repay new therapies in the patient's portfolio. The whole sector has contributed. You must know that this also concerns the future Pharma pact. When we impose the prescription of cheap drugs or generics more heavily, we realize savings and that is also why we can finance the reimbursement of innovative therapies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u25	This is not a very new policy. Previously, we worked mainly through a cost-effective drug policy that was appropriate to the patient and was involved in the proper management of the health care budget. This policy is not new and I support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u26	A considerable effort was required from health care providers and we discussed indexing. I have already had the opportunity to give my argument and my counter-argument in relation to what has been said. On the other hand, I would like to point out that, with regard to the decisions that are taken and implemented, it is often forgotten that, even if consensus is not reached, it takes place. Some in this House who have had the opportunity to participate in very high-level consultations know very well that it is almost impossible to find the ideal consensus. Decisions must therefore be made at some point in time. Sometimes they like it, sometimes they don't. There are losers and winners. I would also like to return to the problem of pharmacists and the abolition of fees in Chapter 4. This is an important effort and the decision was taken when all the consultation had not been completed. I would like to point out, as the minister will probably confirm, that there is still consultation with the PDB or with OPHACO and that there is already a consensus for one of these two bodies. As far as the reform of hospital financing is concerned, I want to go back to the study carried out by Belfius. In the end, it shows that 15% of hospitalisations in Belgium are additional compared to other European countries. We need to pay close attention to what is happening here when comparing with other practices in Europe. Of course, northern Europe is generally the reference. But why, in Denmark, for every thousand inhabitants, is it possible to operate with 3.5 beds per hospital, whereas in Belgium it takes 6.6. Hence the importance of this reform, which is under negotiation with the sector. The latter himself said that reform was necessary. It is thanks to this consultation that we will achieve this. Of course, it will take time. Minister De Block has made this very clear. It will probably take about ten years before a comprehensive system of hospital reform can be put in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u27	Mr President, I try to hold back, but sometimes I can't. I find it interesting, Mr Thiéry, that you compare the number of beds or the number of people hospitalized in Denmark with the situation in Belgium. That's interesting! There is too much recourse to specialists, probably too much hospitalizations, but probably also because we have a first line deficit which lacks providers. Perhaps also because we have a community care organization that is not the same and that is less well developed and because we refuse to recognize the value and usefulness of certain health professionals such as osteopaths and chiropractors, recognized in this Nordic country, because they allow themselves to avoid operations and hospitalizations. Therefore, if you quote a figure to illustrate how much the reform of hospitals makes sense - I will speak about it when I intervene - you have to situate it in the whole organisation of care. Comparing data will do nothing to improve the quality of care for the Belgian population.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u28	Mrs Gerkens, I hear your comment. I have given the example of Denmark, but many others can be given. What I see is that when it comes to 6.6 beds per thousand inhabitants in Belgium compared to the world level this time, I think there are only 15 or 16 countries that have just as many. This is where I find that, even if our system is envied in comparison to other countries at the global level, there are also systems that operate in a completely efficient or even more efficient way with fewer beds. That is the only point I wanted to make, and I think that, given the support, is inescapable. With regard to the reform of hospitals, which will be carried out in consultation with the sector, the importance of the expertise must be emphasized, and I have touched on one word in my previous speech to Mr Senesael. It would also be useful to recall that this financial restructuring of hospitals will not cost the patient another franc, contrary to what had been announced. Moreover, this reform will always allow the patient who remains at the centre of the debates to have the free choice of his doctor. Ultimately, whether we want it or not, this reform is in the patient's interest. Of course, we will have to be careful. Indeed, there is a need for consultation between the federal state and the federated entities. I know that this consultation takes place regularly, which is a good thing. The whole thing is to be sure that everyone is acting in the same direction. Consultation with stakeholders is necessary on a daily basis. It's happening. Budgetary stability of hospitals and accompanying measures are also needed. I understand that studies are being carried out and projects are being developed, in agreement with the sector. As I said, timing is relatively important. Indeed, we will not have a complete reform tomorrow. The deadline for 2022-2025 has been discussed and it is likely that some changes will have to be made at that time. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the challenge of our health policy is to improve the accessibility and quality of our health care, but also to ensure the sustainability of the system, given the ageing of the population, the increase in chronic patients and the evolution of medical techniques. In any case, the government has undertaken reforms. Minister, in committee, I said that the work was titanic. But you took on the challenge. There are not just words; plans will be implemented. That is why we will support you in your approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u29	Madam Minister, I would first like to say that I am pleased that some professions can no longer be exercised outside the hospital environment, in order to prevent the emergence of private clinics offering the most lucrative activities, especially the cherry of the cake. The cherries of the cake mean in this context what pays the most for the least effort. The financial health of some general hospitals suffers from this, because these general hospitals are left with the most difficult pathologies and perhaps also with the pathologies that bear the least. My second point concerns the reform of hospitals, which has been discussed a number of times here. I certainly agree with those who stress that we have an important pearl in Belgium. If we look at the efficiency of hospitals and the relationship between the input of resources from GNP and output, then we certainly do not have to be ashamed of that. I know that there is often a comparison with the United States, where there is much more money going to hospitals, but where there are relatively fewer patients being treated. The pain of our system is that it is an open system, in which patients can choose which doctor in which hospital they consult and also how often they consult a doctor. There is absolutely a free choice. On the other hand, there is a very large offer. In the long term, especially with the upcoming technological developments, that system will be under pressure. So we need to reform hospitals, but above all we need to review hospital funding. Madam Secretary, the reform of hospitals and hospital funding was a major yard, even your largest yard for this government period. It was a unique moment, because we would now have a government that lasts for five years. Five years is the minimum to set up major processes of change. That is why the expectations are also very high. A major reform process is not easy, especially since in this case hospital funding is very complex and untransparent today. Moreover, the lack of transparency is also in favour of certain stakeholders. This is a financing which has been partially adjusted retroactively, on the basis of the turnover of the hospital concerned, sometimes years before and depending on a lot of indicators, which are not always in hand. There are many stakeholders: patients, doctors, care providers, nursing staff and a number of highly skilled primadonnas, with which it is not always so easy to negotiate. There are also a lot of financial interests. Madam Secretary, I admit that it is a very difficult process of change. I do not need to remind you of what I have said a few times in recent years, namely that the process of change is extremely urgent. It's not just difficult, it's urgent. Such a major process of change must begin with the correct analysis, especially based on the correct figures. These figures must be open and transparent for everyone. Why is that necessary? Otherwise, the finality of the process of change will not be supported. Is the finality to create health care, hospitals, of the future, focused on patients and quality? Or is the focus primarily on saving? I think you should do that exercise first. For the sake of clarity, everything can and will have to do with each other, but above all you need to focus on quality for everyone with all stakeholders in the sector. In a process of change, everyone loses something. People aren't stupid; they realize that. In a process of change, however, we must also ensure that everyone has something to gain, including individually. In the long run, if it succeeds, everyone wins. That exercise needs to be made quickly. That finality needs to be established quickly. When it comes to implementation, which has to be fixed in a trajectory, there is a lot of massage work to be done and a lot of lubricant is needed in the form of resources and time. Madam Minister, for the record, I am not saying this with malice, but you have delayed for two or three years. Now your coalition partners have taken away 90 million euros for the hospitals. Why do I care so much? I'm so sorry, because you have a lot of massage work now, but no more lubricant and no more time. You do not have enough resources to make some changes positive. There is a danger that there will be no constructive cooperation now, that the fight will be for resources and that the confidence needed between the various actors will be lost. Hospitals, in my opinion, are often organized to a medieval logic, and breaking that is really not evident. You still opt for networks. I'll say something about that later. I already hear a lot of displeasure and protest from doctors' associations, as well as from other stakeholders. What bothers me most is that eventually the patient will pay the bill. After all, if we look at the health of hospitals, it does not look good. Where are the resources often obtained? They are brought to those who can defend themselves the least, have the most need of care, stand with their backs against the wall and have no choice. I fear that the EUR 160 million ultimately saved in this sector will have to be coughed up by the patient. It may be justified for certain care, which is currently provided in hospital, to be transferred to home, rest homes or other sectors. There will have to be heavy negotiations with the Communities. I also feel that we are progressing far too slowly. You say that 4 000 beds must be removed because they are no longer justified. How will you actually ensure that 4 000 beds disappear in a just manner? After all, I can assure you that there will be a fight for those beds. That can generate so much negative energy that one eventually completely loses sight of the finality. On what basis will you close certain services or reduce honorary wages? I'll get to the networks. Feel free to forget that a network just means merging a number of hospitals. Then it will cost you not less resources but more. The intention of a network is to make choices about where we do what. All hospitals shouldn't keep doing everything. You will have to create first line hospitals, second line hospitals and third line hospitals. We have to agree on this. In hospitals, specialists with the same specialty also have to make agreements with each other. You're a doctor yourself. You know that is absolutely not easy. This will certainly require lubricant and massage work. I hope it works for you, but I'm afraid so. If it doesn't work, I'm afraid the gem of health care in our society will be ruined. Another element I would like to mention concerns social security. You have submitted a note which does not mention a number of things and on which I am very concerned. For example, there is no mention of a redrafting of the financing of social security, which places a heavy mortgage on the balance in the social security budget. At the Council of Ministers on 27 October, a draft law redrafting the financing of social security was adopted. The revision is a major risk. The question is, in particular, whether there will still be enough resources to cover normal expenditure on pensions, health care and sickness benefits. Rather, I have the impression that many additional savings are needed on top of the draconian savings of the past two years. The financing of our social security has become quite complex since the 1980s. The traditional contributions to wages remain an important source of income, but have long ceased to cover needs. This is mainly because successive governments have made a great deal of efforts to reduce labour costs. Just so we're clear, I'm not questioning that in itself. If labour costs are reduced, there will of course be less income for social security. In addition, the RSZ has received a number of additional assignments. The lower social security income was partly offset by alternative financing. There is also the permanent state grant, but it has not been adjusted since the 1990s. The needs of our social security are increasing more than the revenue from the contributions, and they will continue to do so in the future. For example, ageing has a major impact on disease spending, health care and pensions. People live much longer than they used to. Of course, we cannot increase labour contributions again. This would have a negative impact on employment. Since 2004, a balancing dose has been paid each year. Each year, what was needed to balance social security was examined. That amount was paid with the general government funds. Now, however, the government has decided that it will only pay this contribution if the social partners meet five conditions. One of these conditions can be met by the social partners, and the Group of Ten is in the process of negotiating the wage margin for the future. That is an important element. However, a number of other conditions, such as those relating to the level of activity, depend on the government's policy. If the social partners do not meet these conditions, the government will either not pay for the balance or not pay in full. This actually means that the government no longer wants to close the gaps in the social security system. These gaps have been created by less contributions to labour and by the tax shift, which it has decided on. The well was indeed created by the way the tax shift is organized. It's been mentioned a few times today. The Finance Inspectorate also says that there is a need to look more closely at this issue. As regards the welfare envelope, in its calculation, the Planning Bureau no longer took account of family allowances to establish the basis of calculation. This is no longer necessary, as the recent state reform has transferred family allowances to the Communities. That is true, but in the earlier welfare envelope, the family allowances were included in the calculation, not to pay out. So a huge sum has been thrown out. In addition, according to the Plan Bureau, over the next three years one billion will be taken out of the wealth envelope to invest in general resources. This means that the most vulnerable in our society will no longer be able to benefit from the wealth envelope. I have very precise calculations and the bottom line is that only about 68 percent of the envelope for the two years together will still be available. Furthermore, in the note you submitted, you do not mention the measure whereby the employer will have to bear part of the costs if pregnant workers have to stay at home early because of health risks. We are thinking, for example, of workers in chemical and pharmaceutical companies or laboratories, or of nursing, caring and teaching staff, including kindergarten teachers. Such costs shall be passed on to the institutions concerned, often under the responsibility of the Communities or local authorities. We remain silent about the impact on female employment in such occupations, in which there are, moreover, a huge number of women working. How are the Communities and local authorities involved in the consequences of this policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u30	Mr President, Madam Minister, I would like to begin my speech by recognizing the need for a whole series of reforms that you have announced and begun. We welcomed the reform of hospital funding with its intention, in its necessity and in some of its communicated modalities. Economies in the drug sector by encouraging the cheapest medicines, generics, encouraging innovation are also elements that we can only support in the stated objectives. Bringing hospitals to network with each other and front-line providers is also important to us, as is working on computerized patient records, with access for patients and increased patient presence in consultation and decision-making bodies. It's just weirder and more striking to realize that beyond these announced policies and your proposals, we find ourselves with health actors who don't know where we're going and Members who have difficulty identifying the public health policy project that guides and guides these measures. What is the meaning of organizing and setting up inter-hospital networks? If we do not share a common objective, if we do not think that everything we do actually makes sense, if we do not agree on the criteria that we will identify in order to be able to assess whether or not we are going in the direction of a reform, if we do not place this in a more comprehensive policy linked to the first line and the public health objectives, then we find ourselves in situations like today where the actors on the ground do not understand where we want to go, where there is no anticipation and where some hospitals, some groups of hospitals take initiatives to anticipate measures, or at least what they understand. I think this is what is happening with the centre of Jolimont, but it also happens in other hospital structures that start negotiations, groups, bed conversions, I hope, with their patients and health policies in the territory where they operate. They also do so in order to maintain the employment and funding to which they are entitled. In my opinion, what has sinned and what is still sinning is a clear understanding of the objective of the reforms. We have told you in committee; we can understand that you are setting up a moratorium and that you are saying: "I will no longer allow, for some time, conversions to be made because I am not sure that those who convert beds do so in the direction of the objective pursued by the reform." But the difficulty is that people don't know where the reform is going. They don't know what sense was given. They don't know how to think together about how best to organize a network. Minister, there is an urgent need to work with actors on the ground to agree on the evaluation criteria, on what makes sense, on what makes the backbone of your public health policy project.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u31	Mrs. Gerkens, you mentioned the Jolimont hospital. This redevelopment of services has, in fact, been under way for more than two years. It was decided before the minister had the opportunity to say that she was going to put in place a financial restructuring of hospitals. It is very difficult, in a debate like this, to compare a specific case and what the minister is trying to do. You say we have to try to work together, that some hospitals don't know exactly where we're going. The centre of Jolimont was ahead. They realized that this restructuring was absolutely necessary. Also, allow the minister time to present to the centre what she has to propose in order to reach a consensus that will, in any case, be in the direction of reorganization and re-centralization. In fact, it is quite interesting to see that a centre such as the one in Jolimont knew in advance that, no matter what, one day there would have to be a restructuring. Ultimately, what we are doing at the federal level is putting in place a structure that meets a need from the community.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u32	Mr Thiéry, at the beginning of my speech, I said that it was essential to put in place a reform of the financing and organisation of hospitals and to have them networked with each other and networked with the first line. Together with my political family, environmentalists, who strongly defend this, we are among those political actors who consider that an effective public health policy works first of all in community care and that specialist and hospital care only comes after. Earlier, you mentioned figures: 6.6 beds in Belgium and 3 in Denmark. I will quote a figure that is almost universal. Anyway, wherever we tested it, he gave the same results. It is a tool that was created in 1970 by Professor White and his famous White Square, which was confirmed by a study conducted in 2006. Its principle is that out of 1,000 people who, within a month, will be exposed to a health problem, 75% will actually develop a disease. Two hundred and fifty will go to see a doctor. Nine of them will be admitted to a hospital. One will be admitted to a university hospital. I am particularly convinced of the need to change the organization of care. When I was talking with Minister Onkelinx during the previous legislatures, I found that our care system was too hospitalo-centric in its organization. So I can join you on a bunch of dimensions. The difficulty is to know how we're going to organize. How are we going to ensure that the different health actors share the same objective and agree on what we are going to do, how we are going to do it and how we are going to assess the progress made towards the goal and the goal pursued? That's missing. Hospital restructuring has not been in progress for just two or three years. It has been said for a long time that some hospitals have doubled, that some have competed on the same territory and that there is a need to promote a geographical vision of the health and living areas to be organized, but that is not the case. I sincerely hoped that the reform announced since April 2015 would provide us with this guiding thread. But we do not have it. The current restructurings are still being organized as it is thought appropriate to do in order to fulfill missions, keep jobs and provide services. If I quoted Jolimont, it is because this subject is topical and it shows that the health actors concerned have taken initiatives to convert them. I am unable to tell you with certainty whether their choices are wise or not. This requires taking into account the population, the way in which the area is covered and the way in which needs are met. When such situations arise, I would like the minister and policy makers to talk to health actors to understand the local situation. For example, is there any particularity in a region that justifies not respecting certain standards or, at least, making them more flexible? Should mobile midwives be provided as a complement? Lots of innovative solutions would be possible if we knew what direction we were taking. I'm disturbed by another problem. These are the budgetary developments and the standard of growth of the budget for health care, as well as the way in which funding for health care and social security will be organised. However, it is surprising to achieve a growth rate of 0.5%, when economies were announced, of course, but also a growth standard of 1.5%. It is normal to suddenly achieve a growth of 0.5% by stating that all needs will be met and that the patient will never be affected. But no one can prove that he will not suffer. I hear hospital officials working well. They usually have a profit margin of more or less 1%, allowing them to develop and invest in equipment. When they tell me that their 1% margin is swallowed up by the savings and restrictions imposed on them, I wonder. In fact, a hospital that no longer knows how to invest is a hospital that no longer knows how to keep up with the changing needs of patients, or that no longer has the capacity to look after poorer patients, for whom interventions by the hospital institution may have to be taken into account. These are the elements that make me say that there is a lack of debate, including at the parliamentary level, on where we are going and on which we are based to say that a proposed direction, whether respected or not, is the right one or the wrong one. I now turn to the reforms concerning health professionals. Here too, a major project is under way. It was presented on 28 September. A call for contributions was launched, followed by a process of consultation of the various sectors. We will redefine the skills, which does what in relation to whom and with whom. But we will have no guarantee. The Communities and the Regions have not yet been involved. If you contradicted me, I would be very happy, Madam Minister. However, you expect that at some point they will be included in the device. However, I think that it is from the first minute, as soon as we define what a professional of a certain type is, the skills we expect of him and the actions he can take, that we must exchange with those who train these providers. Otherwise, there is a risk that there will again be a situation in which the elements will be detailed and defined, but will not correspond to those identified by the training sites. They will not necessarily be right against you or the other way around, but this joint work must take place from the start, so that we can move forward in a coherent and relevant way. In committee, we also had the opportunity to discuss the number of claimants in relation to the needs, as well as the possible assessment of these new doctors or doctors in place. In addition, we addressed the training of future physicians and the 2018 double cohort. Madam Minister, with regard to this issue, you have told us that discussions are under way to introduce provisions that would allow future generalists not to have to do six-month internships in hospitals, to broaden the scope of internships or internships. It is important to be able to anticipate, because everything takes time. With regard to the need for additional funding that it would be necessary to identify in order to allow general practitioners to receive trainees for three years rather than two, and to the hospital structures to organise the reception and to improve the supervision of these specialist candidates, you have not presented any more specific elements, Minister. We're in 2016, we're talking about the 2017 budget and I'm talking about the 2018 double cohort: it's precisely because we're going to have to find the most appropriate measures in a multi-annual and early way. In relation to this, I would have liked you to be able to provide me with additional information to the information you provided in committee. Madam Minister, something else disturbs me. I make the link with the future reform of the financing of social security and health care (which will arrive in Parliament at the beginning of January) and with the reorganization, which has been initiated, of the bodies for consultation, consultation, opinion and decision-making within the INAMI, the SPF Public Health and between these bodies and your representatives, therefore your cabinet. I'm worried about the new model. We will have an opportunity to discuss this in January. Indeed, according to what you announced in your policy note, the way in which the health care and social security budget will be adjusted will depend on the fulfilment of commitments that, for some, will depend on the actors concerned, and for others, on the objectives that the government has set itself in terms of revenue and expenditure that may have nothing to do with social and health policies. In addition, you have set up working groups, task forces that complement or replace the current focus groups in which the social partners involved in the financing and health actors are involved. I feel that if these two dimensions are combined, there is a risk of choices being made, analyses being made and decisions being made without sufficient consultation, even though I recognize that the current model can be modernized. I am not defending the status quo at all levels. But I believe that the groups that develop policies, discuss the destination of budgets, the objectives and how to achieve them, must be structured and transparent in terms of how they operate and their composition. I feel like we're heading in the opposite direction. I will take advantage of Minister Borsus' presence to address 'food security' concerns, and 'environment' concerns related to health in the context of the problem of antibiotics. Too many antibiotics are being used in Belgium. The risks of developing resistance and therefore not being able to fight disease are a particularly important problem to be monitored. You are taking health measures, which I dispute in the way you do it: a patient only takes antibiotics if they are prescribed and the prescription is the responsibility of the doctor. So there's no need to say, "We pay more or less." Prescribers must be properly prescribed, and it is the prescribers who must deal with it. There are also antibiotics present via consumer animals. That's Mr. Borsus's skill. Measures have also been taken to increase registration and transparency in the use of these antibiotics. There's one dimension you haven't touched, it's the preventive use of antibiotics. If you don't touch it, it's also because to ban the preventive use of antibiotics, we need to change the way we farm. You have effectively removed the critical antibiotics, but I'm talking about all the antibiotics. It is all antibiotics that are found in the food, in the garbage, in the water, etc. So antibiotics are present in large quantities in our environment. It is not only the antibiotic medication taken or overconsumed by sick patients. To reduce the use of these antibiotics, there is a need to reduce the size of farms and the concentration of animals in confined areas. The Secretary of State in charge of the North Sea is present and he also knows that if we want to embark on aquaculture, it will be important to avoid the use of antibiotics in order to avoid diseases and to avoid that fish raised in this way also participate in overconsumption and overexposure to antibiotics. I take advantage of your presence to all three to insist on the need to consider all dimensions and not just that of the sanction of the patient who would use too many antibiotics. I would also like to take this opportunity to address the issue of endocrine disruptors. On the occasion of the Saint-Nicolas, Inter-Environnement, Kind & Gezin and a third association came to say how much they appreciated the position of the Belgian ministers, in connection with the work of the Federal Parliament, regarding the criticisms Belgium has made towards the European Commission regarding the weakness and inadequacy of the criteria and measures proposed to identify endocrine disruptors, work which the European Commission has done only late and in the wrong way. Tomorrow, the European Commission will propose a new project to identify the criteria for endocrine disruptors. From what I have received as information there are again unacceptable elements, and among them, for example, the Commission proposes a derogation, i.e. allowing the use of pesticides that would affect the hormonal system of harmful plants, insects and animals, considering - I do not know on what basis - that these pesticides would not be endocrine disruptors, whereas their function will be to act on hormonal functioning. When we act on hormonal functioning, it is usually endocrine; in my view, we therefore fall into the category of endocrine disruptors. Furthermore, it would appear that the Commission's proposals also provide insufficient protection for people from endocrine disruptor-related diseases. Rather than assess and prohibit prior to placing on the market, the risk assessment would take place on a case-by-case basis after placing on the market. This is of course what large chemical and agrochemical companies have been trying to obtain for years, that is, "let us exploit and sell our products and then for use, you will see if there are any problems and if there are any, we will remove our products". In the meantime, evil is done. So I would like to know, Mrs De Block, Mr Borsus, whether you will continue, in the face of these new proposals, to say courageously to the European Commission that its work is not good, that you are waiting for another definition of the criteria, that under no circumstances can you accept disguised exemptions from pesticides which are endocrine disruptors, and that under no circumstances can you accept products which have not been assessed for risk and whose risk would be assessed only after placing on the market and use. Since we are talking about health and social policy, I will allow myself to supplement my speech with some elements for Mr Borsus. I would like to receive further information on the professional secrecy of CPAS workers in relation to terrorism, social fraud and the information they may collect. We discussed it in committee and you told us that, despite the difficulty of the file, you may wish to lift the professional secrecy and exchange data. However, you have told us that, for the time being, the only concern is the fight against terrorism. I have the impression that in the texts which have been adopted in the courts and relating to article 458 of the Criminal Code, provisions extend the possibility of lifting professional secrecy. Can you give me further information? I will ask Mrs Sleurs the same question because, as part of her policies to combat violence against women, we find the same project and the same objective of lifting professional secrecy. What is the status of the evaluation of these measures? Mrs Sleurs, in addition to this lifting of professional secrecy in the event of violence, you said in committee that the subject seemed complicated to you, that you intended to succeed but that it would not be for the moment. I have the impression that things have evolved faster through the Committee on Justice. I'd like more specific information. I want to go back to one aspect of my speech that concerns the employment of people with disabilities. I really think you have to give up this idea of taking into account the public market shares entrusted by the public services to suitable work enterprises and to count this in the public service quotas for workers with disabilities. If we want to work towards inclusion, we must encourage the presence of persons with disabilities in services. Only in this way will the objectives pursued be achieved. On the other hand, support for social causes in public procurement is important, and I agree that a condition should be laid down, but it must be in addition and not in place. If that were the case, believe my experience, there would be no more workers in the public service. Similarly, for income replacement allowances, the check was missed. In 2016, people with disabilities were forgotten in the valuation of income replacement allowances, as part of the tax shift. For 2016, there will be no regularisation of the situation. For 2017, Ms.Sleurs said she was going to convince her government colleagues. I guess none of you dared say he didn't agree. Today, the 2017 Wellness envelope will be lower. We're only going to use one part, about 70%. On the other hand, the number of beneficiaries that will need to be allocated will be higher, as the number of persons with disabilities forgotten in 2016 will have to be added. How will the government ensure that in 2017, the Well-Being envelope will include an increase in income replacement allowances for persons with disabilities? With regard to the individualization of the amount of the integration allowance for persons with disabilities, which is used to cover disability-related expenses, you told us that a study had been carried out with 200 people, that it would represent 13% of the budget and that you would not have the support of other members of the government. The price of love that we want to suppress and which all the parliamentarians here have been demanding for so many years, is again missed for 2017. There will be no abolition of this penalty for a disabled person who, because he or she lives with someone who has an income or because he or she works, is penalized in his or her integration allowance. I would then like to make the link with a reform or something that is announced by Minister Borsus. He tells us that in 2017, he will work on new forms of common life so that he can adapt the income of social integration. Minister, you are telling us that the aim is not to penalize people but to take into account the new forms of life that are developing in our society. I really hope that the goal is really to take into account people who, very intelligently, because they have low incomes, think they will share housing and its burdens. For some, it may not be the price of love, but it is the price of life in common. It is known that income replacement allowances generally depend on the income of the person or persons with whom they live. I would therefore like to know how this analysis of the new forms of common life, the work and calculations that will be carried out, will integrate the more particular situation of these disabled people who benefit from an allowance? Similarly, for all these people who benefit from income from social integration or unemployment benefits, what will be the basis for them not to be penalized at the level of their income simply because they are intelligent and try to share costs, also knowing that some people have incomes below the poverty line. Social integration income is 77.86 per cent. It would therefore be particularly dangerous and disrespectful to undermine this income and reduce it because they are intelligent in sharing costs. Here too, I would very much like you to take advantage of the opportunity and broaden the debate a little bit in relation to what we have been discussing in committee. How are you going to build a tool that will allow these different situations to be taken into account with a clear objective of improving their situation and strengthening intelligence rather than strengthening tools for control, exclusion and income reduction?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u33	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we were very pleased with the Social Affairs Minister's policy letter for 2017. I would like to come back to three elements, not because they would be world shocking, but they can make a difference to a number of vulnerable groups in society. The first element is the extra attention given to certain groups in society. This is precisely the role that social security must play: to provide protection for those who need it. For example, we have discussed in committee the fact that not all people who are entitled to certain benefits or benefits are now getting them effectively. Legislation is often complex and the path of the administrative mill is not evident to everyone. Unfortunately, it is often those who need it most who miss their rights. We want to avoid this as much as possible, and that is also your ambition, Madam Minister. It is therefore a good thing that this government starts with the Buffer database that we discussed in committee. Data already available to public authorities is thus made more accessible to the different institutions that can automatically grant rights to the people who are eligible for them. This is the way forward. I would like to encourage you to do so so so that we can apply the automatic allocation of rights as much as possible. Your colleague Borsus is sitting next to you. It would also be a good thing for the OCMWFs to go much further as soon as possible with regard to automatic allocation of rights. In this way, we can achieve a lot of things for the most vulnerable groups, which will give them what they are entitled to. That often makes the difference for those people. The second element I would like to mention, Madam Minister, is the inclusion, which you also mentioned in your policy letter. You said it's a priority for 2017. The starting point is to look at what people can do instead of what they can't. That is also the international standard these days. However, Madam Minister, we believe that the government could do much better in its role as a model, especially for the employment of people with disabilities. 3 % is the target, but the federal government generally does not reach 1.5%. On the contrary, we are even going a little backwards in recent years. My appeal, I dare you a little bit, is that every minister in his department will meet that target and that you will also face the challenge for your department to meet that target. If I see that in Germany we are able to employ 6% of people with disabilities and 4.5 % in France, but that we are not yet up to 1.5 %, action is needed. If you look at the evaluation report of the Guidance Committee for the Recruitment of Persons with a Handicap in the Federal Ambt, you will see surprising figures. The FOD WASO gets 4.26 %. The RIZIV, which falls within your jurisdiction, reaches 1.62 %. The RSVZ gets 1.3 %. FAMIFED gets 1 %. The FPS Social Affairs gets 0.78 %. Madam Secretary, I challenge you to get that 3% in your own department anyway. The FOD WASO has a perfect number with 4.26 %. I challenge you to get that figure, too. Finally, Madam Minister, I would like to return to your competence in health care. You know that public hospitals are close to my heart, especially those public hospitals that are merged with private hospitals. They continue to face a number of problems. You know that this also applies to the response contribution. You yourself gave the figures in response to certain questions. In 2015, there was a response contribution from public hospitals of €26 million, which evolves to €72 million in 2020. There is already a small amount of compensation for this, and you have provided an extra budget for this. The question is whether that compensation foreseen from the federal government will in any case evolve along with the increase in the response contribution, as it evolves to 72 million by 2020. Secondly, the cost of the long-term sick is also a disadvantage for public hospitals compared to private hospitals. Here too, you have made an additional effort in 2016. The peak of the long-term sick goes until 2022. After that, the number begins to decrease, also because there will be fewer staff who will still be made available. Will the budget also evolve for the compensation for the long-term sick, which is now foreseen for the first time in 2016? Ladies and gentlemen, these were a few reservations about the responsibility of the Minister for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u34	I don't have any more speakers on the list. So I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u35	Mr President, I will try to summarise the questions. I thank the reporter and will not repeat everything. We have had two long sessions, six and a half hours and a five-hour meeting. So it is really not advisable to spread too much out of this. I have also given a very detailed and detailed answer in committee. Firstly, I would like to point out that we are working on a number of reforms to put the budget in order, while strengthening and deepening the policy. Indeed, although within a budgetary framework, we are working with a number of savings, but in 2017 we still invest EUR 584 million extra in health care. Mr Senesael, you said, "We must inform the sector". You're the one who's busy uninforming all patients, all sectors. That's what's boring because first of all, it's not honest. There are ongoing consultations with all stakeholders. It is they themselves who say they have never been so consulted in the past, when your political party was responsible for this area. You say you're an idealist. I like idealists, but you always have to be realistic and I say you're not. I have, moreover, interrupted you to tell you how much your reasoning is quite beside the plate. With regard to hospital reform, the vision paper is widely distributed. We know that we are working towards a better quality of health care. We already have a good system, which may be said, but I must add that there is also double use and overconsumption. Cost efficiency does not mean cursing in the church, and cost efficiency is also necessary in the area of health care. That is why we have to work in the networks. The vision paper is now before us. We are going to work with local and supraregional networks, as well as with tertiary care, in particular the more sophisticated care with regard to rare interventions and treatments. For this to happen, of course, there must be governance, so that everything can be regulated legally. Moreover, we unravel the very complicated hospital funding, the BFM. There are many other issues on the agenda, such as the re-evaluation of wages. By the way, the word "recalibrate" is written with one r in this case and not with two recalibrates, as in a press release by Belga to the great joy of Marc Moens. It is a very difficult task to make hospital funding more transparent. Mrs De Coninck, you experienced that yourself in Antwerp. You also said it was a very difficult task. This task is all the more difficult in the light of the MAHA study by Belfius, which states that, due to the policies of previous years, more than one third of hospitals are now on the verge of bankruptcy. So there are major problems. For this reason, reorganisations are already taking place on the ground. This week there was the example of the Groupe Jolimont, which indeed closes two very small maternity facilities and invests in one large maternity facility. After all, a maternity facility where less than 300 childbirths take place per year, but which must be fully used, is not cost-effective. The quality of care is also falling in these cases and for the women who give birth there are perhaps many and friendly people at their disposal, but perhaps not enough people with expertise and exercise. So there's a lot of moving around on the property. We have a lot of catching up to do. This reorganisation should have occurred years ago, but we know that this could not happen because of several sacred houses here and there. So there is a great exercise going on there and that indeed creates resistance on the ground. In the long term, however, we will all be better off, both the patients and those who work there. One will only be a gynecologist and have one day on two watch duty, and this for 30 years. Or one will only be a pediatrist and have to man an entire hospital with one in three and have to be women for 30 years. I tell you, for those people there is no good combination of work and a family, if there is a family with such a life. Cost efficiency is the message for the coming years, I keep repeating it. That's more necessary than ever. We know that more than seven billion are still going to our hospitals. We also know that we have too many beds for years. Beds cost money, even empty beds. We must therefore allow these networks to be organized in a bottom-up manner and ensure that we can have full coverage in our country. Mrs. De Coninck, you said you'd need lubricant. I understand that from your background, from all those social agreements where there were always more resources. Well, the lubricant's gone. This government has no lubricant and it will have to do without lubricant. That's just a realistic reflex. The resources available will have to be handled cost-effectively, nothing but that. As far as the financing of social security is concerned, the draft will be submitted to the Chamber today or tomorrow. So it'll be scheduled after Christmas. The committee meeting is scheduled for 10 January. It is a very important design and we do not want to rush it through the Chamber before New Year. We must take the time to discuss the new financing of our social security in committee. Mrs Sleurs will respond with regard to the welfare envelope. Mrs Gerkens, you have also said that more consultation is needed with the federated entities. We approved the vision note in the Council of Ministers on Friday and it was already on the agenda of the Inter-Ministerial Conference on the following Monday. I couldn't go any faster. On Friday, the vision paper was approved by the government. I took the risk of placing them on the agenda of the Inter-Ministerial Conference. I note that Mr Gosuin did not have time to read that note during the weekend. His fellow Members, Mr Prévot and Mr Vandeurzen, have been able to read him. We will come back to it; there are still enough Inter-Ministerial Conferences to discuss it. In any case, my federal jurisdiction doesn't extend. We do the programming for the Empire. That is also in the vision paper approved by the Council of Ministers. It is up to the Regions to decide among themselves how they will distribute it, but the programming will be there. There will also be overlaps but the Regions themselves have to make that difficult exercise, within the programming. Mr Vercamer, social security is indeed a protection for vulnerable people. These are sick people, old people, disabled people, people who are disabled, people who have had an accident at work, people who have an occupational disease, people who have a living wage. The whole of our social security system is designed to accommodate vulnerable people, to provide them with a safety net. These people must be able to assert their rights as easily as possible. There must be general access so that they do not have to search for each gate themselves. That is the only-once principle for disabled people that we, together with Mrs Sleurs, are now integrating. We have also applied the only-once principle in our administration. There we have brought together the Fund for Accidents at Work and the Fund for Occupational Diseases. It is important for those people to have one administration with one contact point. With regard to the target of people with disabilities, we need to look more generally at their possibilities. The same applies to long-term sick people. It's not what they can't do, it's what they can do. We must involve these people in the workplace, subject to the necessary adjustments. I'm glad you share that view. I am also glad that we can work on this. In fact, there is a lot of movement in the workplace and within the companies. The companies have really understood that they are better able to keep their people on board, even if they have some kind of illness or an accident with consequences. People may compensate for their lack of condition with more motivation and want to work. I now come to two difficult files that I have inherited. As far as public hospitals and the burden of paying pension rights are concerned, since they are indeed taking astronomical amounts, there will of course always be discussion. It will remain a difficult point. I remember the hilarious discussions about this with one of the previous ministers of Pensions, Minister Daerden. We fought together to provide something for that. Despite the great growth, that was not possible at the time. I note that we have done so with this government now, despite the limited possibilities. We invest in that. The same applies to compensation for the long-term sick. In short, Minister, in financial terms the trees may no longer grow in the sky for this government, but we want to meet the needs in a realistic way. I had a discussion with Mrs Onkelinx about investing in innovation and making medication less expensive. For everything she used to have no money for, with her growth standards, there is now money for the patients. To the regret of those who envy it, that is the only pragmatic way to run such a department.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u36	Mr President, Mrs Gerkens, a number of specific questions have been addressed to me, in particular concerning CPAS, but also antibiotics and the position to be taken tomorrow by Belgium on endocrine disruptors. First of all, I'll start with the CPAS. As you have seen, we have already decided to implement a large number of reforms with regard to CPAS, with three pillars in the approach we are developing. The first pillar is, indeed, to gradually raise the level of integration income which does not yet reach the poverty line at European level. Whenever a fiscal space is possible, we make sure that integration revenues are increased. The second pillar is complementary support for the action of the CPAS. For 2017, more than 94 million more will be allocated to the CPAS, either as part of the ISIPs or as part of the compensation measures or as part of the specific action concerning recognised refugees in particular. The third pillar is accountability and activation. The message, the reforms, the texts adopted by the House, the decrees adopted by the government go in the same direction. It must be possible to offer a path, a path of social, socio-occupational integration and wherever possible, vocational, to persons who receive a social integration allowance. We said so. A large number of jobs have been created and are announced in our country in the coming months. My goal is for as many beneficiaries as possible to seize the opportunity. I would remind you that there are 126 000 beneficiaries of integration income in Belgium. The budget of the Department of Social Integration is now over EUR 1 billion, hence the action on the basis of the three pillars, the three priorities that I have just summarized very succinctly. In this context, indeed, even though we have already achieved most of the government agreement on this competence, I have, of course, some difficult projects, including the one on socio-occupational activation and integration. This is the first project that I will present to you in 2017, but we are also working to individualize rights or to take into account new lifestyles, not in order to penalize people but in trying to have a response adapted to the evolution of a number of changes in habits and sometimes also in the forced choices of housing and housing of the people concerned. In the meantime, we are also thinking about the automation mechanism of rights. It's another difficult case. Don't ask me, Mrs Gerkens, what will be the result of the studies that we are doing right now, since I don't know them yet. Moreover, they will have to be presented to the federations of the sector. That is why we still need the time to work. Secondly, with regard to professional secrecy, I am very clear. From the very beginning, I've had no ambiguity. I have communicated my position to the Parliament's ad hoc committee, in particular after consulting the CPAS federations, which I do not agree with in this matter, and after considering the proposal of the College of Prosecutors General. I hope that the Code of Criminal Investigation will be amended by the introduction of Article 46bis 1 to allow the King's prosecutors to request information, particularly in the case of duties carried out in the context of serious acts such as terrorist acts. Secondly, I plan to untie social workers, not only those of the CPAS, but also those affected by the Social Insurance Charter, from professional secrecy in order to enable them to communicate information to the judicial authorities. I'm attached to professional secrecy. You mentioned social fraud. I have never mentioned anything less than the serious acts of terrorism or those contained in our Penal Code. However, in this context and taking into account the priorities, I fully support the parliamentary initiatives undertaken today, in particular in the light of the opinion just given by the Council of State. My colleague Koen Geens is also available and has spoken in this regard. With regard to the question of plant and animal elements, honourable Member, in terms of antibiotics, we have responded to the photograph of the national situation. Indeed, the trend for critical antibiotics is the negative trend. We are seeing a more reassuring development with regard to conventional antibiotics and we have taken certain measures concerning them, while we have taken stronger measures for critical antibiotics with pre-prescription anamnesis obligations, registry obligations or other proposals that we have discussed with the sector. We have planned, in particular with AMCRA, to ensure the evaluation of the arrangements we have put in place with regard to the animal component. In this context, the prohibition of the preventive administration of non-critical antibiotics may lead to an increase in the prescriptions of conventional or critical antibiotics. I therefore remain nuanced with regard to the preventive ban on certain antibiotic prescriptions. The third element is extremely important, as Mrs Gerkens pointed out. This is the Belgian position at the European meeting to be held tomorrow on endocrine disruptors. In this respect, we should note that the initial European position on the criteria component of endocrine disruptor legislation, under pressure from certain countries, first of all Belgium but also under pressure from the voluntary sector, has evolved with the integration of almost all Belgian comments. On the other hand, with regard to the "derogations" aspect, we have major objections to what is proposed. In view of this, we are continuing our offensive with Mrs De Block and a number of European experts to oppose this aspect which will be submitted to us tomorrow. We still hope to change the European position on this second aspect, but at this stage this does not seem to be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u37	Mr President, I should like to ask Mr Borsus a question because we have not received a response from the Minister of Budget or the Minister of Finance regarding the budgets allocated to the Social Integration PPS. On page 95 of the Court of Auditors' report on the 2017 budget, it is stated that the additional costs associated with the adoption of the reform of the ISIP are estimated at €58.5 million in 2017. And, according to the Court of Auditors, only EUR 12.3 million of this amount has been provided for in the appropriations for the reimbursement of social integration income to CPAS. Minister, can you afford your policy? How are you going to do that? Are you going to be subject to internal shifts between the basic allowances? Or are you going to have to sacrifice certain positions? In other words, at this stage, nothing is more obscure than how you will be able to finance your reform project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u38	Mr President, Mr Borsus, I am glad to hear that Belgium has big objections and will therefore not approve – I suppose we are not in a position to approve – the derogations. Are these all derogations? I have spoken about exemptions for pesticides that would not be considered as disruptors as they attack the hormonal system of harmful plants and insects. The other type of derogation is a marketing authorisation for certain substances prior to the risk assessment they present. Normally, the assessment must be prior to authorisation, or the placing on the market is prohibited. Does Belgium have any significant objections to these two types of derogations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u39	Mr President, I would like to speak now so as not to hold the minister longer than is necessary. Minister, I do not accept that you have described my reasoning as "beside the plate". My reasoning does not suit you because I do not share your liberal vision of the future of health care, which I can conceive of. Personally, I see a real breach of trust. Indeed, the growth standard you impose on health care is simply not tenable. However, in spite of our differences of appreciation, I wish you all the best to have a wonderful holiday at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u40	Mr President, I will close the debate by speaking on endocrine disruptors, which is an important debate. I confirm to you that the text which should be presented tomorrow at European level will be split into two parts. It will include a "criteria" component and a "derogations" component. We will oppose the whole of this last part, both in terms of form – the Commission has presented the content as a delegated act – and in terms of substance – we believe that the text as currently presented is emptied of its entire substance. To be very clear, we will vote against this text as a whole. Having said that, I keep all the details of the text relating to the criteria at your disposal. But I think I can say that a work has been carried out which has made it possible to make a significant change in the text. A number of countries now support the latter, including Germany, whose vigilance and position on the precautionary principles are well known. That is the subject which has a very technical aspect, and I would be grateful if you would excuse me. Mr Laaouej, your point is quite relevant. It is noted on page 95 of the Court of Auditors' report and has been the subject of a specific debate in committee. I explained that we had based our initial estimate on a number of hyper-prudent assumptions. In two words, let me recall the operative part, despite the late hour, but this is a considerable budget. CPAS have an obligation to offer SIIPs to all new beneficiaries of integration income, since November 1, except for exceptions related to the individual's situation, to specific items. CPAS also have one year to retroactively propose the benefit of an SIIP to all beneficiaries of integration income since May 1, 2016. Finally, CPAS have the possibility to offer beneficiaries of an integration income granted before 1 May 2016, on a voluntary basis, support via an SIIP. CPAS are not required to do so. We had therefore based our estimate on a percentage of SIIPs offered to beneficiaries of integration income before May 1st, which was quite high. After a survey in the country's largest cities, which account for more than half of the beneficiaries of integration income, we realized that our estimate was really hyper-prudent. I have percentages at your disposal. We see, for the first time, a slight decrease in the number of beneficiaries of the integration income which I will call "classical". I do not count recognized refugees, whose numbers are known to be increasing, and that is quite normal. I also don't count PIIS students. This decrease, which has been confirmed for several months, does not surprise me, given the socio-economic development. It is also due to the first fruits of this work of integration, integration, activation and accountability. We've made projections of what 1,000, 2,000, 3,000 income from integration less per month. With these various elements, we are able to integrate perfectly the projection and the observation of the Court of Auditors' vigilance, which is also legitimate. In committee, I said that these were projections, that nothing was more uncertain than the future. I think, however, that the various elements of analysis that I allow myself to share with you are robust.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u41	Mrs Gerkens, thank you for your questions. The first question concerned the quota of 3 per cent of persons with disabilities. We have discussed this in committee and it is not at all to replace it. This is an additional measure to have the opportunity to increase the percentage of persons with disabilities in the public service, but it is not at all a replacement. Your second question concerned the issue of income replacement allowance. We've talked about it a lot. The ball is now in the hands of the social partners, but it is true that we will have to solve this problem in 2017. As far as the price of love is concerned, Mr. Borsus replied. We must continue to investigate how to solve this problem because I do not have an immediate solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u42	Mr. Chair, if the goal is not to replace the 3% who have no disability in the public service, then it would be necessary to formulate the policy notes and the government's objectives otherwise. If the 3% is not achieved, and we move around +/-1.32% - this is clearly expressed - since we do not achieve this and we reach a maximum of 1% of the number of jobs in the public service, we will count people with disabilities working in a suitable work enterprise (to whom the public service will award a public contract) as if they were "public service" jobs in the quotas. In this case, it is clearly a replacement! I am very afraid because this track was already taken up in the Public Service Policy Note and in Mr Vandeput's statement in 2014. This track was already mentioned and I had already intervened at that time. There was no additional effort to engage these individuals in the public service. Formulated in this way, it means replacing. Therefore, I invite you to reformulate the objectives, both you and the Minister of the Public Service, because everyone, in his or her jurisdiction, must act for the inclusion of persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u43	We can now begin the next chapter. Pensions
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u44	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when the government was set up two years ago, the sustainability of our pension system was undermined. The problem was far from new, but it was necessary to have the political courage to take the necessary steps. In June 2014, the Pension Reform Commission 2020-2040, set up by the Di Rupo government, presented a series of recommendations for structural reform of the pension system. Through Minister Bacquelaine, many of these recommendations have been implemented by this government and the results are being felt. The reforms will reduce the cost of ageing by 1.6% of GDP by 2060, while ensuring an increase in the average pension amount of up to 7.3% at the same time. This ensures the purchasing power of pensioners and reduces the risk of poverty among our seniors: from 23% in 2006 to 15% in 2015, as confirmed in the 2016 report of the Study Committee on Ageing. These results, ladies and gentlemen, encourage us to continue in this direction. One of the recommendations of the Pension Reform Commission is to strengthen the link between actual work benefits and the amount of the pension. Two additional measures were therefore decided by the Government. On the one hand, it is the abolition of the limitation to the career unit (45 years). To date, a worker who began his professional career at the age of 18 and retired at the age of 65 after continuous full-time work will have a career of 47 years. However, his pension will be calculated only over 45 years or 14,040 days. It is therefore envisaged to take account of every day beyond the limit of 10 040, allowing pension rights to be set up and taken into account in the calculation of the pension. On the other hand, it is the assimilation of the minimum right for the second period of unemployment. With this measure, the government wants to continue the logic of the reform initiated by the previous government, which has differentiated pension rights according to whether you are working or unemployed. As a reminder, the previous government decided no longer to calculate the pension rights of the unemployed in the third period of unemployment on the basis of the last wage received, but on the basis of the minimum duty. It had also reduced to a minimum the assimilation of pre-pension periods for pre-pensioners under 60 years of age. It is now planned to extend this measure for the assimilation of days of unemployment in the second period and for periods of pre-pension. Furthermore, it is important to recall that pre-pensions for business restructuring, for firms in difficulty or for heavy trades are not covered by this measure and will remain treated on the basis of the last wage. Nor will this measure alter the assimilation covering periods of sickness, disability, incapacity for work, accident at work, occupational disease and maternity leave, nor time credits, career breaks or thematic leave. We also want to establish greater equity between workers. Thus, with regard to the acquisition of the years of study in the system of wage earners, there is scope for harmonization. Today, employees can buy back their years of study over a period of ten years after their studies, while civil servants are automatically entitled to do so. The government has therefore decided to allow wage-earners who have not valued their graduation years to do so. They will have a period of ten years, with a transitional period of three years, from 1 March 2017, with the payment of a flat-rate contribution of EUR 1,500 per year of diploma, which will be tax deductible, as is already the case today. Staff members will now have to pay this amount if they wish to benefit from it, but with a period of transition in proportion to the years already provided. It is important to remember that this measure comes in a context where Belgium is one of the five countries in the world that spends the largest share of its GDP on public servants' pensions (2.6 per cent in 2013, according to the OECD). The OECD advises our country to take the necessary steps to restore a certain balance between regimes. We all know that harmonisation is never simple, but let us bear in mind that the objective is to achieve greater equity among all workers. The recognition of the tenability of certain occupations and the definition of evaluation criteria are the subject of as sensitive a dossier as necessary. I have already done so in committee, but I should like once again to welcome the methodology for which the government has opted: consultation, objectivation and budgetary limitation have been the watchwords. We do believe that this is the most appropriate method because it sets the necessary benchmarks for negotiations so as not to be lost in such an important reform. We welcome the progress made by stakeholders in the negotiations on this issue. Last September, the objective criteria for recognition were defined and last month the budgetary framework was set. It can therefore be seen, however it may be said, that the government is giving itself the time, together with the social partners, to define all the difficult jobs, both in the private and public sectors. Minister, please be aware that we are confident that we will achieve the ultimate goal: to launch the reform in question on 1 January 2019. We will be paying attention to the development of this issue, which will also make it possible to bring more fairness between the various pension schemes. At the level of pension upgrading to support the purchasing power of pensioners and reduce the risk of poverty, the debate on the allocation of the welfare envelope will soon come to the table. My group and I hope that a significant part of the 2017-2018 envelope will be devoted to the upgrading of the lowest pensions, like what was done for 2015-2016 where, in the end, almost half a billion euros was used to increase the purchasing power of seniors and women. In addition to the measures to upgrade pensions which will take place within the framework of the Well-being envelope, you have decided, Mr Minister, to phase out the solidarity contribution which is currently withheld from pensions exceeding 2,554 euros gross for an Isolated Pension and 2 919 euros for a Household Pension. You are considering a 25% reduction in the solidarity contribution from January 1, 2019. This is also a very good initiative. Supplementary pensions must enable retired workers to maintain a standard of living similar to that which was theirs when they were active. The government understood that very well. That is why it intends to generalise the second pillar, but also to increase the amounts of supplementary pensions which each one constitutes. The second pillar will be open to self-employed persons and employees, subject to self-determined personal contributions for which the tax benefits will be the same as those introduced by employers. At the same time, the Minister asked the President of the Group of Ten to put on the agenda of the negotiation of the 2017-2018 interprofessional agreement, the allocation of part of the evolution of the payroll to funding by the supplementary pension sectors, with the goal of reaching 3% of payroll. In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you will have seen, the reforms decided upon in the preparation of the 2017 budget by this government aim, on the one hand, to ensure the sustainability of our pension system, to ensure its financial sustainability and social performance for future generations, and, on the other hand, to improve further the professional career actually provided, as recommended by both the OECD and the Pension Reform Committee. Mr President, Minister, my group and I believe that this is precisely the path that the government has set itself. Of course, we will therefore support your draft budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u45	Mr President, Minister, in each of your policy papers, I hope that at last you will give me an overall plan. You know that the previous government has asked the Pension Commission to draw up a comprehensive plan for the organisation of our pensions for the future. The Pension Commission has three main principles. Firstly, an overall plan for the future must be drawn up. Secondly, this overall plan must be accepted by a broad group. So there has to be a great deal of support. Social dialogue is very important for this. We must also look at young people and ensure that young people believe in the future of pensions, in fact believe that the pension will still be there for them. Thirdly, funding must also be looked at. In future, funding will have to be based not only on labour, but also on capital. Those are the starting points, with a lot of effects. Mr Minister, in any new policy plan you draw up, I hope that these three principles will be reflected in a comprehensive plan. Unfortunately, however, I am disappointed over and over again, because there is no overall plan. What are you doing? You pick out a number of things from that pension plan here and there, actually just the negative things, and you carry them through. However, you do so without having an overall view, without assessing the value of the social dialogue and without doing anything more about that funding. A reform of pensions, Minister, is primarily also a reform of the labour market. And there too, you and your fellow Members of this House are too short. Because it is not enough, of course, to say that one will increase one's age, one must above all ensure that people can work longer. We have been waiting a while for the workable work to come soon, but we haven't actually seen any of that yet. At the time you raised the retirement age, you said together with your fellow Members: no, we are going to start working immediately. It's still not here. At the same time, you said during the discussions that you would also be working on heavy work. Here in the policy paper you make an attempt, but the overall overview remains missing. Minister, I take a number of things from your current policy paper. I do not go over everything point by point, but only those things that are important to us and are, in fact, mostly negative. Let's take another look at the heavy-duty professions. That's where the cart for the horse gets tense. What have you done, Minister? You have provided a budget and then said that you will determine what is a heavy occupation and how much you can spend on it. So there are envelopes. Of course one has to go the other way: one has to find out what a heavy occupation is and then figure out how to finance it. In the meantime, the social partners are working out everything on your request, but at the same time your colleague Minister Vandeput says that military personnel have a hard job anyway. That should not be discussed. Make no mistake, and let me not be misunderstood: I give it to the military. If everyone already decides what a heavy occupation is, this envelope will be far too small in the current state of affairs to meet the demand for funding of the heavy professions. I would also like to ask you what you actually expect from these social partners, because you lay down a framework every time, but you restrict this framework so that there is almost no point in social dialogue. A second example is the second pillar. Here too, you want to broaden, hollow out and individualise that second pillar. Let us not forget that you have already reduced the second pillar. The guaranteed rate of return is now 1.75 %. This adjustment was made at the request of the insurers who claimed that they could no longer guarantee the high returns. We had that discussion. There is a new demand from Assuralia to reduce the guaranteed return again. I asked you this week whether you were prepared to answer that question. You have said that you want to look at this and that you will mainly ask the social partners to discuss it. Minister, I would like to point out that the argument of falling interest rates no longer counts because interest rates are rising. In fact, you should have told Assuralia that there is no problem and that there should be a minimum rate of return, if not, that second pillar does not make any sense for the future either. In addition, you want to create the possibility of building a supplementary pension in the second pillar on a voluntary basis. There too, the entire Academic Council, those who produced the pension report that you sometimes follow from, said in an opinion document that this could not be done and that this would mean the death penalty of the second pillar, and in particular the second pillar of collective action. If you are going to individualise that second pillar completely and do not want to conclude it collectively, then once again those who already have a good pension or a good wage, those who are able to negotiate that second pillar with their employer, will benefit. Those who do not have these skills will have a problem with it and will not have the second pillar they deserve. Minister, when we asked questions about this, you always replied that the original second pillar of collective action will be preserved. I would like to hear again from you whether this is actually the case and whether you will place that second pillar in front of the second pillar. As far as the harmonisation of the diploma bonus for your pension calculation is concerned, here too, you must admit that this is mainly for the benefit of the highly skilled, of those who have already had a high wage during their career, of those who usually have a good pension at the end of their career and who probably have a very good second pillar and probably already have a third pillar. For them, you will set up the harmonization of diploma certificates. The low-skilled cannot benefit from this, as they usually do not have a diploma and thus cannot obtain the diploma certificate. Do we mind if the Diploma Certificate was there? Not at all, but there is a problem if you do not organize something proportionate for the lowest pensions. They cannot benefit from that measure. I would also like to hear from you how you will finance this in the future. Several reports have been published on this subject in the media. We have already had the debate on this in Parliament, but perhaps you should clarify how you will continue to finance it for future generations. Finally, we want a synchronous introduction of the mixed pension and the extension of supplementary pensions, including for contractual officials. Many questions have not been answered. You want to harmonise the various pension systems. Harmonisation of the various pension systems would, in my opinion, be a good thing, but the problem is that you always harmonise down and never go up. This also applies to the synchronous introduction of mixed pensions. Once again, that will be to the detriment of those who have the least and you will harmonise things down again. Minister, in fact all your reforms are not so much reforms as budgetary decisions to reduce the cost of pensions. However, there is still no real reform of an overall plan. What you are doing is implementing a system whereby you have to work longer for a lower pension. There's no vision, no total vision, but cherry picking. It's mostly the sour cherries you bring out. You neglect the first pillar in favour of the second pillar. You want to weaken the second pillar once again in favour of an individual second pillar. You are not making a pact with those who are young today, even less with those who are about to retire today and much less with those who are already retired today. Minister, you are totally against the Pension Plan of the Pension Commission. After all, he wanted a contract for every generation. She wanted to build in a security so that the younger generations would be sure of their pension in the future, so that the elderly would be sure of the pension they will soon receive, and so that those who are already retired would be able to keep their pension. Well, you're doing nothing but reducing that. Thank you for your attention, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u46	Mr President, Minister, we have had a rather extensive debate in committee. That is why I shall just mention two points, which I do not think have been dealt with sufficiently. A first point concerns the heavy professions and the heavy jobs. There has been some progress in this area. In fact, the government has set a budget to help people who are in a difficult position. The budget is EUR 39 million, EUR 24 million for employees and EUR 15 million for civil servants. The aim is to allow people with a heavy job to retire earlier than normal or than average or to leave with a higher pension amount. Of course, people with a heavy function will be inclined to leave sooner. For a nurse it is not easy to work until the age of 67. The same applies, for example, to people working in the construction sector. My specific question is how did you achieve the amount of EUR 39 million? How many people do you want to help with that? There are, after all, figures about the number of people with a heavy occupation or a heavy job.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u47	Mr De Vriendt, Mr Klaps wishes to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u48	Mr President, Mrs Temmerman, I listened carefully to your speech on the second pillar.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u49	Mr De Vriendt has already spoken.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u50	Yeah, but it's still about the retirement debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u51	It will, of course, be very difficult for you to respond to previous speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u52	I expected Mr De Vriendt to speak on the same subject. If Mrs Temmerman blames the Minister for lowering the guaranteed interest rate, I would like to ask her what her alternative is.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u53	I was so pleased, Mr Klaps, because I thought you wanted to make a comment on something I said, but it was the speech of the previous speaker. I thought I was saying something interesting, but no. I will continue with my speech and you can rest assured that I will be interrupted. Minister, how do you get the amount of EUR 39 million and how many people can you help with that? Indeed, there are figures on the number of workers in heavy occupations because surveys have been carried out. For example, according to the workability monitor, 7.5 per cent of employees would experience at least three or four serious bottlenecks in workable work at work, and 4.5 per cent of employees face acute problems in terms of working conditions. You understand where I'm going with this. On what basis do you set a budget? Will that budget be enough to help those who are not in workable employment and allow them to leave the labour market early? More fundamentally, we have a problem with your methodology. In fact, we do not think it is logical that a budget should be set first and that it should be considered how many people could be covered. Actually, you should be working the other way around. You should consider how many people are in precarious working conditions and, on that basis, determine the budget so that you can allow those involved to leave the labour market early. With the amount of 39 million euros, you want to cover all the heavy jobs. But think about the number of people working in the care sector, education, construction, defence, the Minister of Defence is present. It remains to be seen whether that amount will be sufficient. Everyone must make an effort to stay on for longer, we have always said so, but this must be done in a workable way. The problem is also that the first increase in the retirement age will start in 2017, while you are actually aiming for 2019 with workable work. We've been sitting there with a two-year hole anyway. That too is far from logical. A second and final question, Minister, concerns the legal guarantee of return on supplementary pensions. We've come a long way. Mrs Temmerman has just said that the statutory guarantee of return was 3.25 % for employers' contributions and 3.75 % for employees' contributions. You wanted to reduce this, and you did so together with the social partners. That was a difficult discussion, but in your policy paper I find this somewhat frightening that you are considering or looking at further adjustments. What's the bottom course for you? Do you still think it is necessary to maintain a legal guarantee of return or do you want to release it completely? That is important, because workers who are tempted to build a supplementary pension must also know that they are getting something in return. They need to know that they get a certain guaranteed return, otherwise the supplementary pension will no longer be attractive. Thus, it is not possible to reduce or make more difficult the statutory pension for a number of groups, including less treated periods, while at the same time making the guarantee of return for the supplementary pension less attractive. That's a street without an end. We believe that this is not the way to work seriously on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u54	Mr President, thank you and the various speakers for their questions. The gravity of the work is a very important issue, but I would remind you that, in accordance with the government agreement, I have invited the National Pension Committee to develop objective criteria that allow the definition of the heavy functions, both in the private sector and in the public sector. The recognition of the gravity of the work will allow workers to benefit from more favourable arrangements for taking early retirement or receiving a higher pension. The objective of this ambitious reform is to take into account, for the purposes of determining pension rights, the reality of certain professional activities and the gravity of the work involved. In the public sector, taking into account the gravity of the work will allow a review of the current system of tantiemes, in order to move from an archaic system, currently reserved for certain professions, to a more modern system, aimed at the objective heaviness of some functions. Now that the budget envelopes have been set by the government, the National Pension Committee will soon be invited to continue its work. It will be a question of defining the precise, objective, recorded and measurable criteria which will allow the identification of the functions that will benefit from more favourable arrangements in the area of pensions. As far as budget estimates are concerned, I would add that the system of tantèmes has been analysed. We saw what it cost. It was on the basis of the evaluation of the cost of the tantèmes and the preferential schemes that maximum envelopes were estimated. I repeat that they are at most, on the basis of a deliberation by the National Pension Committee, which accepted in its previous report that the government should set maximum envelopes. Otherwise, we would have gone into an endless discussion, without taking into account a certain budgetary reality. So maximum envelopes are required. For the public sector, therefore, we have relied mainly on the tantèmes and preferential schemes. For the private sector, we have based ourselves, as you say, on the registration, particularly in certain collective agreements, of heavy trades. It was therefore the administration of the Federal Pension Service that assessed an envelope on the basis of an extrapolation based on what it already knew about heavy trades. Of course, things won't be fully transferable. The National Pension Committee will rework on fixed, reproducible and objective criteria, which mainly relate to functions rather than to trades. I think the discussion will have to take place. Social consultation is important in this regard, I believe. Now I come to the guarantee of return. The October 2015 Group of Ten agreement, which revised the legal guarantee of return, was an important step to reassure all actors, employers, employees, sectors and pension institutions, in the area of supplementary pensions. However, our attention should not be distracted from this problem. For example, I am in favour of any measure allowing the long-term management of their assets by pension institutions, insurers and pension funds. This long-term asset management allows pension institutions to invest in infrastructure projects such as schools, roads and hospitals. Such investments should allow similar or even better returns than the yields of government bonds, which currently include the main investments of insurers, and generate returns in the longer term, allowing pension institutions to better cover the statutory guarantee of return borne by employers and sectors. These investments also allow to support and even develop the economy. It is not at all a question of discussing rates today. This is not the priority debate, it seems to me, unless you judge otherwise. What interests me much more is to move towards accompanying supplementary pension measures, which allow investment to be reoriented in part and diversified, while making it safer. On the other hand, we must always aim for the long term. As regards so-called dormants, those who change businesses, I believe that we need to review the regulation of dormants. At present, it does not allow for long-term work. However, the secret of a supplementary pension is precisely the long term. I think it's important to look at things that way. This brings me to the free supplementary pensions for workers, Mrs Temmerman. This right of the employee to build up a free supplementary pension is not intended to replace the second pension pillar on a collective basis. However, it is intended to provide an additional means of allowing many workers for whom the employers or the sector do not provide a supplementary pension, which is about 30% to 35%, to build up a supplementary pension. On the contrary, it is my intention to support the development and deepening of collective pension plans. As Mrs Thoron rightly pointed out, it is indeed a matter of strengthening the system of the second pillar in all its aspects. We cannot afford the luxury of leaving people on the roadside who will never be entitled to supplementary pensions because their business, for example, does not offer them, especially small businesses. Complementary pension specialists even tell me that when it is easier for workers to set up a supplementary pension freely in a company where there is no supplementary pension, gradually this will determine the employers to create a collective pension system. Why? Because if there are a large number of workers in a company and everyone individually asked the employer to organize payroll deductions, at some point in the administration, it would be better to move on to a collective system. It is therefore not at all contradictory. I do not understand the opposition between the two systems. Currently, the 2003 law already allows workers who leave a company to go to a company where this does not exist, to do so. This was expressly foreseen in 2003 already. I don't see why we're going back to that. It doesn't make sense. I intend to support above all the system of the second collective pillar, of course, but I think that there may be a supplement, at some point, to a supplementary free pension for employees, which covers all workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u55	Minister, I have a small supplementary question. It is not clear to me how you are going to encourage an entrepreneur to conclude a collective pension plan if he can do so individually. With a collective pension plan, he will of course remain responsible for that guaranteed interest. With an individual pension plan it is the individual. The responsibility is being shunned. You say that you continue to think that the second pillar is the most important one, but you do not encourage it, quite the contrary. In fact, it is easier for the employer to negotiate individually than collectively, especially because responsibility is shifted to the individual rather than to the collective. That's what we think is the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u56	Minister, I have two points of reply. I don't really get it. You have committed EUR 39 million for the people in the heavy professions. You say that the social partners have accepted the principle of establishing a fixed envelope. I am not in favour of that, but that is a compromise. That is the result of negotiations. You ask how many people we want to help with that. You are talking about abolishing preferential tantième, but that brings in money. It's designed to make people work longer. You say: no, for a number of professions we are going to grant preferential tantiemes so that people can stop working earlier; that is an interesting slope, but I would like to know the details. How many people would you like to help with that amount? I have just referred to the figures of the workability monitor. You say, yes, we're going to extrapolate that. So your answer is that you have based yourself on the percentages of people who say they are in a heavy occupation, percentages from the workability monitor, to record that envelope of EUR 39 million. Is the answer yes or no? A second point is the legal guarantee of return. My question is very simple: do you adhere to the principle of a legal guarantee of return? Yes or no? We can discuss the percentage, whether it is going to fall or not, but can you confirm today that you will retain the principle of a legal guarantee of return for supplementary pensions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u57	I would remind you that all the members of the National Pension Committee have agreed that I quote: 'The work of the National Pension Committee on the definition and use of the criteria will continue within the framework of the budgetary margins laid down by the Government'. There is therefore an agreement that work will continue under a closed budget envelope. After that, as I always say, I let the social partners work. I'm not going to precede them. I realized very well that each time in committee, you are trying to get me to tell you, in advance, what the difficult jobs will be and what the non-tough jobs will be. I'll never tell you. I won't tell you. There's no point in asking me the question. Once and for all!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u58	Mr Minister, can you just answer the question clearly? How did you get that amount of EUR 39 million committed by the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u59	On the one hand, the assumption of the tantèmes and the preferential schemes for the public sector on the one hand, and the extrapolations of the administration of the Federal Pensions Service on the other hand, was used. They're just evaluations. The definition of objective and measurable criteria will determine the use of these envelopes. I say it in advance: not everyone does a heavy job! I know that, in your opinion, everyone has a heavy job, everyone should benefit from the criterion of penitibility. I do not find this necessary. You hate work; it's your doctrine. Everyone has their own conception.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u60	Actually, that's not what this is about. I am interested in what you call extrapolations and in the assumptions underlying the amount of EUR 39 million. I want to know these extrapolations and these hypotheses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u61	Mr De Vriendt, I suggest that you speak to the administration about how they do the calculation. They will answer you in a very precise way. I believe that we need to discuss all the details of this supplementary free pension for employed persons. Indeed, in this matter we are nowhere. A principle has been defined. The question now is how we're going to be safe. What will be the link between the second collective pillar and the second free pillar? These questions remain open and the social partners will have to discuss them. The same applies to the guarantee of performance. Mr De Vriendt, I would like to point out that the 1.75% guarantee has been set in negotiations between the social partners. It didn't happen by chance. This is the result of a discussion between the social partners. One day, they may feel that additional pension conditions need to be changed. You have to see what's acceptable or not. I cannot prejudge the rates that will apply in 20 years' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u62	How are you going to stimulate the second collective pillar...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u63	We just stimulated him a lot.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u64	... having regard to the individual pillar? Indeed, responsibility changes. How will you stimulate the second collective pillar?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u65	The first stimulus measure of the second collective pillar was the revision of the performance guarantee. I would point out to you that before that, there was no longer a second collective pillar. No one wanted it anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u66	(...) more responsible for performance. It is still easier to design a second individual pillar. We must therefore stimulate the other. How are you going to do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u67	Care must be taken to ensure that this is attractive to both the worker and the employer. When can this become attractive? When conditions for significant yields are met. And today, the structure of investments – as I told the insurers – in the second pillar is not sufficiently diversified and does not take into account new economic developments. I therefore believe that investment policy needs to be reviewed. As I have said on several occasions to various professional organisations, we cannot satisfy ourselves today with the obligations of the State. Of course, there is a need to maintain guarantees, but I do not think that we are doing a good service in the long term by focusing solely on State obligations. We need to move towards infrastructure and much safer returns. This is also part of an overall infrastructure development plan that is important for supporting the economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u68	Minister, I understand that hypotheses and extrapolations are the basis of EUR 39 million. I will, of course, ask them in writing. After all, I'm very interested in knowing them. In addition, I note that you cannot tell the Chamber today that you want to maintain the principle of a legal guarantee of return. Do you want to maintain that principle of the legal guarantee of return?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u69	I said earlier that, in my view, it is essential to maintain a guarantee of performance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u70	This will enable the Pension Chapter to be closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u71	Interior – Security – Police
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u72	Minister, your policy paper can be welcomed. In this context, we would like to highlight a few points. A number of phenomena have had a huge impact on government policy on police and security. We are thinking of the greatest post-war refugee flow and terrorist fundamentalism. As a result, certain priorities had to be reviewed. In these times, we cannot stress enough the importance of the National Security Council, the intelligence services, the OCAD, the integrated police and all actors in the security chain. In order to anticipate, the collection and sharing of information are of great importance. The attacks have also led to an increased deployment of our intelligence services, security services, police and army. In addition, the government has invested in a concrete approach. We are thinking, among other things, of the Channel Plan and the various measures against terrorism. We welcome the fact that, despite the costs involved, we are working and investing permanently for the safety of our citizens and our institutions. At the same time, we would like to underline that the continuing threat is very burdensome and hypothesized for our people, our military and our police. It is therefore crucial to work proactively and ensure a smooth and smooth cooperation between all actors at federal and local level. In 2017, the first recruits will leave the training banks and can be effectively deployed. This is already a positive result of the measure to increase the recruitment of police officers by 1 299 staff. The optimisation of federal police will be achieved in 2017 and we should be able to review the results by mid-2018. There is no doubt that optimisation will lead to better use and greater efficiency of the people and resources on the ground. At least that's the point. The key tasks debate will ensure rationalisation and optimisation of the tasks defined in 20 yards. This should provide space and additional capacity to strengthen the availability and rapid assistance to the population. Another measure you have introduced is the creation of the new Security and Surveillance Directorate. In this context, it was ensured that police officers could henceforth be armed, which was also a very important point for the MR. This management can relieve inspectors of a number of tasks, such as static surveillance and prisoner transport. The lines for all the legislative changes and statutes are ready on the negotiating table. We hope that this can be achieved in 2017. It is also positive that there is at last a framework note on Internal Security. After 10 years, a document was prepared by Justice and Home Affairs setting out the objectives of the integrated security policy. The objective of optimisation and the key tasks debate is to increase the capacity available. In a rapidly evolving society, some measures are insufficient to achieve all standards. Together with you, we have found that there are still certain shortcomings, but a pilot project on recruitment such as in the police area of Antwerp provides some relief and perspective. We are therefore pleased that you are open to a tailor-made recruitment and selection system, provided that the necessary quality standards are respected. We are also pleased that you are paying attention to the local level. We welcome the strengthening of the Council of Mayors, the extension of the Permanent Commission for Local Police and the granting of an allowance of EUR 500 000 for that standing committee. Proximity is the main pillar in society. It is very important to be close to the citizen and to know what the citizen is like and how he feels. The framework note and the national security plan focus on this proximity. There is also continued investment in road safety. This will improve local operation in order to implement priority road safety tasks. We are particularly pleased that appropriations are now included in the general expenditure budget, so that the police zones will be able to obtain their resources more quickly. There is also an increase of EUR 3 million for the integrated police joint projects. This brings the total to EUR 13 million. We can certainly appreciate that, too. We also note that the policy plans pay attention to the operation and organisation of the local police services. Changes in merger and recasting are encouraged and facilitated. A challenge for the police is also the follow-up of new technologies. The technology is moving faster and faster. The police must be able to follow in order to deal with organised crime. In this context, we are pleased to hear that the iPolice concept aims to improve and modernise the functioning and information management of the integrated police. The policy plan also sets out a number of staff objectives. Our police are being endorsed by terrorist groups. Violence against police officers has also increased. Here too, measures are being developed in cooperation with the Justice Department, both preventive and reactive. Implementation is accompanied by the necessary communication and training. Think about the violence management course. This brings me seamlessly to police supervision and control. Better coordination between the P Committee and the AIG is certainly important. The functioning of the privacy committee and of the special supervisory body on the police information is also monitored. We also pay particular attention to internal procedures for risk management, complaints and the like. In this context, the whistleblower's statute draws my particular attention. As far as private security is concerned, in addition to the debate on the core tasks of the police, we have also been working on the approximation of the law on private security. In the safety chain, one complements the other. The nuclear cabinet has decided on the grey areas and they have been eliminated in the legislation. A final feud from the police is now finally possible. In this context, I am pleased that the freezing period has been updated, which in fact only exists within the framework of the special rangers. However, I believe I have heard that your services are also working towards the adaptation of a royal decree. Civilian security needs emergency and intervention plans with the same structure. In the event of an emergency, current and correct information must be available immediately and without delay. A smooth exchange of information is therefore crucial. Adaptation, modernisation of communication and alerting tools are on the agenda. The public must be able to be informed quickly and to be sensitised quickly. That is why we look forward to the deployment of BE-Alert, the introduction of one unique emergency number 112 and the adaptation of the means of communication for the police and security services, such as ASTRID. It is extremely important that a system can be used reliably and continuously. To this end, there is certainly a need for improvements in coverage and capacity. The communication between emergency services during emergency interventions must not fail at all. With regard to civil protection, we also note that you are working on the recommendations of the Paulus Committee. There will be rationalisation and optimisation. That was included in the coalition agreement. We see that you are working on that, too. Civil protection is also to be followed, and therefore can be complementary to the areas of assistance. We are pleased that efforts are being continued to this end. A major reform, moreover, always raises a number of practical problems. In this respect, there may still be a need for a better framework in certain areas. Although a high level of autonomy lies at the zonal level, federal rules need to be drawn up in order to guarantee an equivalent service to all citizens. Solutions must also be provided for the profession of firefighter. We are thinking of possibilities for the combination of volunteer and professional firefighter and recruitment and staff regulations. Finally, I have a word about the Terro hatch. We have come a long way in this area. Our legislation and our field of work were not prepared for such acts of terror. The original policy was based on the idea of terrorism as a far-off bed show. Unfortunately, the opposite has been demonstrated on a regular basis. Mr. Secretary, you're doing everything you can to reverse the course of the ship. You will continue to work to improve the situation quickly and qualitatively. It's a giant catch-up move. We know it's not in one two three, but there's a lot of work going on. In the fight against terror, this government has already taken many measures. The temporary committee dealing with the fight against terrorism, led by Mr Metsu, has also made quite a few corrections. Many measures have already been implemented under the leadership of this committee. I am thinking, for example, of the fact that the police have been able to carry out searches at night for a year. Before that, you weren't allowed to do that between 21:00 and 6:00. There was also an extension of the phone tap, and foreign terrorist fighters are now being better followed. It doesn't stop there. Identity cards can now be withdrawn temporarily, there is an improved exchange of information between administrative and judicial services, intelligence services and security services are optimised, and hate preachers are increasingly excluded. There is also work on patrolling the Internet. I think it is very important that this should be more possible. We look forward to the PNR regime. If all goes well, the PNR regime, a necessary tool to identify risk profiles and identify new terrorist trends, will be adopted here on Thursday. In the light of the new year, I also have a wish. For 2017 we hope to roll out a large network of ANPR camera dynamometers, which can recognize number plates, on our motorways. Whether or not an authorisation is required will be resolved. Such cameras can be useful in many domains and have already proved their worth. There is a lot of work going on, and that will have to be maintained. Both prevention and the fight against radicalisation and terrorism remain an absolute top priority. We cannot stand still, but we must continue to work together to protect everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u73	Mr Minister, allow me to take a critical look at the policy paper not with pink glasses. I have some reservations about certain points in the policy paper. I'll start with civil protection. It has already been mentioned by the previous speaker, you have proposed rationalisation and specialisation in the reform of civil protection. We know your ambitions, namely the preservation of two locations linked to the choice of a location in the Flemish triangle Antwerpen-Gent-Brussels on the Flemish side and close to the Walloon major cities on the Walloon side. In this context, I would like to mention the specialization of civil protection, and I take the example from my own province, West Flanders, where civil protection specialises in coastal rescue. If civil protection in West Flanders is lost, it would be a shortage of coastal rescue. It has not only to do with the abolition of barracks, it also has to do with the loss of knowledge about the country. Perhaps an even more important and much more acute problem is the lack of clarity for the staff. There is a great deal of concern and no official social dialogue has been held so far. I insist on a solution. A second point concerns the key task debate, another important issue of the policy paper. Very recently there was a lot to do about the privatisation of some police tasks. It turned out, for example, that private surveillance agents are now officially allowed to check and search superficially. The idea itself is acceptable, but one should beware of a situation in which major event organisers can afford to hire such organisations, while smaller organisations cannot, with the result that small events can no longer take place in the long term because of no longer financially feasible. In this respect, too, the Minister must make a decision. If I have heard the previous speaker, I doubt whether any buttons will be cut soon. He mentioned that the chalk lines are now on the negotiating table. If one talks about chalk lines, then things will take a while. A third point of interest is the recruitment of staff in the police zones. The recruitment project from the Antwerp police zone will be rolled out to the rest of the country. Under no circumstances should that decision be a hidden attempt to merge smaller zones. The latter have little or less resources to recruit themselves and such projects can benefit large areas, but a lot less evident for the smaller ones. I hope that the Minister will pay sufficient attention to this and provide sufficient support for all police areas, unless the Minister also wants mergers effectively. Then clarify that and move on to a proposal on the matter. Finally, 2016 was a very moving year for the police zones. A lot was expected of them and asked them, any support to the recruitment possibilities would be a nice return service. Fourthly, I come back to the fight against illicit drug trafficking. I quote that again because I have not been given an adequate answer to my questions in committee. I find it regrettable that the fight against illicit drug trafficking has not been mentioned in the policy paper. However, recent FPS Finance statistics show that the average seizure rate in the port of Antwerp today is more than eight times higher than in 2011. Belgium is therefore increasingly known as the turntable for the traffic of illegal drugs. The theme remains topical. Yesterday I read in the media that crime related to the Antwerp drug trade is escalating. I hope that the issue will be properly followed up, although it is not mentioned in the policy paper. I refer to the National Security Plan, where it is a priority in third place. I also read in the same plan that it must be a do-it-yourself plan. I hope it will be implemented in 2017. I come to my final point, which was also mentioned by the previous speaker, namely the amendment of the law on the drafting and financing of road safety action plans, which is included in the programme law. The previous speaker praised this, and I have less praise for it. The government wants to quote from the government statement "the reduction of the number of road victims by half by 2020, to 420 p.m. Today it is clear that this objective is still far from being achieved. Last year, depending on the type of statistics, there were about 730 victims. If one decides to save in the road safety sector or no longer invest, then that target becomes completely unrealistic. We can and must be more ambitious. A few weeks ago, this government unpacked with a good news show: the number of road victims has fallen. That is true, but it is not enough. Let us not forget that Belgium is still the worst pupil of the class in Western Europe. According to the Programme Act, if revenue from criminal penalties and payment orders on road traffic increases, the government may decide not to distribute that additional income among local and federal police areas and the Road Safety Fund. The additional revenue will be transferred directly to the general budget of the Funds. In itself, I have no problem with the increase in fines, and I have no problem even with the use of part of that increase in order to stiffen the budget or put it in order. However, I find it worrying that part of this increase does not contribute to a proportionate improvement in road safety. Let me give you an example. One euro will be transferred to road safety policy per penalty of 10 euros. In fact, that is not much to focus on road safety. At a fine of 50 euros, 5 euros will be transferred to road safety. Soon we will have EUR 100 fines, but of this fine, only EUR 5 will go to road safety. Road safety will not improve in that case. I would like to make another comment. It is claimed that the police zones will get their pennies faster. Well, I would just like to say that the police zones are still waiting for overdue budgets from 2012 to 2015. The Minister has already indicated that he is working on a faster payout. I hope that will be the case effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u74	Mr President, Mr Minister, our excellent colleague, Mr Degroote, has expressed all the reasons why we can welcome the decisions taken in this budget and this policy note. I would like to stress the significant increase in appropriations for the fight against terrorism. This is particularly the case for the General Intelligence and Security Service (SGRS) which receives a significant drawing right. The same applies, as Mr Degroote pointed out, to the iPolice, which receives a very important credit for the modernization of the data banks of the General National Bank (BNG). Another committee, Ms Kitir and I are members, did not fail to stress the importance of investing in this tool. I could also talk to you about the Canal Plan. I have a specific question for the minister. If he cannot answer it now, I would, however, like to have an answer by Thursday. It concerns the financing of the Financial Information Processing Unit (ICTIF). Looking at the budget tables, we can observe the significant increase in a drawing right of more than 15 million, of which 11 million are recurrent. Ms. Kitir is aware of this as she attended the public hearing of the Chair of the CTIF. The latter referred to another method of financing by stating that the TIFC was financed through an agreement with the banks, from which it received the financial resources. I confess that I did not understand this answer, which points to the lack of resources on the part of the federal government when the figures appear or, then, it would appear that there is another means of funding. I don't understand!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u75	Thank you, Mr Degroote, for listing the yards we are working on and the support we are receiving. Mr Top, I would like to take a brief look at the points you have raised, although we have already had an extensive exchange of views in committee on a number of issues. The civil protection reform we are now planning must be seen in the light of the fire reform launched by the previous government, of which your party was a member. At that time, it was decided to create larger wholes, to ensure that the whole safety chain could be realised by the new larger safety zones, i.e. from prevention on repression to aftercare. What the previous government failed to do is to provide a place for two elements that are close to it. On the one hand, the urgent medical aid that Mrs De Block is dealing with, on the other hand, civil protection, which actually belongs in that chain. We have now provided a place for civil protection. The whole decision-making process within the government is not quite over, but hopefully it will soon be. We have therefore set out a clear place for civil protection in that security trap. What will be the mission of future civil protection? Not what many feared after the fire brigade reform, namely that civil protection would bleed to death or be abolished. No, civil protection is given a clear place with three assignments. First of all, she gets specialized assignments. By this we mean tasks for which specialised equipment is needed, which cannot be directly assumed that fire zones can afford to do so. Specialised assignments may also include specialised competences of the agents. A second task of civil protection will consist of long-term tasks. Some disasters or phenomena are under control for a few hours, but others, such as floods or the disaster in Gellingen, may require long-term interventions. It is therefore the second task of civil protection to support fire-fighting areas in this area. The third task of civil protection in the future is CBRN: chemical, biological, radioactive and nuclear tasks. You were right to talk about West Flanders, but I can also talk about other regions. There are a number of civil protection tasks today that do not meet those three definitions. In the context of civil protection reform, the aim is to transfer these tasks to local areas, by means of personnel and resources. By means I mean the hardware, the cars, the pumps and so on, but also the financial resources, so that the zones do not suffer. This will give civil protection a clear mandate for the future. The concern, you rightly referred to, which has been prevailing in civil protection for many years, has thus been resolved. This reform will also bring the status of civil protection agents to the level of fire brigades. They're a lot underneath that. That will be brought to the fire department level. The government sees benefits in this respect for the sake of an easy exchange between fire zones and civil protection in the context of moving to specialist tasks or switching to fire zones, for example closer to home. That's the image of civil protection. We have often met the trade unions in this case. I dare say that we have the support of the trade unions in this reform. They want to go in that alley. You are right, however, that in the formal social dialogue we still have to conclude the final element of the matter, in particular which barracks we keep in this picture and which we do not. That last stage has yet to be decided by the government. Secondly, private surveillance in the context of the key tasks debate. We can talk about this for a long time now. My draft law on private surveillance was approved by the government at first reading. This is now before the Council of State for advice. We will then submit that law to Parliament. You've already heard the lines of action. We shall have a wide-ranging exchange of views and debate on this matter. That's gonna come. Prepare yourself. I strongly believe that we will be able to do this in the first quarter of 2017. Then about the new approach to recruitment. You know the objectives of the pilot project in Antwerp: to recruit diversity, closer to the communities. This is not going to replace the federal recruitment. When zones do not want to participate in this scheme, they can still rely on the old federal way of recruiting. This isn't a hidden attempt to merge either, I'll come right back to fusion. What we propose as a possibility is that a number of areas, specifically in the field of recruitment, say that they are working together and want the model to be worked out, but that they cannot do it alone and will therefore join that model with a number of zones. The condition is not that these zones then have to merge. They will find a comparison between them. However, I believe that we should move towards fewer police areas. The government's agreement states that we do not want to impose this merger operation, but do want to encourage it. Some seven zones have been merged, and in Central Limburg there is another merger with a fairly large zone, Mrs Kitir, and that is an evolution that I welcome. What are we going to do in this area during this legislature? We will provide the zones with a means of thinking, starting from their situation, about what would be the ideal waist of their zone. I don't believe in passe-partout solutions. After all, there are so many parameters, such as urban or rural areas, that no general algorithm can be applied to them. We must look at this together with the people at local level. This instrument will be provided in the coming weeks. I am not concealing the fact that the intention of this could be to give the zones based on that instrument incentives to merge in the next form of government, whoever does so. I am convinced that we should go to smaller but larger local areas. I fear that today we are putting too much capacity into the management of the smaller zones. That's my personal opinion. I repeat that this government's programme is to encourage mergers, not impose them. As far as illegal drug trafficking is concerned, you say that we did not discuss this in the policy paper. I remember explaining the policy paper and having had questions about it for about four hours, I gave five hours of answers. It is true, Mr Top, that we have not yet dealt with everything. As far as drug trafficking is concerned, I refer to the Integrated Security Framework Paper and the National Security Plan. That is one of the priorities. It will be the task of the federal police to develop not only terrorism programmes but also the nine other priority areas. Developing programmes, i.e. allocating actions, resources and staff. This will also be the case for drug trafficking. As far as the Road Safety Action Plan is concerned, you are right. I said that in committee too. The increase in fines is a budgetary measure. This measure will generate the same funds for the Road Safety Fund but will not provide additional resources for it. It is a budgetary measure. It doesn't make any sense, I'd rather be straight about that. Finally, Mr. Miller, I am sorry, but for the moment I cannot answer your specific question. As you have asked, I will provide you with the answer as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u76	Minister, earlier, we had a debate with the Prime Minister about the future of OECDFO. For the moment, you seem to be following the proposals made by the police hierarchy, in particular Mrs De Bolle and her entourage, aimed at a decentralization of the OECDFO, which would even be emptied of its substance. Since the beginning of the legislature, this body has been gradually dispossessed of a number of its areas of activity. In recent years, however, this integrated police service in charge of combating financial crime has proved its worth, in particular in the fight against major tax fraud, the fight against financial and economic crime and the fight against money laundering, with the possibility of being a support, especially for a wide range of judges in charge of particularly complicated investigations, with national competence. Obviously, until now, you have followed the thesis proposed to you by the police hierarchy. Are you going to continue in this direction or are you going to listen to those who tell you that this service has all its raison d'être and that it is necessary, in a country like ours, connected to the international, small by its territory but of central importance within the European Union, to keep an integrated service and not decentralised? I'd like to know your intentions on this. I would like to draw your attention to one thing: OECDFO has proved its worth not only in the fight against VAT carousels, but also in the field of major cases of transnational tax fraud. This means that if you dismantle this service, you are taking the risk of achieving huge budgetary costs for the federal government. I'd like to know your intentions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u77	Mr Laaouej, the force of change is being implemented in many areas but perhaps not in the optimisation plan that was decided by the previous government. I made the decision to fully implement the Di Rupo government's optimisation plan, as planned. The last step is 2017. Then, after the implementation of this plan, an evaluation will be made at all levels, including an evaluation of the decisions taken by the previous government. I will therefore continue this optimisation exercise again in 2017, but I am prepared to make an evaluation in different areas to determine whether this was the right decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u78	Minister, this is a general answer that I understand, because it is one of many issues and you have a lot to deal with. I simply draw your attention to the fact that beyond the top of the police that submits plans to you, you have people who know the job behind it. I am thinking in particular of the staff of OECDFO and the investigating magistrates in charge of the fight against financial crime who could perhaps communicate to you their testimonies, their experience, saying why they need this kind of service where you have a quite exceptional meeting: financial expertise, banking expertise, police expertise, tax expertise, all in the same place. This means the possibility of mobilizing operational capabilities on issues that have very complex aspects with a united and coherent team and, therefore, with a strike force, not to mention that, in current areas, including the financing of terrorism, it is also a service that can be of great use. Mr Minister, I ask you to free yourself from your remarks of optimising, implementing, etc., in short all the quasi-democratic procedures that you may feel accountable for, to look at efficiency. As I told the Prime Minister, if mistakes are made and bad choices made, the bill will be in billions of euros. I invite you, therefore, to take the necessary step backwards, not necessarily to listen to what the police hierarchy submits to you and perhaps to form your own opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u79	Mr President, I would like to return to two points. Firstly, you have underlined the need for civil protection reform. But you must also agree with me when I say that a clear decision is also necessary. I'll tell you why. You have just said what the tasks of civil protection will be: specialisation, long-term assignments and CBRN incidents. Let me give you an example of how it doesn't work now. For example in Jabbeke, Liedekerke and Brasschaat they do not work one day at five for certain tasks. It may not be any of the tasks that you have listed and which need to be transferred to the local areas, in any case they are urgent tasks. It cannot be that one day in five is not being worked and then there should be no flooding or disaster, because civil protection is not available. In order to get rid of this, rapid reform is necessary. Secondly, it is regrettable that the Road Safety Fund is not getting a share of the additional revenue from the increased fines to achieve your target by 2020, which is less than 440 road victims per year. Whether it should be possible to achieve this objective suddenly by 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u80	Minister, after verification, I confirm that there has been no agreement under the previous government on the OECDFO.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u81	This concludes the chapter on Home Affairs. Asian in Migratia
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u82	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, first the good news, I will not say anything about Antwerp. Are you satisfied now? Moreover, I shall be very brief. Firstly, Mr Secretary of State, you have presented a policy paper, which I think is very one-sided, as you know. Rather, I think it is a policy paper with corresponding means of deportation. Secondly, I believe that you and the government show far too little leadership in integrating the 45 000 people who are admitted to our country every year to stay there. If you do not commit to this at the federal level, in consultation with the Regions and the Communities, we will pay a high price in the long term. Mr Jambon, that also applies to safety. It would be a good thing that we at least know who's where. Thirdly, I believe that there is also little leadership at the European level. A European asylum and migration policy should be developed in a voluntaristic way, together with the fellow Members of the European Parliament. Everyone is now going for their own national interests in the short term, and we will all lose in the long term if we do not cooperate in this area. Efforts are being made to create European borders, but far too little effort is being made to re-location and resettlement of recognised refugees within Europe and at borders.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u83	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to raise three points, which I do not think have been sufficiently addressed in committee. Firstly, I would like to talk about the detention of children pending their expulsion. The issue is quite topical, as you have received a letter from the Council of Europe's Commissioner for Human Rights. In that letter, the Human Rights Commissioner complains that detention of children cannot be done, tout court, because it causes too much damage to children, both emotionally and psychologically. By the way, many studies have been carried out on this subject. I'd like a response from you to this. You have sent an answer, but you are not really concerned about the fact that a child, purely for the sake of the child, should not be locked up in any circumstances. You're just saying that you'll only apply detention in the last instance. On the other hand, I think it should be the premise of the expulsion policy that we do not cross that red border. Secondly, in the discussion on the policy paper, the functioning of the DVZ has already been mentioned. I think we need to think very carefully about this. The DVZ has been in the news in a rather negative way lately. There was the issue of the humanitarian visa for the Aleppo family. It appears that the DVZ has three insufficient reasons why the humanitarian visa was refused. In the meantime, you also admitted that motivation did not happen properly. In addition, there are testimonies from doctors that DVZ acts far too harshly in the context of medical regularisation under Article 9b and sends people back to the country of origin who are indeed life-threateningly ill, without being able to count on proper treatment in the country of origin. In addition, a year ago, on 1 October 2015, doctors grouped and filed a complaint against the policy. That's the second time in a year. I think we should take a look at that. Are you prepared to examine the DVZ critically in that respect? Finally, Mr Secretary of State, your policy paper boasts that the fee for applications for residence was increased from EUR 215 to EUR 350. I asked you in committee to simply give us a statement on the basis of which the fee was increased. You could answer that it is a cost, which means that your administration will have more costs to deal with the residence application. The price rises from 215 to 350 euros. On the basis of which objective elements you can justify this, unless, of course, it is no more than a deterrent, but it is also necessary to make that quite clear as such.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as Mrs De Coninck's comments are concerned, she considers my policy paper to be one-sided. I fundamentally disagree with that and have explained it in committee. You're talking about a policy paper on deportation. I think that's a very heavy word, but well, that's on you. Deportation reminds me of other times. I hope you do not want to refer to those times, because that would be very difficult. Anyway, you do and you say what you want. The federal level must be the primary factor in integration. I'm glad it wasn't about the Antwerp City Council. The federal level is not competent for integration. I can only observe that at a particularly high influx of asylum seekers there is no waiting list NT2 in Flanders, that there is no waiting list integration. That has been different in the past. Again, there are no waiting lists NT2 or integration courses in Flanders, while applications have risen particularly sharply over the past 12 months and this due to the influx. I think the Flemish government, to say the least, is doing its best. We will not talk about the Walloon and Brussels Governments. I gave my opinion on this very clearly last time. I won't repeat it. Besides, Mrs. Onkelinx isn't here, so I'm not enjoying it. You also say that there must be more leadership on the European story. On the one hand, I can follow part of that. On the other hand, this morning I had a very interesting double interview with your group leader, Mrs Kitir. It was about the asylum crisis. When it comes to whether the European Union has shown a lack of leadership in dealing with the asylum crisis, I am partly in agreement. After all, it took us a very long time to get started in Europe. I say "we" and not "I" only "we." Now, however, we are farther than ever before, because a huge progress has been made. Who would have thought, for example, in the field of hotspots, that we would get them operational in Greece, a country with a particularly difficult economic situation? I'm pretty close to Yannis Mouzalas of Syria, which you would never expect. Well, what Greece has done with the hotspots in Lesbos and Chios makes big eyes. We took our employees away for security reasons. My idea is to send them back there as soon as possible. A security mission, together with a number of other European countries, will be sent within a few weeks to check whether the situation there has really improved. So let us send our staff back there as soon as possible because they really need them on the ground. Many asylum seekers have been detained for a very long time, creating a great deal of tension and problematic situations. That's a downward spiral. We're pulling our people away because it's unsafe and safety is everything. Because there are fewer and fewer international staff, the situation is becoming even more unsafe because asylum seekers have to wait longer. So that's very bad. I therefore perfectly understand Mr Mouzalas, who is asking for them to be sent back. It's not an office job in Brussels, and it never will be. It's a somewhat adventurous job. However, we also have a lot of adventurous staff in our services, who are keen to work in Greece for three months. That's gonna be okay. We will make sure that this issue is dealt with again in early spring 2017. In connection with the relocation, we have set ambitious targets for 2017. Mr De Vriendt, you will certainly be interested in this. The relocation has been completely revisited. It is no longer about 160 000 people, but actually about much less, because there have never been 160 000 people. Moreover, only people with a degree of recognition higher than 85% are eligible, which means that it is not about Iraqis, but only about Syrians and Eritreans at the moment. The numbers currently vary between 20 000 and 30 000 people. Quite specifically, if all the European countries together devolve 2 000 people a month from Greece and Italy until the end of September, then we have made it. Our relocation quota was 4 400 people and now stands at 1 000. As far as resolution is concerned, we are on course; our number was 1 100 and I think we are now at about 550, about half. We've got another year, so we'll be fine. Combined with resolution, therefore, we will normally achieve our goal. We have put the objectives back on track today. In other words, we bring 2 000 to 2 500 people to Belgium each month via resettlement or relocation. That is an ambitious objective, it is more than we have ever done. We have quotas per month. We are meeting with the services to see if this is operationally feasible. For example, we must provide shelter in the Fedasil centres. Normally, it's gonna work. I strongly believe that we have a renewed ambition for a start in the field of relocation and resettlement, based on the idea that we are now actually taking a step forward. So you see, I'm not always deaf to your remarks. I have heard such comments for about six months now, but that repetition for six months does not mean that I have never listened to them. By the way, what Minister De Croo explained last Friday in De Aangeling also went that way. I'm definitely listening to that, too. So we are certainly going to try to push up the effort next year. I will also introduce the new ambition to the government at the beginning of January. Of course, it must also be organizational. As you know, I have repeatedly argued that there were organisational difficulties in delivering visas, including from the Turkish authorities, to bring the Syrians here. That wasn't a myth, it was effective. However, it is also true that a number of other European countries can make this all easier. They have raised those ambitions. I believe, however, that we must get there under the new framework. Let us hope so, at least. Mr De Vriendt, you mentioned the detention of children. The Council of Europe or the Commissioner has indeed sent a letter. I got that letter Wednesday or Thursday, and I sent it back on Sunday night. So we didn't wait to answer. In my view, we have very good arguments. If you say that in my answer I did not go into the essence that children can never or never be locked up, that is your position. I have every respect for that. That has always been the position of your party. However, that is not my position. My position is that this is necessary in a certain setting if one also wants to have a stick behind the door in order to ensure in the final phase that removal of a family is possible, when all other phases are exhausted. We do not agree on this because you say that we cannot do it even then. I tell you that we have tried it for so many years, up to Mrs Turtelboom's Turtelhouses, and that its effectiveness is simply not good. Period. If you say so, I disagree with you. Once again, Mr Wathelet approved the dossier and the award was made by Mr Di Rupo or by Mr Verherstraeten for the Di Rupo Government. So there is actually only one political formation in this hemisphere, apart from the Flemish Interest, but those members are not present and I assume that they have no problems with it, which has never given them their blessing. And the PVDA, but those members are not present either. I understand that you will continue to do so, and it may be a pleasure for you to knock on that nail all the time. After all, you are pleased to be able to say to my fellow Members that you are just a judge. I can only say that if we look at things carefully, I am sure that the colleagues from the PS and the sp.a have done the same. There are still arguments to move towards this in a certain setting, an ultimate phase, as it started in the Netherlands two years ago among the Social Democrats. I think this should be possible anyway. If you say that it should not be a half-day or even a half-hour in principle, then we simply disagree fundamentally and then there is no point in discussing it further. You'll just say something different than me. Mr De Vriendt, you asked questions about the operation of the Foreign Office. You mentioned the reasons. I have also admitted this in part, but you should also look at the substance of the matter. In the visa file, the judge has always used a fundamentally different interpretation and, apart from our reasoning, has ruled that Article 3 applies in our Beirut embassy. That is precisely what we are fighting about: the interpretation and scope of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Extraterritoriality. However, you received a very good lesson from Professor of Human Rights Vuye a few weeks ago. This is now before the European Court of Justice and a cassation appeal has been brought before the Council of State. So let us wait and see how this continues. You're referring to medical regularization, and you're talking about different doctors. I don't know if there are several doctors, because as far as I know, only one doctor has played whistleblower. You may have more information than I do. A report has been prepared by the Federal Ombudsman on medical regularisation. That report was filed in the Chamber. I also understand that there is a written question from Mrs De Coninck to the chairman of the Committee on the Interior to organise a hearing on this matter. I don't know if you signed this, but this hearing will take place. I am sure that both the Director-General, Mr Roosemont, and I will come and explain myself on request. We have been able to give a very large reply of ten pages on all points. I absolutely do not agree with the claim that the operation of DVZ is totally flawed. It is true that the government agreement states that there will be an audit of the DVZ. That audit will be launched by the Federal Audit Service in the next few weeks. This is not because I would distrust the Foreign Office, but because I am convinced that an audit can be positive and can contribute to a better functioning of the administration. As mayor, I also had an audit of the services in my municipality. There was a lot of positive results at the time, although there was initially mistrust among the staff. Mr De Vriendt, I would like to say a few words about the applications for residence. Not everyone has to pay 350 euros. There is a group that will now have to pay 210 or 215 euros instead of 160 euros, such as the students and the family lords. Those who will have to pay EUR 350 are the group covered by 9a, humanitarian regularisation. This amount is based on a study by the Administrative Simplification Service. The DAV has a number of permanent contracts with a number of audit firms, which calculate the effective administrative costs. I think I've already provided you with that report. Otherwise, I can still have it delivered.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u85	Thank you for your answer, Mr Secretary of State. For us, the red line that should not be crossed is the locking up of children. You always say that you are only going to do so in the last instance and that you want to exhaust the other possibilities first. The big problem, however, is that you never exhaust those other possibilities. Voluntary return is not developed at all in your policy and in your vision. To better frame a voluntary return, giving those people more perspective, could lead to more families with children taking the step towards voluntary return. After all, life in illegality is not attractive to families with children in our country. It is not that this is the hammock or a particularly attractive life for a family with children to go into illegality for years. I am convinced that, if the voluntary return is better framed, it will work more with the embassies and consulates in the country of origin, if one also tries to give an economic perspective and also gives a clear message to those people that they cannot stay, that they will have to go back, that they will be able to increase the percentages and the results. A small indication, the voluntary return takes just over one page of the 37 pages in your policy paper. I think that's a little more than anecdotal. I think this means something. When it comes to incarceration, there's still a lot of work on the shelf for you. I had just forgotten an example of the incorrect policy choices made by the DVD. I am referring in particular to pre-registration. It is still the case that asylum seekers arriving in our country have to pre-register first and then wait a few days before they can actually register as asylum seekers. That's completely ripped off the pot given the lowered inflow. There's margin. There are places in our country. That's no more than an additional deterrent threshold, deployed by the DVZ. Insufficient motivation of refusal of humanitarian visa, pre-registration and, as a third element, the far too strict procedures at the 9th, medical regularization. For your information, the final testimony came from a doctor who, by name and name, clearly said in the press that the DVZ imposes far too strict rules and that he can no longer do his job as a doctor in honour and conscience. He must advise that people can be returned, although they are life-threateningly ill and cannot count on adequate treatment in the country of origin. That doctor was forced by the DVZ, that's how he felt, to send back people who should actually stay in our country. That wasn't the first time. A press article in De Standaard dated 1 October 2015 contained the same message, not given by the same doctor, but by a group of doctors, lawyers, lawyers and field workers, who then released a White Paper proposed by Doctors of the World. Yeah, it's about more than that one doctor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u86	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, with regard to waiting lists, that may well be with regard to language courses and integration, but for the record, the waiting lists on accommodation are extremely long. You're a pedagogue, so I suspect you know Mazlow's need pyramid. A roof over the head and safety are important before a number of things can be started.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u87	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u88	I mean recognized refugees. They must integrate, sign a newcomer's declaration, learn the language, be polite, respect our values. Mr Secretary of State, we must also respect a number of things. Secondly, our number on relocation and resettlement is 500 but our ambition was 1 000. So we're about a year behind. I'm glad you're sending people back from the administration to Greece. We must also negotiate with Turkey, because one of the major problems is that Turkey has withdrawn all its officials from the Greek islands, so that the Greeks have no partner against whom they can say that they should take some back either because they cannot be recognised or because they are unjustly present. Apparently, that's one of the big problems. For the record, I heard that at an international meeting of someone working in the administration on the Greek islands. The Greeks stand there with their backs against the wall, they cannot work on the deal with Turkey as Turkey does not honour its commitments. I am pleased that the European Member States want to commit themselves and do their part. I know, for example, that Sweden has made very hard efforts to live up to its commitments. So it must be feasible. You are talking about 2 000 to 2 500 people per month across all the Member States, if I understand correctly. With your capacity and your voluntarism, which you have shown in the reception of asylum seekers, we certainly need to be able to organise this in our country, in order to fulfil our commitments. I'm really looking forward to this commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u89	I assume that we can conclude the chapter on Asylum and Migration in order to move on to the last chapter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u90	I have a few speakers on the list, first of all Mrs Grovonius.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u91	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to return to the plenary on a subject which, as you know, is of great interest to me: the Belgian Food Safety Fund, which we will unfortunately have to endorse as part of the programme law before us. It is all the more regrettable that this was done without real consultation and that parliamentarians were finally only able to take note of this decision, when this fund was created by the House, by parliamentarians. Between 1983 and 2008, it financed around 150 programmes for more than 500 million euros. Thanks to this fund, the concept of emergency aid was clearly removed and structural investment was available in the fight against hunger, in this food security, drawing on the expertise of many Belgian and multilateral actors in a fully integrated way of work. There is a great risk of losing this expertise and the place of consultation that existed between the various actors. Many people acknowledged that the working method applied within the Belgian Food Security Fund was unique and brought real added value to the sector. This is all the more surprising because it was not provided for in the government agreement on the one hand and because it occurred when there was not necessarily a prior assessment. It therefore appears that this removal is premature and largely unjustified or difficult to justify, since no concrete evaluation criteria support this decision. You will reply, as you have done on several occasions, that the reason for this is that the OECD has called for greater policy integration. The OECD has never mentioned the Belgian Food Security Fund. All right! It seems that this is above all a political decision on your part. You wanted to ensure that this tool remained within the scope of a parliamentary initiative and where, perhaps, you did not have full control and for which perhaps you wanted to take full control. I regret that my colleagues on the CD&V, who had also pointed out this decision as damaging and who had initially been supportive of this issue, have, in a second step, turned their attention to it. However, I note two positive points at this stage. The first is that the programmes that are under way will be able to be finalised, and the second is that the budgets from the Lottery will be immunised and retained at the level of development cooperation, in any case if you confirm it to us. I also note the value of having a specific basic food security allocation. Nevertheless, I would like to draw attention to the fact that having a basic allocation or a percentage of the development cooperation budget devoted to food security does not protect us from possible wanderings, which could include considering that the allocations or, in any case, the amounts that we grant to the World Bank, for example, are recorded as amounts that promote food security. Indeed, we know that many of the projects that are being developed within this framework, unfortunately, are now being questioned and questioned because they finance, in particular, agrobusiness projects that clearly oppose the development of a food security policy that is based more on local and family agriculture. These are considered, in any case, by the actors who were active in this Belgian Food Security Fund and also by my group, to be guarantees of human development and of the development of food security in the long term and of development cooperation that is profitable in the long term. I will not be longer and thank you in advance for the elements of the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u92	Mr President, Ministers, Mr Secretary of State, this budgetary debate, including at this time, coupled with the analysis of our general policy, is an opportunity to place particular emphasis on specific issues. I do not want to take anything away, Mr Laaouej, from the interest of all the budgetary, economic, political and social debates we have discussed with our colleagues on this day, but it must be noted that, in the field of foreign policy, Mr Van der Maelen, the current situation is multiplying the issues of tension and the challenges facing our democracies. In fact, contrary to what an author who had had some media success had claimed at the end of the 20th century, we do not live at all, as you know, the end of history. On the contrary, it has resumed its work after the fall of communism, to the point that today's world history is moving the borders, the populations, the identities and the states themselves. Although it is not possible, in the context of an intervention this evening, to mention all these places and subjects of tension, I would nevertheless like to make this general reflection, to say how essential the responsibility of the government, and in particular that of the ministers who, like you, have a mission in foreign policy, defence and external relations in the broad sense, is. I will not take up all the points and confine myself to a few focus points, since many of the topics have already been the subject of many recent debates, such as the situation in Aleppo, European issues, the need for European defence, the fight against terrorism, etc. I will take four points, two of which will be country-specific and two on general themes. First, the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. In our view, President Kabila's two constitutional mandates have been completed. He should have, knowing the expiry of his second and last presidential term, prepared the elections. This was part of his mandate and he would have grown up by putting this final touch on his dual mandate. The smooth running of the elections in 2016 would have been part of President Kabila's political record. Unfortunately, he did not act in that way, alongside successes he had achieved during his tenure. President Kabila had all the assets in his hands two years ago, but he did not use them, showing an immense passivity that will allow him and his entourage to cling to power for another year, if not more. A passivity that now leads to violence between protestors and law enforcement officials. This situation, which could become insurrectional, does not, we know, advance the Democratic Republic of the Congo politically or socio-economically. This is what the Congolese population is asking for in the first place. We, Minister, are deeply concerned about this political climate. We call on all parties to reject violence and to seek a peaceful and inclusive solution. We believe that individual responsibility for the perpetrators of crimes and other human rights violations is engaged. We therefore call on the government to take all relevant measures to ensure the safety of our citizens on the spot. Secondly, I will address the Middle East peace process. You know the interest that we have in this region, which is often echoed in our streets: anti-Semitic acts, tensions between communities, etc. We hope that Palestinians and Israelis will be able to live side by side, in peace, in security, by establishing positive contacts between the two societies. Next year, the Balfour Declaration will be 100 years old. The Jewish people must be able to have a state in which any Jew who desires to live in dignity and security can live. This right was recognized in 1948. But it cannot be practiced at the expense of the Palestinian people, who also lived on the same land in 1948. We believe that Jerusalem must maintain its multi-religious status and allow the three monotheisms to live together. We regret the unilateral acts imposed on the ground. We condemn violence against all. We call, as France has proposed, for an international conference to be held that would allow both parties to resume dialogue and then negotiations. We regret the position of the current Israeli government not to participate in this conference. Our country is a friend of the two peoples, Israeli and Palestinian. And beyond governments and political majorities, we want these two peoples to coexist peacefully within two states. We expect the Belgian Government to do its utmost to work together towards this goal. I come to two points which do not concern countries but general themes. First, the situation of journalists in the world. Minister, Reporters Without Borders has just published its annual report on the deaths of journalists in the world. In 2016, 74 journalists, whether professional or not, were killed in the performance of their duties, knowing that many had no choice but to flee from countries that had become too dangerous, in particular Syria, Iraq, Libya, Yemen, Afghanistan or Burundi. It must be understood that this does not only concern journalists themselves, it also concerns the fact that journalists are the voice of the people. They speak on behalf of these people. Without them, how could we understand the fate of the inhabitants on the ground? Reporters Without Borders condemns the impunity enjoyed by their assassins and the complicity of governments who prefer not to maintain press freedom. On this point, I would like to recall that we have tabled a motion for a resolution stressing the need to appoint a UN Special Representative for the protection of journalists. Finally, with regard to the destruction of cultural property during armed conflicts, we look forward to much in this regard. I care about this subject. He returned to the centre of news with Daesh, who not only attacked religious minorities in Syria and Iraq, not only women by reserving to them the unworthy fate of sexual slaves, but also to the cultural and artistic heritage of these countries. This heritage is part of the very origins of our humanity, our own culture, through the great monotheisms that characterize this region and the whole of Europe. In Syria, the sites are being looted by all the forces involved, with Daesh carrying out major destruction. In Iraq, cultural heritage has been looted and destroyed for more than 25 years. Thieves have dug countless holes on archaeological sites in search of cuneiform tablets, statuettes, jewellery for sale, especially in the south of the country, destroying forever the architecture and stratigraphy of the sites. How can we respond to this situation? On 12 February 2015, the United Nations adopted a resolution condemning the destruction of cultural heritage and the trafficking of antiquities from Iraq and Syria. UNESCO is working with Interpol, customs, museums and major sales venues to prevent the sale of stolen items. I know that the removal – I anticipate your question, Mr Laaouej, because I know that this is a subject of particular interest to you – of the cell within the Belgian police raises questions to which the Minister of the Interior replies that the tasks of this cell were carried out by all the PJFs. In any event, whatever the structure, our country must absolutely participate in this work to combat the destruction of cultural heritage. This is a duty for humanity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u93	Mr Miller, in this context, what do you think about the ratification of the UNIDROIT Convention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u94	I'm telling you that we absolutely have to work on it! It is therefore a duty for humanity, because there is an important scientific and economic potential. That, Mr President, Mr Minister, is some of the elements to which our group is particularly attentive: the defence of journalists, the protection of cultural and artistic heritage, but also other issues that will probably be developed by my colleagues. In any case, we will often have the opportunity to talk about a theme around which we will have to combine our efforts, namely the need for a European military force supported by a European arms industry. To do so, States must carry out their missions. That is why, Minister of Defence, we are pleased to approve the progress that is being made within your department.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u95	Mr President, I would like to protest against two facts. The first point is that the chapter on Foreign Policy is already on the agenda for the third time for the third time for the year 2014, 2015 and 2016 as the last item on the agenda. In the Flemish Parliament there is a system in which this is changed regularly. I would like us to have a decent opportunity next year to discuss my second point with the Foreign Minister. Mr Miller has rightly said that so much is changing in foreign policy so quickly that it would have been good if our Foreign Minister had been here with us today. In protest against his absence, I will confine myself to questions to Minister De Croo to which I have not received any answers in committee. Those questions are twofold. Firstly, the Minister can give us more information about the Humanitarian Impact Bond, a new technique that has been introduced. In my opinion, Belgium participates in a Humanitarian Impact Bond together with the International Committee of the Red Cross. Maybe there are others, I don't know. I only know one. In short, with which other NGO partners do I know one of them: the International Committee of the Red Cross, are we working together for the Humanitarian Impact Bond? Who are the private investors who stepped in? Which investment agency supervises the issuance of the impact bond. Who will be the independent auditor? My second question is more general about the fact that by the end of the legislative term, the current government will cut an amount of EUR 1.6 to 1.7 billion from the budget of development cooperation by both savings and underutilisation. As an alternative, the Minister has proudly proposed to attract private funds to invest in development cooperation projects. How much of the EUR 1.6 or 1.7 billion, which will be spent less, will be replaced by private funds? After all, I would like to make the overall picture. In my presentation to the committee, I drew the Minister's attention to the fact that the DAC (OECD Development Assistance Committee) together with a number of countries which have been experimenting for longer than Belgium on attracting private funds, as it is called, as mixed private and public financing of development cooperation, has carried out a study on 15 critical points. Countries that want to start using blended finance must pay attention to this. I asked the Minister how many of these 15 recommendations we are fine with. In other words, which of these 15 recommendations can we say that Belgium has complied with or not taken on private funds and what does the Minister propose in this respect? After all, as former chairman of the special ABOS committee, in the 1990s I had to identify the damaging effects of commercial pollution on development cooperation. Unfortunately, we have often found that the business interests of private actors were more important than the development relevance of the projects. We would not like to see this happening again in our eyes. That is why the 15 critical points that the OECD DAC is calling attention to are so important.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u96	Minister, I have two questions for you. My first question concerns the debate that has taken place in committee. Unfortunately, I have not been able to hear your answers to my questions live, because I was stuck on another committee at the time. You know that it has been very busy discussing the budget and the policy papers. Apart from the general tendency on your department to save the figures, Mr Van der Maelen has just listed them, we find it remarkable that EUR 27.4 million is also being saved on humanitarian programmes. Why is that so remarkable? Because you assured me during the discussion of the State of the Union a few months ago during the night debate that we would save on development cooperation, but not on humanitarian projects. For the sake of clarity, we are talking about donations and subsidies to the Red Cross and to the UN Refugee Organisation, i.e. a number of multilateral organisations that are doing very useful humanitarian work. You reassured me and told me that we would not save on that. However, we note in the budget that this is the case, that EUR 27.4 million is saved in this sector and that the budget goes from 177.4 million to 150 million. First of all, how can you justify that, despite the promise you made a few months ago? Secondly, development cooperation is also about migration. You have made a statement that stimulates my curiosity. You said in De Agrea that our country has already received 65 000 Syrians. I tried social media in vain to get some explanation from you. Now that I can catch you live, I'm not gonna miss this opportunity. I would like to hear from you how you get the figure of 65 000 Syrians that our country has already received since the beginning of the conflict.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u97	Mr President, Minister of Defence, I am addressing you to say that your policy paper is actually a reflection of this government's savings policy. Nevertheless, the level of ambition of Defense remains unchanged. That's quite a contradiction. Your note adheres to the strategic vision of Defence, while each of us has for a long time realised that your vision is becoming absolutely unfeasible. I'm referring to an incident a month ago. The government decided to raise the retirement age for military by seven years. You then stated that soldiers will belong to the category of heavy-duty professionals. In the end, we had to see that nothing had yet been decided. Admit it, that's a rather uncomfortable approach. It is high time you made yourself clear. You cannot implement both the strategic plan and raise the retirement age. After all, the strategic plan stands or falls with the fixing of the retirement age for the military. Defence wants to rejuvenate over the next few years and to be reduced to an army of 25 000 men, because it wants to invest in large-scale material. That all falls into the water when the retirement age goes up. Minister, I expected to find solutions in your policy paper, but you are acting like nothing is wrong. However, also the CHOD, General Compernol, came a few weeks ago to say that the strategic vision with such principles is impossible. Even operationality is compromised. For him 2017 will be a tilting year on some major investment files, namely fighter aircraft, frigates, mine hunters, vehicles, drones. Apparently you're the only one who doesn't see it, Minister, but the water comes to your lips and all the military. It seems to me to be the ideal opportunity for you to reflect on this. Maybe you should ask yourself if we need those fighters. Whether that's feasible. The Council of State stated in an opinion last week that the military programme law is unconstitutional. Minister, you may be hoping to find a lot of answers under the Christmas tree, and I hope you will be able to announce some good intentions in January.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u98	Mr President, as far as the Food Security Fund is concerned, I note that in Belgium it is not obvious to delete something, especially when it comes to a structure. The journey lasted about two years with the desire to remove a structure that, as the OECD-DAC tells us, works too much in separate "silos" and that food security should not be seen as an element in itself but should be part of a broader strategy. We have had the opportunity to discuss it often in committee and I know that you have a different opinion, but you yourself have mentioned the guarantees that will follow. Indeed, as part of a broader government policy aimed at eliminating all funds where possible, the Fund will be abolished but current projects committed will be implemented. As you know, the amounts set aside will be allocated to a new basic allowance starting in 2017. Indeed, the budgets that are being paid by the National Lottery and that are increasing slightly will be immunized. Food security will be part of "Agriculture and food security" which is a good solution. We have discussed this and I know that you believe that agriculture must remain in a modest and family environment, but I think we need to find a balance. Today, in sub-Saharan Africa, the majority of family farmers do not produce enough to meet the nutritional needs of their own families. We must stop having this romantic view of family farming. I do not claim that it does not have its place, but it will be accompanied by an increase in productivity. We therefore want to abolish a structure, but I do not think that this happens often enough in Belgium. However, we have almost succeeded. In reply to Mr Miller, I will pass on all the information to my colleague Mr Reynders. Mr Van der Maelen, a few points. Firstly, as regards the Humanitarian Impact Bond and its status. One is about in the phase of the rounding. The one with the International Red Cross has so far been the only one, although we have seen that there is a great deal of interest in the technique we use. So our partner is the International Red Cross. Belgium and Switzerland have so far been donors. So far, there is one private partner, La Caixa, a Spanish financial institution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u99	Mr Minister, Mrs Grovonius asked you about a number of very specific points, with a very detailed argument; she explained that expertise had developed with NGOs, with parliamentarians, with projects whose effectiveness was recognised by all. Basically, you do not respond or in a rather peripheral way. You explain that she has one opinion and you have another, that we need to take an integrated approach with agriculture. But at the same time, you are not explaining how the other option of telling yourself that the parliamentary initiative can be interesting, that there is recognition at NGO level, that all this has always been recognised and that, therefore, there is a performance in the implementation of these programmes, to all this you are not responding to. You're just saying that you have another opinion, repeating the principle that every time you want to delete something, it's difficult. Excuse me, but that's not an argument. You're on the periphery and not on the bottom!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u100	Mr Laaouej, you did not follow the discussions in committee. We spent about five hours discussing this in detail. If you want to resume the discussion, you have the right to ask for it. I find that...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u101	There are questions that you are asked in plenary. Don't just say, "We talked about it in committee, I don't answer it." If questions are asked in plenary, answer in plenary. I'm just pointing this out because you make it feel like you're taking things over your leg. Questions are asked, answer in plenary too. This was again known earlier with the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Budget. Why are we having a debate in plenary then? Let us delete the debates in plenary. Is that what you want? We can even delete the parliament if you want.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u102	I will pass the floor to the minister. Mr. Laaouej, you made your point.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u103	Sometimes one has the impression of being a bit in a children's garden, but bon, no problem. I am quite prepared to let myself be taught by Mr. Laaouej on how I should respond. We will do so in more detail if you find that I have not answered the questions. The problem is that in Belgian development, interventions were too scattered. In itself, the interventions of the Belgian Food Security Fund were good, but in places where other NGOs were also present, as well as the CTB and the multilaterals, without any kind of complementarity. The analysis was done. Mrs Grovonius, you say there was no analysis. The main point of the OECD DAC's analysis was that there was not enough complementarity in Belgian interventions. You say that the Fund was not specifically mentioned. That is true, but many elements have not been specifically mentioned. The general observation was that there has been a good job in Belgian development, but more complementarity needs to be sought. It is the reasoning that has been followed. You say this fund was run by parliament. I have the impression that this is your only argument, as if, since it is managed by Parliament, it is necessarily a good thing. I find this argument a little poor, a little limited. Give me another argument that proves its value.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u104	You're in the caricature. You're the one who's deleting this fund. It is therefore up to you to demonstrate that it should actually be deleted. So far, however, I have not heard any valid evaluation evidence, based on valid criteria, to say that this fund should actually be abolished. You're telling me about this OECD report. At no time does he mention the Belgian Food Security Fund. At no time have the actions carried out by this fund been evaluated. That's the opposite! Indeed, the OECD insists on an integrated policy in which NGOs, Belgian actors (CTB, etc.) This is precisely what was happening in this Belgian Food Security Fund. All the actors were around the table. I am sorry, but your arguments are not valid and do not justify the deletion of this fund. It is not up to me to demonstrate this, but it is up to you to present a real evaluation of the Belgian Food Safety Fund and to prove to us that there may be a concern and that we should reorient or abolish it. But at this stage, there is no evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u105	Minister, have you had a consultation with the NGOs? If so, with which and if not, why?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u106	Mr Laaouej, I have consultations with NGOs...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u107	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u108	Are we actually sitting here in a children's garden? Mr President, there may be some respect. A minister is asked to give an answer. I said two words, and I'm already being interrupted. This way, we'll still be here at 6:00.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u109	Minister, you have the floor, without interruption.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u110	I have consulted NGOs very regularly. Has there been any specific consultation on this topic? No! Of course not.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u111	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u112	There were five working groups on the Food Security Fund. I myself participated in one of these consultations. In the 30 years that this Fund exists, no Minister for Development Cooperation has ever attended a consultation on this subject. I was the first to go. We've had five occasions to discuss it, but you have a different opinion than ours. This can happen. This is also often the case for other themes. The general rule is that Belgian development was far too scattered. From your point of view, the only thing to consider is how much you spend. A minister who spends a lot is a good minister. On the other hand, a minister who does not spend much is a bad minister. We have a different opinion. We believe that the way we measure is not to look at how much we spend, but to see what the impact is. However, this impact is not measured by expenditure, but we need to consider how we can make the investments we make more profitable. And here, indeed, it is quite true that we are trying to ensure that investments in food security are part of a more comprehensive policy. This was difficult enough to do with a fund that was managed by parliament. By integrating it into general policy, it will be easier to have more complementarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u113	After that, I'm going to stop the controversy, but at some point, we have to stop with the counter-truths. Indeed, this may be the first time in thirty years that a minister has come to the meeting of the Belgian Food Security Fund, but I want to say: so much the better! What you call a consultation, I call it a minister who comes to the meeting to announce that he will abolish the Belgian Food Security Fund. If this is your vision of consultation, above all, no longer participate in meetings! Stay in your office! Really, it's not useful!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u114	We are not used to it even though we were colleagues in the Senate where we exchanged a lot. I discover you champion of the petition of principle. The premises are confused with the conclusions. What you need to demonstrate is already part of the premise. The conclusions are mixed with the elements you put forward. There is something that, in the declaratory, minister, is wrong. You just said that every time you want to delete something, it bothers you, that you have a different opinion from ours but that's how it is. That's not how politics is done! I'm asking you a very simple question. In this sector, civil society is central, cardinal and NGOs play a fundamental role. When I ask you whether on this specific dossier, which is the removal of this Food Security Fund, you have consulted the NGOs, you tell me: "No, I have not consulted them." It's information. This means basically that it is a unilateral decision which ultimately involves, because you have not consulted civil society, a form of disdain towards civil society and a form of denial of work that has been done by civil society. Why are we acting here? Why are we intervening here? Because obviously, there are people who are indignant about the decision you are making, because there have been extremely concrete projects that have been carried out efficiently, with ground conquered on hunger in the world, with concrete elements that can be demonstrated. That is why, Mr Minister, the cavalier way in which you come here in plenary to tell us "you have a different opinion from ours, that's how it is, that's not serious", it's not right!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u115	That will be the last answer. It is not always possible to ask the same question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u116	It is possible that I speak poorly in French. You can't say I didn't use an argument. I used it. The arguments are that we are seeking greater complementarity, and actions in the Fund were difficult to integrate into a broader policy. For you, that's a goal, but for us, that's an argument. That is what we are trying to do: to have more complementarity, we were unable to do so. You suggest that, as a result of the removal of this fund, NGOs no longer have a role to play. That is not the case at all. Budgets remain the same. They are part of a more comprehensive framework for agriculture and food security, where NGOs play an important role. NGOs will therefore continue to play an important role. You say that NGOs play an important role in development policy. That's right. But for 80%, we're funding. It's public money that finances. So, at some point, the government and parliament decide what means the taxpayer gives us. That we decide how we allocate these funds is quite logical. It is quite normal for us to do this in this way. You say it's unilateral. No, it's not unilateral, it's a government decision. Yes, it is a political decision. When you use the taxpayer's money, naturally it's a political decision. That's right!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u117	You look annoyed, Mr. President. I still have the right to have a debate with the minister! Minister, there are a lot of sectors where we subsidize (the cultural sector, the education sector) and where we engage in concerted action. Concertation makes it possible to make good use of public funds. We can say: what do you think of the priorities? Can we think together about how we can effectively use the taxpayer's money? It is, of course, a political decision, but how does it prevent us from coming together? I repeat, we must act on it: on your decision, you told us that you did not cooperate with NGOs and civil society. Of which act.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u118	That took about 20 minutes for a simple answer. I want to continue with the Humanitarian Impact Bond, the only one we are currently working with. We need to look carefully at how this works. We note that many donor countries are interested, but it is not so easy to draw them over the line. It is something relatively new and often difficult to place. Today, our country and Switzerland have promised. We are still in discussion with the United Kingdom, but it is not certain that it will succeed. There is also a private investor, the Spanish financial institution La Caixa. We do this together with the ICRC. It has not yet been decided which company will facilitate this and carry out the audit. In principle, the process of fundraising and choosing the auditor is managed by the International Committee of the Red Cross. We launch this together with the ICRC, because we were the first donor country. In the end, it is the ICRC that sets this up and structures it. We hope to be able to implement this early next year. The total budget is likely to amount to 25 million. Our first act was to get to 40 million, but it probably won't work. Then I want to talk about the savings and the private resources. It was never said that private funding would be an alternative to the reduction in ODA spending. One was never placed opposite the other. These private money flows exist today and are becoming increasingly important. They are also centralized by the Addis Ababa Agenda. For the first time, it is said that there are different financial flows, such as remittances, ODA but also foreign investments, which have an important role to play. We must try to ensure that these private money flows, which are a reality today, are sealed as well as possible within the objectives that we want to achieve. I will never drop one thing against another, but I can see that these private flows play an important role. I would therefore also like to see the Belgian industry, for example, play an important role in this. Those private money flows can be an accelerator of what we do with government funds. One does not, in my view, replace the other at all. Mr De Vriendt, first of all, the figures for humanitarian aid. I'd like to remind you of this. In 2014, the total humanitarian aid budget was 102 million euros. In 2015, it was raised to 150 million. That's a lot higher. In 2016, it was exceptionally 177 million. This year it will be brought back to 150 million. If you interpret it very literally, compared to 2016, then it is slightly less but actually my comparison point was earlier 2015 or even 2014. I do not want to make the comparison with 2014, because that was under the previous government. But that 150 million is what we started in 2015. At that level, we remain exactly the same. Then there was a question about what I said in The Appointment. This is about figures from Asylum and Migration and, in principle, I am discussing Development Cooperation here, but I will answer your question. The question asked by Walter Zinzen was: where is the compassion in this country? I have given a number of examples to make it clear that in my view compassion is quite different from filtering out one particular family and accentuating our compassion on it. Although the situation of that family is a very difficult situation and I am not saying that there should be no compassion there. However, the government needs to define its compassion much more broadly than extracting a number of private cases that sound good in the media. If we look at the figures, the total number of asylum applications submitted over the last two years is slightly above 65 000. There are also just over 60 000 who were entitled to care in our country, almost all of which used it. It is very clear that even under this government anyone who could be taken care of, anyone who has asked for shelter, has actually received care. I think there has been one carelessness in my statement, and I want to be honest about that. I made it clear that it was only about Syrian asylum seekers, and that was actually a mistake. But my general plea was to answer the question where the compassion of this government is with an overview of where the compassion of this government is. I've put it wrong, as if compassion was just about the Syrian crisis, when it's broader than that. Of course, it is also about Afghans and Iraqis, but if you look at asylum seekers, it is mostly about that region. Box it in. What's the compassion? I have given you an example of what compassion was, but indeed, when I looked at it afterwards, it seemed as if it was only about Syrians, which was not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u119	There was another question for the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u120	Mr Top, I am completely confused by your question. I would almost think that you would prefer the strategic vision that this government has finally adopted to be implemented. I can only hear you ask when this or that measure will be implemented or you predict that we will not be able to implement this or that measure. I therefore assume that you will forget the position of sp.a., who considers only an army of 15 000 men and a budget of 1.5 billion, and go for the Vandeput plan, which provides for an army of 25 000 well-equipped soldiers. For which I would like to thank you very much, Mr Top. I would like to ask you here for the report which I have already asked for in committee, namely not to put words in my mouth. Journalists are sometimes allowed to twist things and put words in their mouths, but if you do so here in Parliament for the report, I must also correct you in Parliament for the report. I never said military is a heavy occupation. However, I have stated that military is a very specific profession. I will also stress this in the Pension Committee. I have also said that, in my view, the military profession is very much in line with the four requirements which make it possible to classify a profession as a heavy occupation and on which there is consensus. Those are the two things I said. I will continue to repeat them, and I want you to quote them correctly in the hemisphere. Mr Top, I am sure you have read my plan very carefully. In any case, you have put a question to Parliament on about every page. You could have taken note of our response to the challenges we face. We want to rejuvenate the army and we'll weigh it down. These two targets appear to be contradictory in the first instance. If you believe that this is really true, you can call with the trade unions and the people in the defence sector who have gradually become convinced for whatever reason that they are for nothing other than for their duties in the defence sector today. If you want to strengthen them in their faith, you must continue to do so. On the other hand, I believe that any military skills that are valuable to the defence industry, but also in another profession, a monitoring function, an administrative function, a transport function, a management function, whatever function you can think of. The government is working hard to achieve its two objectives: firstly, to keep pensions affordable in the long term, which means that everyone will have to work a little longer in the future and, secondly, to rejuvenate and reduce the army, as specifically defined in the strategic vision. Well, one of the solutions in that context will be to help a number of soldiers, not the 56-year-olds, but to help young people start a different career in the labour market. You may call me naive, but I am sure this is possible, because Defence offers a thorough training to the military, training, which can be useful and valuable in other places. You also mentioned the speech of the Chief of Defence in Parliament. You have to ask him your questions. He's the CEO of the company that's DOD. If he says in Parliament that operationality is being compromised, I regret that, because I have not received a report stating that the defence staff can no longer operate. (Protests from Mr Top)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u121	Let the Minister speak, Mr Top.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u122	Again, I say that my defence staff did not inform me of the fact that Defence would no longer be operational. In fact, I'd say the army proves the opposite every day. The military are still doing very well in our streets and in the various operations in which they operate. Finally, I would like to thank you, Mr Top. I didn't think it would come from your banks, that you would be so contemplative in this Christmas season. In any case, I would like to thank you for the advice you have given me to give me a moment of reflection during the Christmas period, as I usually do.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u123	I think the Minister has already passed the ceremony and he's taking his wishes for truth. You can assume from me that our group still does not support this strategic vision. You know our opinion on this, so I'm sure it's clear. If I have misunderstood your statements on the increase in pensions, on the one hand, and the implementation of the strategic plan, on the other, then apparently I am not the only one. On 15 November, 10 000 soldiers were at your door who had also misunderstood. Either it's them and me and then we all have to use hearing aids, or it's you. You should think about that. I wish you a great deal of courage in giving career changes to people. People do have to change jobs, but all previous plans, big plans to change jobs in the government have not been successful so far. I would like to point that out. I wish you a great deal of courage to succeed. Finally, if you refer to the CHOD and the hearing, you should have been there, Minister. Then you would have heard what he said and announced. He literally said that, if the savings were to continue, at the end of the legislature, he would be in trouble about the operationality of the army. That was his statement, and you can read that very well in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u124	Mr President, I would like to thank Minister De Croo for his honesty. I want to stay in the spirit of Christmas, but I would like to outline the context very briefly. The context was the government's decision to transfer the Aleppo family to Lebanon. A number of people said that we should pay attention to this because Lebanon is already receiving 1.5 million refugees. I said in this House that Belgium has recognised 12 414 Syrian refugees since 2011. A number of resettlements and family reunifications are added. On television, you state that Belgium is receiving 65 000 Syrian refugees. You gave the message to the viewer in the television programme De Aangeld that Belgium is already receiving a lot of Syrian refugees. You put that on Twitter, too. Reality is different. We are talking about 0.1% of our population. That is absolutely not comparable to Lebanon. I think it is important throughout the whole issue of refugees that this is corrected and that no wrong message is given to public opinion. It would be a good thing for you to also correct your tweet about those 65 000 Syrian refugees. After all, that tweet has been retweeted a lot. I think we should not underestimate the fact that there is a conflict of ideas going on in public opinion, and it is wrong to give false information there. It would be good if you wanted to correct this on your Twitter account, but it is entirely up to you to decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u125	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u126	We will begin the discussion of the articles of the draft law on the Budget for the financial year 2017. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2108/1) We proceed to the discussion of the sections of the bill containing the 2017 Budget for Ways and Means. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2108/1) The draft law has 21 articles. The bill has 21 clauses. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u127	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the draft law on the Resources Budget for the financial year 2017 will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the entire bill containing the 2017 Budget for Ways and Means will take place at a later date. We begin the discussion of the articles of the draft general budget for the financial year 2017. The text adopted by the committees is the basis for discussion. (Regt 85, 4) (2109/1+2108/5) We proceed to the discussion of the sections of the bill containing the General Estimates for the 2017 fiscal year. The text adopted by the committees serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) ( 2109/1+2208/5 ) * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u128	Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) 2.01.6 • 9 – Hendrik Vuye cs (2109/43)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u129	******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u130	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments retained, the Article 2.016, the tables in the annex and on the whole of the draft bill on the general expenditure budget for the financial year 2017 will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments, the reserved Article 2.01.6 and the annexed tables, as well as on the whole bill containing the general budget of expenditure for the 2017 budget year, will take place at a later date. We begin the discussion of the articles of the draft law amending for the second time the general expenditure budget for the financial year 2016. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2176/1) We proceed to the discussion of the sections of the bill containing the second adjustment to the 2016 General Estimates for the fiscal year. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2176/1) The draft law contains 5 articles. The bill has five articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u131	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We begin by discussing the articles of the Programme Act. The text adopted by the committees is the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2208/11) We turn to the articles of the program law. The text adopted by the committees serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2208/11) The draft law has 128 articles. The bill has 128 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-20-54-plenair-ip147x.u132	****** The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 21 December 2016 at 10 a.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday, December 21, 2016 at 10.00 hours.
