ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u2	I would remind you of the Rules of Procedure, which state that speaking time for an oral question is two minutes, the answer is also two minutes and the reply is one minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u3	Mr President, Prime Minister, the situation is catastrophic and absolutely unacceptable. I went to prison and met the prison staff, the police and the army, who, with an unheard of professional conscience, are working hard to avoid the worst. I also had the opportunity to talk to inmates, they're all at a standstill. As soon as yesterday, Mr. Elio Di Rupo received a hundred agents from all the unions. The observation is identical: these people are in the deepest disarray and the situation is unbearable. You're making humans suffer what we wouldn't do to animals. This disastrous situation in our prisons is the result of your irresponsible policy. You impose blind austerity by reducing the number of people in public services. Agents work under extremely difficult conditions. More and more missions are being imposed with fewer resources and fewer staff. What about prisoners living in inhuman and degrading conditions, unworthy of a civilized society of the twenty-first century? These conditions are tantamount to torture: almost more shower, more contact with their families, more preau, confinement in nine square meters to several in abominable sanitary conditions. In the face of this situation, what is the government doing? He's sending the army to our prisons. This is unacceptable! The army is already limited in its material and human resources. Over the last few months, she's been on all the sauces. It's not her role to monitor prisons. It also shows how much your government despises public services, how much your government despises social consultation. The prison world is obviously the victim of this disinvestment in the public sector as you reduce investment and pursue a policy of dewatering all the country's public services. Yet, Prime Minister, the solution is in front of you: with historically low interest rates, let us reinvest in the public sector since it is the very heart of the state! Prime Minister, how do you justify the requisition of the army in prisons without resolving the fundamental question of the resources allocated to the prison environment? What solutions will you bring to the agents? What will you put in place to guarantee humane conditions of detention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u4	Mr. Speaker, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, no one is holding up anymore! Not the prison officers, not the detainees, not the families, not the police, not the military and not especially the mayors! Let me give you an overview of the situation in Tournai, certainly not the worst, but which suffers from all the evils you inflict on the sector. The prison is in a deplorable state of old age and, in order to deal with it, the prison has only 137 full-time equivalents while the framework would require 150! Your rationalization plan targets 140! Imagine! We're already on the sidelines. The situation in my city's prison is this: agents at the end, prisoners who set fire to their cells, families who no longer bear the burden of not seeing their loved ones, police officers who come in reinforcement and who are attacked with shotguns, even attempts to escape. Anyway, a real cauldron! As mayor, I would like to stress this situation, which hinders the proper functioning of the police. Police officers are unable to carry out their duties. Federal reinforcement is random. Work is accumulating within the police. These are apostilles that are no longer filled, domiciliations not done, neighbourhood work, everything that the citizen asks for that is abandoned. The courts and tribunals have reminded the State very recently: some of the detainees live in inhuman and degrading conditions and you are responsible for this situation. Prison officers are on the brink of the nerve crisis because of the working conditions that are imposed and you are also responsible for this situation because it is you who have decided this rationalization plan. At the end of 2014, the European Court of Human Rights already condemned the Belgian State for the state of its prisons. Rather than investing in this sector, your government decides to continue to cut budgets lightly. I come to my questions, Mr. President. Would you dare say, ministers, that at the present time there are not 500 officers lacking to ensure that the work is properly carried out in prisons? Would you dare say and repeat that it is not useful to increase the staff cadre? If the staff, as you said last week, Minister of Justice, is not the solution, give it to me! Would you dare say that there are no savings to be made in this sector? Would you dare say again that, in the justice sector, you will continue to save money? When are you finally going to stop this rationalization plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u5	Mr President, Prime Minister, I do not know whether it will be necessary to wait for a tragedy of unsuspected magnitude due to a revolt by the detainees, due to an incident of particular gravity between the staff called for reinforcement in the prisons – be it the police forces, the armed forces – and the detainees, in order for the government to take stock of the human tragedy that is taking place in some prisons in this country. The call of the bar associations, of all the bars, francophones and German speakers in the country, but also of the Dutch-speaking bar in Brussels, should appeal to you. You should be aware that, in the face of such a situation, it is not acceptable for the days to go by without your government taking this problem to heart. This problem is indicative of the state of collapse in which justice is left in this country. This is not the government's own, I recognize it. However, this has been compounded by the reduction of certain budgetary appropriations under this government. So it is time for you to gain a vision of the future not only for the world of justice, but especially for the management of the prison world. It is not only possible, through the passing of laws, to impose increasingly burdensome measures on prisoners, including longer and longer sentences, bans on exits, reduced conditional release, and at the same time not to give accompanying measures to staff members in prisons. It is not only the appeal of prison officers for a sufficient number of supervisory measures in prisons that is at issue, it is the very conception of the management of the prison world that is called into question by the strike of prison officers. Minister, what is your ambition to finally get the prison world out of the misery in which this country has been placing it for so many years?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u6	Prime Minister, we know the context. Sunday noon, facing the camera and the population, the Minister of Justice told us: "I came to the end. I can't afford to negotiate anymore. I need to look to my partners and the government to know what I can still do to accompany the negotiations." On Tuesday morning, in the Committee on Justice, I would like you to be present among the Commissioners, so that you can explain to us the response you are making to your minister and the means you are planning to make available to him. Your majority's answer was to wait until Thursday: "You can ask any topical questions you want. Give time and opportunity to trade union negotiations." Was that irony in some people's mouth? Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, How long will it take, Prime Minister, for your Minister of Justice's call for help to be heard and for you to give, with your majority, the means to get out of this crisis? A crisis which is not new; a crisis which is usual, which repeats itself, I said last week here, with the same questions, without the same solutions. Minister, while you're not doing anything, while your silence is deafening, while we don't hear the MR on the issue, there are prison guards who are now on the front line to feel the effects of your drastic cuts in resources in the public service. They need to be replaced by police officers whose job is not. At the same time, your cuts in resources prevent prisoners from living with a minimum of dignity and oblige the judicial world, which itself also feels betrayed by this executive, because of your infirmity, because of our incuracy, to make arrangements to ensure a minimum of dignity in our prisons. Minister, when are you going to bring to this Parliament, to public opinion and to the workers who are on strike the answers they are entitled to wait for us to get out of this crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u7	Mr President, Minister of Justice, I am aware that you are very much in demand for the moment and that the resolution of the social conflict is becoming your priority. Nevertheless, I cannot help but react to the reading of several articles in the press concerning the evolution of the state of the detainees, in need of drugs following this long strike by the prison officers. The image of our country is again in danger of being upset. Indeed, these statements leave a terribly embarrassing doubt about the overseers and how they practice their profession. Most of our fellow citizens have the impression that either the agents voluntarily bring drugs into prison or they do not exercise a drastic enough control over the visitors. In either case, it is obviously deplorable. I cannot convince myself that the agents are rounding their end of month by engaging in any kind of traffic. The other hypothesis is that they would not do their job properly with all the necessary professional consciousness. Here's my question, minister. Do they have the most suitable material means to exercise control over visitors? Are they in sufficient numbers to be able to carry out their tasks properly and fully? Above all, minister, how do you intend to clear up this riddle and re-emphasize the coat of arms of this ungrateful profession, knowing that you cannot satisfy their present demands?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, our country is once again a bad man with the strike on the prison staff that has been going on for more than two weeks. In our view, there are two main causes. Firstly, for years there has been a lack of investment in the justice system and in the prison system. We've been carrying that around for many years. Secondly, the massive saving exercise of this government which has also affected the justice system. The impact on infrastructure is very serious. Do we think it is normal that today, in the 21st century, prisons from the 19th century are still used, without toilets, but with toilet buckets? The consequences are also very serious for staff who have to work daily in very difficult conditions in those outdated institutions. The consequences are also serious for prisoners, because in many institutions the situation is degrading. Normally the prisoners get food three times a day, but now they get food all day long. Nine square metres of cells contain two to three inmates. Shower can be showered once every three days. I can go on like this for a while. The staff members have listed the problems; you have read them. The situation is untenable. We have been repeatedly flagged by international bodies about the circumstances in which the detainees reside. What's bothering me is the persistent drive to save money. Keep saving! There's only one credo. We're gonna save our asses on essential public service obligations. After all, when the guards can no longer handle the work, policemen are sent, but they are also affected by savings. They're already on their gums, also because of the terror threat. If the police can't handle it anymore, the army will be sent to solve everything. But the army is also faced with savings. That's untenable. It's gonna have to be different. We really need to move towards a policy of investing in the prison system, with a long-term vision, and also working towards a healthy social environment. Minister, you said it was a matter for the government. So the question to the Prime Minister is how the government will solve this. Minister Nodes, you're not sitting in this place by chance. Normally, Members of Parliament are here asking questions. You're probably going to ask the Prime Minister for money now, because you're going to need it. The second question is how you will deal with this situation. How can you ensure that the humanitarian situation in prison is optimally regulated?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u9	Prime Minister, there is no discussion about the very poor living and working conditions in prisons. Think of the outdated infrastructure and the overcrowding. That is actually the result of years of under-financing, something that some opposition parties have apparently already forgotten, I am thinking in particular of the PS............................................................................................................................................................................................... But we also determine other things. I note that there is no strike in Flanders, although there are even fewer staff per prisoner there than in Wallonia. I note that this has become a political strike on the hood of the detainees. I note that trade unions do not defend an agreement they conclude with the Minister about more staff. They did so via Facebook, colleagues, via Facebook. I also note that in Marche-en-Famenne, however, a new prison, workers are refused access to prison. In a new prison. The result is a strike that is now taking place in its third week, with basic rights of the detainees who are being violated. They often don't have running water, now they can't shower either. They have no contact with family or lawyer, no walk. In the meantime, the Belgian State is also ordered to pay damages. After the prison director, police and army jump in. Prime Minister, that cannot last. That is why I have the following question, which is also a suggestion. Until such time as the minimum service has been approved, you would not be calling on an old law of 1939, namely the law on civil mobility. A socialist mayor from Ghent, Mr Termont, has recently shown this to you. What happened in Ghent? A strike stopped picking up the garbage. He considered that in this case public health was a priority of the right to strike and claimed the pickers. That applies perfectly to the situation in prisons today. Public health is at risk. Mrs Özen has just shown this herself. There is no shower and there are no walks. It's about thousands of interned people. Moreover, as far as public security is concerned, the police and the military have something else to do. Prime Minister, the public interest is there. The government may decide on that measure. So my question is as follows. Will you requisition the prison staff? In other words, will you do Termontje?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u10	Prime Minister, is it the guard's fault? Is it the inmates' fault? Is it the government's fault? Is it the police's fault? Is it the army's fault? Is it the fault of anyone? The situation is more complicated than it is presented here today. Our prisons are overcrowded. There are more than 11 000 prisoners for a capacity of barely 10 000 places. But what do we see in prisons? That is that of the more than 11 300 prisoners are 5 421 strangers. These are prisoners, criminals of foreign nationality. They do not have Belgian nationality nor do they have dual nationality. They have a foreign nationality. This means that 46 to 47 percent of our prison population are foreigners. What else do we see? We note that of 5 421 foreigners in our prisons, 3 280 prisoners are illegal persons, i.e. persons who are illegally resident as a foreigner in our country. What's the solution? Is the solution to build up prisons? Is the solution to adding another can of guards? Is the solution to deploy the army or the police? No. Prime Minister, I offer you the solution for free and for nothing. The solution is to allow foreign prisoners, at least the more than 3 000 illegal criminal aliens in our prisons, to serve their sentence in their country of origin. That is the solution, and you have known it for years, but you are not doing anything about it. All the problems, ladies and gentlemen of N-VA, are once again bound by the presence of foreigners in our country. If almost half of the prisoners in our prisons are foreigners and more than half of those foreign prisoners are illegals, then the solution is simple. Make sure they serve their sentences in their country of origin and not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u11	Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, last Monday, I went to the strike pickets at Lantin prison and met with some 30 prison officers who were very concerned about the future of the sector in which they work, very concerned about what would happen to the management capacities of all the social problems that we are asking them to solve in prisons. According to testimonies that arrived at me, I learned that in Lantin, where there is normally room for 340 people, traditionally, union action was taken when the limit of 500 prisoners was crossed. Today, there are 580 detainees. And they are asked only one thing: to remain silent and to accept the fact as sheep. The Council of Europe has indicated that Belgium is the second country in terms of the importance of prison overcrowding. And in such a framework, Prime Minister, you continue to decide that we will make a 10 per cent linear savings on the essential public service of justice. It's easy in a fiscal year: 10%, you press the button. They're just numbers. But when in the field one in ten people is not replaced, then fire is born! And prisons, ladies and gentlemen, are just the tip of the iceberg. All the magistrates – which does not happen often in our country – have pointed the finger at the problem. The Association of Magistrates' Union wrote a letter to the effect that we could not continue like this. It is necessary to go back to 1831 to meet an equivalent initiative. In the coming weeks, the magistrates will take action. Their letter, they did not even send it to the government because they consider that you do not take into account the reality of their sector. They sent this letter to the entire nation. The challenge today is whether we still want a public service of justice. Do we still want justice that is capable of repairing or justice that will be done at the expense? Minister of Justice, it's been two weeks since you've been crying at the Prime Minister's house for a little extra budget and, obviously, he's not giving you anything! I will therefore turn directly to the Prime Minister: are you ready to refinance the public service in line with the needs?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u12	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, everyone is as indignant as they are when they look at the images and when they hear how they are being treated in prison or in the situation at the moment. It is not because one has been punished that one must also undergo inhumane treatments. Everyone agrees on this and everyone is convinced of it. I hope, for the rest, that everyone will continue to defend decent conditions in prisons, including the care for reintegration. We hear that there are problems with this too. Today it is said that the strikes relate to overcrowding, inadequate infrastructure and rationalisation or the other way of working, as it has been proposed. I understand that this is particularly difficult in Wallonia and Brussels. Apparently, there's also some confusion. However, when we talk about poor infrastructure and overpopulation, we have to note that in recent years steps have also been taken, both towards renovation and additional capacity within the prisons, as well as to new buildings, in Beveren, Ghent and Marche-en-Famenne. There were also plans, including in Dendermonde, which, however, are not realised for administrative reasons and red tape. There are also difficulties in Verviers and Haren due to procedures and administrative data. Does that mean, however, that the government has done nothing? No, steps have been taken towards infrastructure, reducing the prison population per cell. At the same time, alternative measures were introduced, such as electronic surveillance. The internees have been given a different place. Measures have been taken and steps taken, including in consultation with staff. In doing so, commitments were made with the staff, but they proved to be insufficient, although we note that the number of guards per prisoner has not fallen spectacularly in the past. Minister, what is meant by working differently? Can you give us, in a good context of this story, some more explanation about different works, as it seems to be applied in Flanders, but about which there is uncertainty in Wallonia and Brussels? What steps will you take to counter absenteeism, which apparently is also present today? What is the status of the master plan 3? What is the situation with regard to the evaluation of the strike protocol, introduced at the time under Minister De Clerck? What is the status of minimum service provision?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u13	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear, and a number of fellow Members have already said, that the wave of strikes over the last few weeks is leading to an unsustainable situation. The basic rights of the detainees cannot really be guaranteed. There have been injuries and even human lives in danger. If the fire department can't get to a prison by stabbing guards, then we have a fundamental problem. Internationally, we are subject to several convictions and now we are not even at risk of delivering a European arrest mandate. Where are we going, Prime Minister? It has been said a number of times here by Members of my group, the right to strike is fundamental, but it is not absolute. The limit is reached when everyone's rights can no longer be respected. We have reached that point today. If that limit is not respected spontaneously, then we need a rule to determine it. In other words, we will have to adopt a law guaranteeing service in prisons. That was agreed in the coalition agreement. Prime Minister and Minister of Justice, I fully respect all the efforts and patience you have shown. I understand that when we talk about minimum guaranteed services, the trade unions are not undivided positive or undivided negative. However, social dialogue continues to drag on. My group has been patient since 2008. Now we have reached a point where the government has to take a decision. My questions are clear. Firstly, where does it go and why does social dialogue not come to a solution? Secondly, when are we finally going to introduce the guaranteed service in prisons?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u14	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, like some of you, I have been on the ground – not only today, but for several months. For several months, I've heard the same thing. The prison sector is unhappy and tells me that it does not date from today or from yesterday, but from well before. We must recognize our collective responsibility. [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u15	How long has it been since 10%?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u16	Are you talking about numbers? I'll give you some right away. In 2014, prison overcrowding was 18%. Eighteen months later, it was 10%. If you take the overpopulation package, it means that in a year and a half, we have recorded a decrease of 48%. That must also be said! (Applause from the majority)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u17	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u18	Mrs. Onkelinx, let Mr. Goffin speak!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u19	I hope that's my time off.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u20	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u21	Mr President, thank you. I am sorry to say so, but as much as we can have the will to deliver strong images to prevent me from speaking by asking me to show political courage, so much the real political courage is to say that, for twenty years, we have not been so successful in prison policy in this country. Almost twenty years ago, remember, members of this assembly – from the PS, the MR and other formations – had the courage to vote for the abrogation of the death penalty. Today, I appeal to the same courage to be able to hold a taboo debate on our prison policy. The government got it. I invite you to discuss it calmly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u22	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u23	Yes, you're waiting for him. Let me read my paper. It is difficult today to speak out! I wanted to communicate important points. I would like to talk about the government's statement and invite the members of this House, when the time comes, to speak calmly about it. First, the government's will is to lower the level of imprisonment because we consider it the ultimate remedy for delinquency. [[Protests]] I know you mind being told, but that's how it is!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u24	Colleagues, may I ask you to listen to Mr Goffin?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u25	Secondly, the government has decided to undertake a reform of the Penal Code. In the population, it may be necessary to have the courage to have this debate in relation to what is done about an act that violates peace in society: you harm the physical integrity of a person, the property of individuals or the whole of society. A debate on the reform of the Penal Code was announced by the government and in the Committee on Justice a few days ago, we came to present this book I. Will we have this serene debate here in this House, in order to see what pain our society decides to assign to certain behaviour? The government also provides for alternative penalties to reduce prison overcrowding because you know very well that "everything" is not necessarily the solution. Unfortunately, I did not have time to express myself clearly, it is a shame! I still had things to say, but no doubt they were not pleasant to hear for everyone!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u26	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, the situation in Belgian prisons today is disastrous. There is overcrowding, there is a very high workload for the guards and, of course, there is outdated infrastructure. That is, of course, a problem for the prisoners. As my fellow Members have said, Belgium has been hit repeatedly by human rights organisations and by the European Union. It is also a problem for staff, who have to work in very difficult conditions. This government is the very first to really save on the budget. Since 2015, two years apart, the budget for the prison staff has gone down. This government is now bumping into its own austerity drive. We cannot simply cut the budget without creating realistic projects and putting realistic measures in place. I come to my questions, Prime Minister. This problem has been suing strikes for much longer than those two weeks. What has the government done with the signals of the past few months? What progress has been made in the negotiations with the trade unions and with the other actors, with management and so on? Finally, I will quote what Minister Geens said last Sunday: 'I have exhausted my budgetary margin. This is a matter for the government to consider. Prime Minister, what is your reaction to this? What efforts will the government make in this respect? What's the state's progress on the negotiations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u27	Mr.President, Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, on May 8, 2016, after two weeks of strike by prison officers demanding better working conditions and conditions of detention for prisoners, the Michel I government decided to send the army to remedy the shortage of staff. This is what history books will remember from your political action in a few years' time. Is this really your ambition, Prime Minister? Is that really the trace you want to leave in the political history of this country? It's incomprehensible and unworthy! It is unworthy of allowing detainees in certain settlements today to be treated in accordance with the most fundamental human rights. It is unworthy that, today, serious reintegration policies are not in place because we all know here that the vast majority of prisoners will eventually be released and we will have to reintegrate them into our society. Prime Minister, you are the captain of this ship and we ask you to act quickly and forcefully. The prison wall that you and your government face is, it is true, the result of a decade of disastrous political choices and budgetary restrictions. The master plan launched in 2008 and all operating budgets since then have materialized these political choices that have been applied to the letter by the Leterme government, the Di Rupo government and your government. Cherry on the cake, you applied an additional layer of austerity in 2014 by demanding a 10% reduction in the wage bill. My two questions will therefore be very clear, Prime Minister, Minister of Justice. What additional budget are you prepared to put on the table to break the current impasse? Can you commit to at least returning to the 2014 framework? What is your vision of prison policy in the medium and long term? What is your vision of the policy of re-integration, so that these prisoners can also be given a future, and I repeat, the vast majority of them will have to be reintegrated into our society?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the subject that is being debated this afternoon is serious and difficult. The government wants to treat him seriously. Let's be on the right side immediately. It is not up to anyone to try the past, but let us admit that the situation in prisons has been difficult for many years. There was not an ideal world, perfect, without any worries at the time of the establishment of this government and, suddenly, an exceptional deterioration of the situation. Belgium has been condemned by national and international courts on numerous occasions over the past 20 years. The government agreement took this into account by considering from the outset the need for a high-quality dialogue with representatives of the prison sector. We did so immediately with a memorandum of understanding signed in December 2014 by the Minister of Justice. This memorandum of understanding has helped to draw up a number of guidelines to try to address the concerns, the difficulties we face, to make better use of the available public money, to ensure that we can see how to improve the situation of prisoners, internees, for whom progress has been made in a few months, to work on the quality and the working environment of those working in prisons. Secondly, we have been faced with difficult times for a few weeks. We therefore accept our responsibility, with the Minister of Justice. I want to be very clear. Last week, before Friday 6 May, at the initiative of the Minister of Justice and myself, the core had given a clear mandate for negotiations. Together with you, I note that, if you are objective, a protocol was agreed on Friday 8 May between the Minister of Justice, with the full confidence of the government, and the representatives of the trade unions. And what happened during the weekend? We must see this, and I regret it, because it is a bad blow to social consultation: trade union leaders have been disavowed by the base in Wallonia and Brussels. That's the reality! So we took on our responsibilities. Since pickets block access to some prisons and make it difficult to ensure the fundamental rights of detainees, we have taken on our responsibilities by mobilising the army in reinforcement. A few words in relation to that. I remember a leader of the Socialist Party, the mayor of Andenne, who, not so long ago, in 2013, during a previous conflict, said: "We must stop putting the police in prisons. The army must be mobilized in prisons." That is what we are doing today, I hope very temporarily, in the hope that as soon as possible the situation in prisons will return to normal. Finally, some elements for the rest, because it's important. How will this government continue to act and assume its responsibilities on this issue? I would like to point out that we have agreed that in a future Kern, probably tomorrow, we will give a complementary mandate to the Minister of Justice, in which we will make proposals that touch on various points, taking into account the comments made, which are relevant and correct, on the importance of having a short-, medium- and long-term prison strategy. The first point, although progress has been made, we will continue to fight prison overcrowding. I will plead for us to give the Minister of Justice the ability to propose operational measures, with numerical targets in terms of reducing prison overcrowding, that we can evaluate regularly. That's an important point. Secondly, we will continue to work even more intensively to improve infrastructure within the framework of the Masterplan prisons, in the context of security investments. We will see how a task force, bringing together all the players, can look at how investments, not just on paper or in budgets, can be implemented to improve the infrastructure situation. A third and important point, I regret to note, is that our country is one of the last countries in Europe without guaranteed service in prisons. I can't. It is crucial and necessary that we make progress there and move in the right direction. That is an important point. And finally, we will continue to look objectively at the recruitment situation for staff. I note - and the minister will say a little more in a few moments - that very strong but unfortunately not yet validated proposals have been made on Friday. We will analyse this recruitment situation by looking at managers, their occupancy rates and the situation of absenteeism in some prisons in order to determine a preventive strategy to combat absenteeism in them. In conclusion, we take the situation seriously and will continue to act in the coming hours and days. Our hand is and remains tense and open for dialogue with all actors. Everyone has to take responsibility. I call on all the players - the government is prepared to do so in any case - to show a sense of responsibility and to return as soon as possible to the path of dialogue and work in prisons in order to respect the rights of prisoners and to give our country a dignified prison strategy at the heart of Europe, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u29	Colleagues, time is not controversial. I'll give it up. I'm not going to compare, I'm not going to communitize; I just want to try to give some facts. At the presentation of the Justice Plan in March 2015, I proposed two main axes for our prison system. The first was the fight against overpopulation. Those who attend the Justice Committee, those who are members of the Justice Committee, know that in 2015 we were able to repatriate 1 000 illegal, 1 000 foreigners without a residence permit. Those who are part of this commission also know that we have been able to export from our prisons 350 internees to psychiatric institutions which, it is true, Mrs Onkelinx and I know that you will react, had already been planned but not in long stay. We have already planned three. Antwerp will open at the end of the year. We have, together with the Communities and with the Ministers Madrane and Vandeurzen, tried to move forward in the electronic surveillance policy. The sanction became autonomous on 1 May as the probation itself. And last but not least, I have pursued a policy against unjustified pre-trial detention. It's not easy. We all know that. I have even postponed certain measures until the discussions on the "pot-pourri V" project - because it is the fifth - so that, among other things, pre-trial detention can be discussed. Secondly, I would like to receive lessons on social consultation because it is an exercise, we all know, intense, complicated and can be remunerative if we are lucky. Since the first day, I have been in contact with the unions in a very constructive way. We have set up seven working groups. I never hid it. I've always told Parliament. There were pension working groups and we reached a social agreement approved by the government: the pre-pension leave in 2018 will be 58 years old. This has been approved by everyone. There are not many sectors that can say the same! From the beginning, we told our prison officers and unions that we were going to look for methods to work differently. I would like to hear that there are not enough staff but I will give a single figure, without any subjectivity: the average for all of Europe, which is still a fairly civilized continent, is three prisoners for a prison officer. At home, it's 1.68! I do not communityize; I only give the number. Why? Because our institutions are outdated, because our working methods are outdated. Therefore, as part of this optimisation exercise, this attempt to "work differently", prison by prison, my agents sought with the prison directors methods to concentrate the tasks in the day, between 10 a.m. and 8 p.m. They looked for and found methods to make the occupation of positions more important. I'll make a comparison to relax you a little bit. When a team of cameras comes to four, it's a lot; when there's only one person, it's little. But on two or three, it's okay. We need to study this. Some movements can be avoided due to better equipment, for example, by installing the phone and microphones in a cell. There are too many unnecessary movements in our prisons. In some prisons, and again, I do not communityize, this has been well received and progress has been made. In others, this is not yet the case. Gentlemen, ladies, may I have your attention? It's important. I've had meetings in the last few days on three occasions. In addition, I had already visited thirteen prisons since I was a minister. Don't tell me I'm only visiting them now. You have already visited them all, no doubt, but I have already visited thirteen! I had meetings with the prison directors to talk about every element that could be improved in their prison, not to convince them, but to support them in the difficult times they are experiencing. This is working differently. I always said that a linear economy of 10% was not the goal, nowhere! Leuven Help is reduced from 100 to 98 % if the rationalized framework continues. Lantin will be reduced from 100 to 93 %. I've been to Lantin. That building dates back to 1979 and is obsolete. Do you all wonder for one second why a 1979 building could look like this in 2016. I don't know how. I was only 22 at the time. You might know. It's serious and terrible. If that's not a collective responsibility, none of us were there at the time. Therefore, do not tell me that I have not done everything to act against overpopulation! There are 11,000 inmates today. You know that in previous years, there were more than 12,000. We are now at an overpopulation of 10% relative to capacity. I promise you – and I have only been Minister of Justice for eighteen months – that by the end of the legislature this rate will have fallen sharply and we will be below 10,000. You can be sure of that. I have always kept my word so far, and you know it very well. With regard to the near future, as the Prime Minister has said, the protocol provides for... The Protocol provides for a freeze of savings for 2016. How is it better to gain the confidence of the trade unions with a view to optimization, which should be possible in all prisons, than to freeze this year's savings? This means 305 additional recruitments, on top of 100, which we had already promised in the context of terrorism, and all of which were signed off by the Finance Inspectorate and the Minister for the Budget. That people stop saying that the minister promises without him getting it. The Prime Minister and the Minister for the Budget fully support any measure we take. I spent an hour and a half this afternoon with the Minister for the Budget. As far as the flexibility premium is concerned, which is there to compensate for the loss of salary resulting from the optimisation and which amounts to EUR 4.8 for certain hours, it is completely se curized, not only for the penitentiary agents, but also, and above all, for all the servants of the prisons. For the moment, we are following the humanitarian situation as closely as possible. The police liaison unit in my office works day and night to monitor the situation. We have directors, we have prison officers who want to work, we have civil protection, the federal and local police and the army. We try to maintain the minimum level of occupation in the event of a strike in each prison. In some prisons, there are visits, showers. I know it's not very human, but I'll come back because we're all guilty. Two things are irreconcilable, as we all know: respect for human rights in the most absolute sense and respect for the right to strike in the most absolute sense. It is not possible to respect human rights in an absolute way and to respect the right to strike in an absolute manner at the same time. I guess I don't have to say that anymore. It can't be. I received a visit from the Committee against Torture on Monday morning. I was President, like all of us in the government, of the Council of Europe. I was not proud when I had to speak with the Azerbaijani Chairman of the Committee. I am not proud when I have to speak with the Ukrainian Chairman of the Committee who tells me that it is only in Albania, Minister, that this incompatibility still exists in this way. I don't say any more, but we all know that. I negotiated for 18 months. I have seen the unions before the Social Ombudsman four times. Let's try more but, on the goal to be achieved, let's not hesitate because, there, I've come to the end of what I could do because, for now, it's not feasible! It's not human. This is very difficult to manage for the Department of Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, action in the coming hours and days will be concerted action within the government, as the Prime Minister has said, and with the unions. There is always mutual respect, mutual trust. Give us the chance to do the best we can to get out of this crisis. We all want it to end as quickly as possible but with a future perspective that will ultimately improve the situation in our prisons. Our prison regime deserves the endorsement of the Council of Europe with the Masterplan 3 which the government will soon approve. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u30	Mr President, I have not heard any solution to unblock the situation that has been going on for three weeks. I say it and repeat it, you have to have the strength of your convictions because austerity is you, the disinvestment in public services, it is you, the savings imposed on justice, it is you again! You are the Prime Minister of Justice who failed to immunize his budget. It has been said since the beginning of this legislature. Before talking about other problems, prison staff, etc., the fundamental problem, Prime Minister, is the problem of the budget that we have not managed to get for justice. And behind this imposed austerity, there are faces, workers, agents, detainees, their families; there are also magistrates, clerks, lawyers who have been denouncing this situation for a long time without necessarily being socialist. Prime Minister, I am speaking to you as a person, as a Liberal, as a protector of fundamental rights I am sure you will be sensitive to this situation. I ask you to unblock the situation and to put in place the necessary means to bring dignity back into our institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u31	Mr President, Prime Minister, I listened to you very carefully. You said that you have opened a quality dialogue, that you have met with concerns, that you have made a significant progress recognized by all – I don't know by whom – and that tomorrow it will be better. Excuse me, but I don't feel like we're living the same realities! Bis repetita place, repeated things please, except that it is an affirmation which, for the moment, exacerbates me a little. I've been asking the same questions for quite a while and you're always telling me the same thing. Everything's fine. Except every day the situation gets worse. If you ever do karaoke with Mrs Marghem, I invite you to sing "Everything is fine, Madame Marquise" because that's always what you're telling me. There is the death of the grey mare, the stable that is on fire, the castle that is destroyed and the marquis has committed suicide. No, I can assure you we're not laughing! Change your disc! Because at present there is fire in prisons, fire in police stations. You're the one who lit the fire; it's up to you to turn it off! You said you visited thirteen prisons, Minister. It's not necessarily a lucky number for penitentiaries!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u32	Prime Minister, Minister, to hear you, what a woe! You are the greatest misunderstood of the earth! Finally, one government is assuming what all the others have never assumed and you are not even entitled to the recognition of those who benefit from your "broadness", very random! It will have to explain to me why, a few months ago, the first President of the Court of Cassation – the country's highest magistrate – came out of his legendary reserve to say that he had never experienced such a challenge to the judiciary by the executive, to the point of threatening the very functioning of the judiciary! He's not an extreme left agitator. For those who know him, the first president of the Court of Cassation is rather a man of great reserve and weight! You have to explain to me why high-ranking judges, from all jurisdictions, say that today justice is under threat? You will have to explain to me why, in all professional circles related to the management of prisons - doctors, psychiatrists, psychologists, social workers, prison staff - discontent is at this height as you promise them happiness, if not nirvana at once! The truth is that everyone has understood that your budgetary rigour is undermining the public service of justice and no one is mistaken about it, no justice professional can be deceived. Everything else is parlored!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u33	Prime Minister, I am speaking to you. I don't think you've measured the extent of what's happening in our prisons. Meanwhile, the Minister of Justice continues to preach the good word in the desert, trying to gather all of us together with common goals, which he is a hundred times right. But let's go back to the timeline, Prime Minister! Last Friday, the famous protocol, which you still cling to today, was refused if not by the trade unions, in any case by prison officers on the ground. Today is Thursday! You're announcing tomorrow a decision in Kern. We don't know which one! What order will it be? Budgetary, another measure, another way of organizing work? We don't know. Since Sunday noon, your Minister of Justice has been crying for help! And it is today that we hear the first words of a possible solution. So what are you waiting for? You're not aware of the urgency of what's going on in our prisons? Do you expect a tragedy, a riot, a death, a wounded? What will we do then? All of us here knew that the situation was difficult. We don't want to make a community, but I've heard a lot of stakeholders do it! Prime Minister, over the past ten years, the Ministers of Justice have been Dutch-speaking. Where have the largest investments been made in Kingdom prisons? Where are prisons maintained with the highest budgets? North of the country! Perhaps that is why a new organization has been set up. This is not the case in prisons in the South and is not the case in prisons in the capital. Investments have not been made and are unlikely to do what is possible elsewhere. Don't make it a community business or it's because there are people who have ulterior thoughts in your government, and we know them well!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u34	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister of Justice, you have not answered my questions. It's okay, maybe your priorities are different, and I can understand that. Minister, we are incarcerated in our country for drug trafficking while inside prisons it is moving freely. This is a beautiful image for Belgium, perhaps like that of Albania!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u35	Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, there has often been talk here of minimum services. I would like to say two things about this. One, that will never solve the problem. It's not a miracle cure. The government is actually reaping what it has sown today. It has grown a broad and persistent front against the government's austerity. That is one of the biggest problems today. Two, the humanitarian drama scenes are also asking for an answer. A minimum presence will therefore have to be considered to provide a response to the humanitarian situation. However, it will not be a miracle solution. We must also look further and talk about a kind of maximum service or maximum effort to arm the prisoners who will ever be released, for 95% will ever be released, as best they can for their re-entry into society. We will also have to invest in this. I am therefore pleased that we will be able to hold the debate on a policy of detention of the future. That is what this is all about. Only in this way will we be able to tackle the problems we face today. Prime Minister, it is time for our country finally to be properly governed. We are prepared to hold the full debate on this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u36	Prime Minister, Minister, we are confident that the government agreement will be implemented and that the minimum service will be provided. As far as we're concerned, preferably as soon as possible. For our group, human rights do prevail over the right to strike. Moreover, I have read today that the trade unions want to go to extremes, despite the outstretched hand, despite the extra jobs promised, despite the premiums. I have also read, by mouth of Di Rupo, that the PS will support them, and that on the hood of the prisoners and their families. We're not gonna stand for that. For that party I have the following message: this is not a new situation. The savings you're making have already started under Di Rupo. Think, for example, of the justice houses that were transferred without a budget. Meanwhile, it is the current government that has tackled the overpopulation and reduced it by 10%. I have also heard that absenteeism will be examined. That is important, ladies and gentlemen. The figures are in the media: 901 guards at 7 000 missing a day. That can count. However, there is another figure, that of the syndical leave. I will conclude with that. That's doubled in six years. In 2009 about 27 people a day were absent on syndical leave, in 2011 50 people and today 58 people are absent for syndical reasons. In other words, the union itself organises the under-employment on the work floor which it raises and which it stops today. Let's take a look at that, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u37	Minister, your objective at the end of this legislature is to have less than 10 000 prisoners. The end justifies the means, so there will be more ankle ties, more alternative punishments and less effective punishments. The objective should be a firm policy of persecution and a strict implementation policy. That means effective punishment and serving those sentences. Look at the Netherlands, it can be done there. A strict implementation policy, by putting effective penalties into practice, reduces the number of criminals and thus also the number of detainees. This way you can also solve your problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u38	Prime Minister, your logic is a little out of my mind. On the one hand, you share our view that past disinvestments had led to a terrible situation in prisons. On the other hand, you conclude that more austerity is needed. If we've disinvested before, you should logically reinvest to solve the problems. You'd have to know! Today, the Association of Judges makes it clear: the judiciary is dying. [[The Court of Justice]] Power is dying. They're magistrates who say so, and they're not all at the PTB yet! I'm telling you. These magistrates are now making it clear that this public service is no longer guaranteed. The Justice Public Service can no longer be guaranteed today. And what does the executive do today? We don't give a shit. When it comes to the Community, about Merksplas today, in Antwerp, what is happening? Problems in prisons, is that also Community? You're afraid to see what's happening in front of your eyes. We put all these problems away in prisons, we don't put any more money in them. Well, one day, that's gonna be big trouble for our community. Today it is time for radical decisions to be taken to return to the Public Service Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u39	Mr President, Minister, I would like to repeat that, from decades ago, the situation and shortcomings and displeasure of the past are not resolved with a fingernip and not in 14 days either. However, this government has already taken steps, as the Minister has just said, and the Prime Minister has also referred to them. They are major, important steps in creating additional places, in the renovation of prisons and in reducing the prison population. We also heard you say, Minister, that you are continuing on that slope, despite the difficulties that arise, for example in the construction of prisons, and despite the frustrations and oppositions from various local authorities, which the federal government faces. And you will have our full support for that. At the same time, I call on the strikers not to put further pressure on their colleagues who are still working, the police, civil protection and the military. They're trying to keep the situation a little more humane. I would therefore like to call on the striking guards to get back to work, to assume their responsibilities in function of decent and workable prisons. Just as dignified and workable go together, we also work and talk together. The striking guards can go back to work and continue the dialogue at the same time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u40	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, our entire group supports you in the fundamental approach to the problems. We're not asking you to be harsh. We all know that patience is a fine virtue. However, if human lives are at stake, we ask you to guarantee the service. We therefore ask you to decide now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u41	Prime Minister, thank you for your clear, accurate, and unthinkable answers. All the answers that were to be answered were indeed given. It's hard to talk when you have things to say and others don't want to hear them! I note that your government is that of decreasing prison overcrowding. The figures are here: it has fallen significantly. That must be recalled. Thirdly, I also note your willingness to establish a minimum service in consultation with the actors on the ground, because there is no solution "there is only one", but we need to talk to the actors who are really on the ground. There must be a great deal of respect for those who are running prisons, the army, the police and civil protection today. They're people who are here, volunteers. Directorates and staff who are currently in prison in difficult situations. They must also be thanked.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u42	Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, I thank you in the first instance for your answers and certainly Minister None for his detailed explanation of all the efforts made over the last few months. However, I would like to point out to you that you have actually done nothing but fight against symptoms. Why? Since 2015, for two years now, you have made a linear saving, the first in years, on the prison budget. With a linear saving without a detailed process and a detailed consultation, one is confronted with resistance and one does not gain confidence either from the public or from the people who have to work in prisons. Prime Minister, I call on you and your ministers to carry out the reforms seriously, in consultation with all actors, with all partners, before further blind savings. Only then can a good solution be found.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u43	Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, thank you for your answers. I have noted your initiatives concerning the establishment of a task force, the sense of responsibility that you have stressed, the fight against prison overcrowding, all the initiatives that you will take to re-establish the dialogue. I have no doubt about your goodwill on certain points. But let's be serious! This problem, this crisis that we all face, is a budgetary issue. Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, I urge you to have the courage and political will to put more money on the table! Please get out of this deadly austerity! This is the only lasting solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u44	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, the principle of the same pay for the same work in the same place, whatever the origin of the worker, is obviously a good principle. At the same time, European Commissioner Marianne Thyssen has just received a yellow card from ten Member States of the European Union. With this yellow card, it is clearly this principle that is being breached, with the result of cheap labour coming from abroad that both penalizes our workers by taking up their jobs but also penalises, with unfair competition, our companies for the benefit of these companies. This yellow card is obviously desolating. Does that surprise you? I don't! It seems to me that the decision of these ten members of the European Union has been driven by divergent economic interests. As a result of the races, everything is blocked. I imagine you will answer here that the European Commissioner will amend her text and try to reach an agreement with these other countries. In short, of course, it will go backwards. But rather than backtracking and waiting, Belgium, Minister, has every opportunity to move forward quickly, since two judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union in 2015 have clearly established and given all power to Belgium and the Member States to legislate so that the principle of equal work, equal pay, is applied and excludes those who do not apply it from any public procurement. We have already discussed it several times with your majority or with some of your ministers: bills, amendments. Each time, it has been dismissed by saying that we will see all this with Europe. We can't wait. We have the power to do so. The Court of Justice of the European Union gives us the capacity to do so. Minister, yes or no, will we activate all these levers so that we can apply this principle of equal pay for equal work, regardless of the origin of the worker.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u45	Mr President, Mrs Fonck, I regret that eleven Member States prefer to oppose the proposed adaptation of the directive on the posting of workers to a substantive debate. You mentioned that on Tuesday they had sent the three institutions a request for the implementation of the yellow card procedure. To be clear, this procedure does not suspend consideration of the project. Having said that, I call for a rapid examination of the draft directive, which is a first step in the urgent fight against social dumping. As you know, this text proposes solutions: the definition of the remuneration a posted worker must receive, the maximum length of the posting procedure and, finally, the application of the directive to cross-border intermediate workers. You also know that this solution will allow us to partially address the existing problems: unfair competition between companies and the social protection of posted workers. Ladies and gentlemen, for the record, we are not against mobile workers in Europe. However, Mrs Fonck has also underlined this in a way that ensures equal pay for the same work in the same place. Next week, at an informal ministerial meeting in Vienna, I will strongly support that principle. My new colleague, Secretary of State De Backer, is already working very actively on the issue of social dumping. We remain strongly committed, as well as my fellow Secretary of State in particular, to working on a plan against social dumping. At the most recent budgetary control it was agreed to implement that plan as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u46	Minister, in essence, what is a yellow card procedure? It is the European Commission that considers that Member States' prerogatives are being infringed. Is that right? That's right. Then let's have a word with them! Take them at the word and since they consider it a competence of the Member States, then let us assume our responsibilities and take action in the Member States! I'll say it again here. Today there is every possibility of being much more incisive, of being much more effective, of being able to exclude from public contracts all those who do not apply this principle of equal pay for equal work. Every month, in the construction sector, in the transport sector, in the cleaning sector, thousands of jobs disappear. The federations have recalled this very recently. This afternoon, we have a bill from a wide range of government members on public procurement. There is already an opportunity to include an additional device. I am going to put it again this afternoon as an amendment. I cannot believe that with this yellow card at the level of the Member States of the European Union, this majority is not at last taking the measure and is not acting on the levers that are at our disposal! We'll see about it this afternoon. Chiche, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u47	Minister, I have been told that you were a gifted tutor as a student. He who teaches tutoring shares his knowledge. We know many examples of this and we are also pleased that people in our society still want to share much with each other. In the new economy, therefore, the collaborative economy is becoming very hip. In the old days, you probably needed to know your pupils and have them close to you. Today they can also be recruited in a different way and digital applications give them new forms of collaborative economy. So the sharing economy is booming business and we are very pleased with that. It makes us even more happy that you are now giving the sharing economy a formal place. You have undoubtedly organized these lessons administratively and accountingly correctly, but let us be honest, every now and then something happens in black every now and then throughout the informal circuit. Instead of pushing that information out of our society, when we can use it in this way, you are now giving it a legal certainty and a good framework. We are very happy with that. A piece of black makes you white and you give many people a stepping stone to entrepreneurship, because that way they taste what it means to be able to offer a service or something else to someone else, who attaches a certain value to it and does something about it. So we are very pleased with the initiative, but perhaps you can tell us when it will come into force and how it will take shape.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u48	Minister, a few months ago I called on your colleague, Minister Van Overtveldt, to create a transparent and unambiguous fiscal framework for various initiatives in the collaborative economy. Minister Van Overtveldt then said that the government would take an initiative. That is what has happened in the context of budgetary control. Today we hear that you are preparing a draft to introduce a special regime for initiatives in the collaborative economy. Initiatives between individuals that can generate profits would be taxed at a uniform and effective rate of 10%, if the yield is less than EUR 5 000. We, too, call for a clear fiscal and social framework for collaborative economic initiatives. These initiatives deserve every opportunity. We have to embrace them and give them support to grow. Of course, we also see initiatives such as Uber, which have already become highly commercialised. This raises the demand for a level playing field for these collaborative economic initiatives, if they are to be referred to as "the regular economy' and "the regular economy'. We have a number of concerns, which I would like to present to you today. They were also expressed by a number of stakeholders. First of all, are all services of platform initiatives covered by the special scheme? After all, it serves no purpose to introduce a very clear and transparent regime if not all initiatives are included. In that case, exceptions to an exception will be made according to the initiatives. I have a second concern. The new regime would leave a reasonable choice as to the use of resources to implement initiatives and provide services. For example, there would be room to use a company car for Uber services. That raises questions. Finally, there are also questions about the impact of that special regime on the social status of self-employed workers, in particular self-employed persons in secondary employment. I'm also looking at Minister Borsus. I can imagine that he is concerned about the difference between, on the one hand, the special regime for the collaborative economy and, on the other hand, the self-employed who have to pay social contributions, even in the case of income below EUR 2 500. Initiatives in the collaborative economy could be exempted from this. So the question is whether you will take into account the concerns and uncertainties? What is the further timetable for the introduction of this particular regime?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u49	Mr. Chair, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, as has been said, the collaborative economy sector is evolving. We can even talk about boom. More and more citizens use it, directly through these different online platforms, in order to exchange all types of services. We talked about cooking, transportation, occasional accommodation or gardening. In this sector, everyone has the opportunity to become an emerging entrepreneur and thus actively participate in the creation of economic wealth, which is important in a country like ours. Unfortunately, until now, this sector of the future has been in a grey area, with tax rules that are not always very clear, unclear and sometimes even unfavourable to innovation. However, the government, and I welcome it, has been working for several weeks, particularly under your leadership, to create a specific tax framework for this sector. You know my commitment to this sector of the collaborative economy. I asked you last February in plenary for some information on this project. I will ask you questions about this desire to encourage entrepreneurship and the development of micro-enterprises while imposing, and I think it is also important, legitimate limits in order to avoid promoting unfair competition with more traditional sectors of the economy. I think here too, it's important to have a balance. According to the latest information, a preliminary draft will be presented tomorrow. It would appear that it provides for a threshold of EUR 5 000, below which a 10% tax would be applied, and that the tax rates would then gradually increase up to 50%. Can you confirm that? I also believe that certain sectors would escape this tax framework. Can you tell us which ones? I believe that Airbnb in particular would not be affected by this legal framework. Can you tell us, if any, why? Finally, have there been any consultations, and what is the status of these consultations, with the economy in general and the collaborative economy in particular? The last question, concerning timing, has already been asked by my colleagues. When do you expect this tax framework to come into effect?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u50	Deputy Prime Minister, as ecologists, the collaborative economy represents a real opportunity for us, whether in terms of consumption, because we know that so we will use more than buy and become owner, in terms of saving our resources – the collaborative economy allows us to put the same objects in the circuit several times and therefore proposes a more reasoned use of our resources – and, finally, in terms of more collective or collaborative management as its name suggests. I am referring here to the distribution of earnings within the same community or to the collective management of common assets or common resources. This new way of doing business has the potential to revolutionize our ways of consuming, undertaking and living in society. That being said, it is also true that projects linked to, or claimed to be, the collaborative economy are extremely broad. It's a very diverse palette. In our view, the wild practices of a Uber have nothing to do with exchanges between individuals on carpooling platforms. For us, this collaborative economy must come within a legal framework and the public authorities must tackle it in two parts. The first is regulation, and this is the one you are attacking today, and the second is support and support for interesting initiatives. Today, you are proposing that we attack this matter solely from the point of view of taxation, which is quite remarkable for a liberal: you start with the tax side, but why not? This is important because it is a grey area. We agree that all collaborative platforms must contribute to society through normal taxation. On the other hand, what is missing is something that I will come back to in the course of the questions that I will be addressing in a moment. This is the social aspect, that of labour law, social security and social security. The problem arises fundamentally in the new collaborative modes. You tell us that benefits of up to EUR 5 000 per year will have a real tax rate of 10%, only for natural persons, and that the levies will be automated via the various platforms. This leads me to ask you the following series of questions. Will the rate be the same for all types of activities? We know the palette is very diverse. Is there not a risk of discrimination between natural persons who have a complementary activity taxed at 33% and natural persons who have collaborative economic activities on the side that will be taxed at 10%? There are already rules obtained by collaborative platforms. Does this call into question these rulings? The very last question is a proposal that I would like to share with you. At the government level, at the federal government level, will you initiate and support collaborative projects? I am thinking, for example, of putting all of the government's vehicles on collaborative platforms so that we can use them all. This is done at the communal level. I would like your opinion on these types of projects and I encourage you to support them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u51	Mr President, the Council of Ministers of 29 April endorsed at first reading a legal and social framework for the collaborative economy. There are many other factors involved, the regulation of which often depends on the regions, and on which we have no influence. Mrs Ceysen, as you say, today a very large part of that sharing economy, of that occasional economy, is actually completely in the grey zone. A lot of people would like nothing more than clarity, not to be in a situation of illegality. In my view, taxation should be transparent, simple and administrative as possible. That's what we do. We propose that all activities carried out through electronic platforms be imposed on the source with a 10% levy. It's 20% and 50% of the cost, but in fact it's 10% with a maximum of 5,000 euros. Why the ceiling of EUR 5 000? We want to make a very clear distinction between occasional and professional activities. We want to give oxygen to people who have occasional activities. This can often be a stepping stone to entrepreneurship. Maybe these people get the taste and they become almost professionals. If we go above EUR 5 000, we will, of course, ask that we become self-employed. There will then be no exemption from company number and social contributions will also have to be paid. As far as the other revenue is concerned, I want to be very clear. That's what we're talking about here. For example: making a room available provides a return from a real estate income source, which is already taxed through the cadastral income. This is not covered by various revenues. That is where the framework is already relatively clear today. Before the date of entry we aim in principle at 1 July 2016. As far as the use of commercial vehicles and the like is concerned, I hardly know of any situations where an employee has a company car at his disposal without the contract of employment stating that that car should not be used for any other economic activity. I do not think that question really applies. I would like to be very clear about the potential abuse and competition with the self-employed in the secondary sector. We have agreed that we will follow this very closely. We will examine carefully whether there is any possibility of using it that is not intended. It is not intended to make life difficult for the self-employed. This is about occasional activities. Today, these occasional activities are often in a grey zone, but we want to make an effort to notify them. What we are doing is creating a simple system, with a withholding tax, liberating, without any administration, completely immune to fraud. In my view, this is the direction in which taxation should go. A simple taxation, which is in line with the essence of the collaborative economy. The essence of the collaborative economy is that it is user-friendly and simple, that it is at the service of the citizens and of those who want to work. In my view, more elements of our taxation should go that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u52	Thank you, Minister. I have very little to add to this, except that it gives you a new meaning to the famous KISS principle: keep it simple and smart.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You say that a distinction should be made between various revenues, on the one hand, and real estate rentals, on the other. If our starting point is to keep things as simple as possible, with which I agree, the system still needs to be revised, because some real estate rentals are also valued in various income. There remains therefore a different income tax, even after certain real estate rentals, which has nothing to do with professional income. I think that needs to be looked at again. For me too, simplicity and transparency are the absolute guiding principles and we must act in this way. I would also like to see an evaluation of this system and the special regime, in particular of its impact on the social status of the self-employed and especially on the limit for the self-employed in the secondary sector. In this respect, abuse is to be expected, and it cannot be the intention to open up new doors in the fight against social fraud. I would therefore like to draw the necessary attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u54	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. You have spoken of grey areas on several occasions and your desire for transparency. I believe that it is indeed important to clarify the tax rules, as well as legal ones, in this sector, which is a sector of the future, and to do so in a balanced way, that is, without discouraging those who wish to enter into this innovative sector, but also without arriving at a situation of unfair competition with other sectors. I am pleased that the government is actively working on this with concrete and quantified advances like those you mentioned. We, the Liberals, will remain attentive to the development of this issue, which is both a promising and a job-creating issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u55	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. Three points need to be stressed. Firstly, the importance of the social aspect: you have vaguely answered it by referring the question to the Regions. I think it is crucial, probably more crucial than taxation. We have recently seen a journalist who has experienced, for a month, living only on jobs from the collaborative economy. He earned 2,124 euros gross in a month, without insurance or social protection and working like crazy - overtime, evenings and weekends! Clearly, there's a problem. It is necessary for the public authorities to provide a framework of social and labour law. Secondly, as far as discrimination is concerned, some additional income taxed at 33% raises serious concerns, notably from the UCM or the national union of the self-employed! If I mow my neighbor's lawn, I'll also be taxed 33%. So what about discrimination? Thirdly, I come back to the plan to put the federal government's cars on a collaborative platform. As I feel you are passionate about the subject, I hope that you will take initiatives in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u56	Mr President, Minister, the coalition agreement contains a whole battery of measures to curb influx into incapacity for work and to promote labour integration. This was the subject of a whole chapter 1.8. The three-month reintegration plan is a very important element, but there are many others. All these measures are not there by chance, they are not there for ideological reasons, but they are because everyone working on social security knows that if measures are taken in the field of unemployment and pension systems, there is absolutely no point in taking measures in the field of incapacity for work, otherwise it will all be pointless. The government has been working for two years now and very little has happened in terms of disability. There has been a great deal of talk, there have been a lot of drafts, it has come to budget discussions, but no draft text has been adopted, let alone implemented. The plan for mandatory reintegration was a spearhead in your 2015 policy paper and also in 2016 and every budget discussion has new agreements, but very little is done in practice. Logically, we are faced with exploding figures in the long-term sick, with disastrous consequences, both for those people themselves and for the budgets of social security. Unfortunately, I have had to ask this question a few times in plenary and in committee. After this week's figures, I'm going to ask them with a little more urgency and also with a little more precision. When will the royal decision on the reintegration plan finally be published, because it has been going on for a very long time? Have implementation preparations already started with sectoral actors? When do you expect the first reintegration plan to finally be drawn up and implemented? This week, you say in the press and two weeks ago in the committee, that a system of respiratory rehabilitation will be developed in July for both employers and employees on the basis of an evaluation of those first non-binding reintegration plans. Does that mean July 2016? How can you evaluate reintegration plans that are not yet in place, let alone have been implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u57	Mr President, Minister, the number of sick has increased considerably in recent years. The number of long-term sick is also increasing. The numbers don't lie. People are obviously sitting on their ceiling of what's still possible. Madam Minister, we have heard you say that this week, and I quote: 'We cannot go on like this'. It's gonna be too expensive for society. Too expensive. I have to admit, my mouth fell open for a moment from your pronunciation. Do you ever think about the sick person? Do you ever think about the cause of the disease? It's not the sick person's fault that he or she is sick. The limit has just been reached. It's up for most people. Ladies and gentlemen, workable work by the current government may be forgotten. Work longer, cut career breaks, tighten runways: that's what the current government is doing. Madam Minister, that is also the main cause of the rise in the number of sick. Now you are announcing reintegration projects. That means you want to get the sick person back to work. I would like to know how you intend to do that. You have already mentioned sanctions, even financial sanctions. Madam Secretary, I would like to know very clearly from you the following. Will the measures you wish to take be based on the well-being of the sick or will you punish them by making savings on their backs?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u58	Madam Minister, this week the figures of the RIZIV report have been published. It appears that at the end of last year 370 004 people in our country were long-term ill. That's one in ten employees or self-employed. What society do we live in when one in ten people are simply long-term ill, milked out, tired of working! How can that be! Plus 64 % at ten years! What's going on in our society? What policy do we apply when 64% more people call on long-term sick leave? Last year: plus 8 %, while the average was 5 to 6 %. Two percent more! There is a quantitative increase in the number of people on long-term sick leave. Let us ask why this is so much increased and looking for the causes. There is a report from Securex, the 2013 National Health Survey, which states that the problem is clear: chronic stress. What does the RIZIV report say? The main cause is burn-out and depression. One of the reasons is the measure taken by the government which requires people to continue working up to 67 years. They've been working tired. We are one of the most productive economies in the world and people have been working tired, people have been sick for a long time. What does this government do? She's starting to piss people off. Until last year, we could still take up time credits. Now, no more time credits! They are tired and what does the government do? It takes away all the measures that allow people to blow out a little bit. People then become ill for a long time and the Minister thinks it is too expensive. What do we want from these people now? What do we expect from these people now? Madam Secretary, it is time we took urgent action. You know that with our doctors of Medicine for the People we are often among the people and that we have conducted studies that show that 75% of our patients between 55 and 65 years of age are tired of work. Do you agree with me that there is a link between this 64% increase and all the measures that Mr Peeters and Mr Bacquelaine are taking to make us work up to 67 years and abolish the 38 hours week so that the flexibility for even more burn-outs in our country will provide?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u59	Mr Spooren, Mrs Jiroflée, Mr Hedebouw, the figures are indeed what they are. An analysis has also been carried out by the RIZIV to see in which age groups the people fall out of and for what reasons. The general principle in our social security system is that we must ensure that benefits and money come from social security to those who really need it. So whoever's really sick has nothing to fear. However, we want to bring a more positive story for long-term ill people who still have the capacity to work, by not forcing them to go home with benefits as they do today. What is the status of the reintegration process? Mr Spooren, I understand your impatience, because if anyone is impatient, it is me. We must follow the rules and laws until further notice. The G10 agreement of 22 December 2015 led to the adoption of two Royal Decrees, one by Minister Peeters and one by me. These KBs were approved by the government in early March and are now following the statutory consultations with the NAR, with the management committees and with the High Council for Prevention. At the same time, we are working on an ICT tool for exchange between consulting doctors, controlling doctors, occupational physicians and treating doctors. In budgetary control, we have built on the same momentum and introduced the Norwegian measure. This means that questionnaires to doctors will make it clearer whether those concerned can resume work themselves or that they will no longer be able to do that work. In this way, they can be received and supervised more quickly if necessary. That's what happens after a personal conversation. We do want to respond, but we also want to include sanctions in the measures, both in the case of the long-term sick and in the case of the employers who easily remove their staff from the workplace. This will indeed require consultation with the social partners in the summer. As you know, Mr Spoorten, we will also be discussing this summer during the holiday period. There is also a need for uniformity in medical decisions with the sickness funds. The RIZIV will again carry out an evaluation on the outliers, for example on the regions where their numbers are too high, especially in the case of young people. It is not always about 55-plussers, Mr Hedebouw, because if you had read the report correctly, you would know that very young people are also being reported. The agreement of the Group of Ten states that there are still too many differences between sickness funds in the assessment of incapacity for work. Here too, every citizen in our country, wherever he or she lives, needs the same assessment criteria. The aim is to improve the quality and uniformity of medical decisions. We want to offer people a perspective on a meaningful activity. I've said that a thousand times. These are tailor-made work with the same employer or, after retraining, with another employer, or training. To this end, we will also respond to employers. It will first be examined whether the person concerned can still work with the same employer through tailor-made work, for example less heavy or less long-term work. We will also focus more on prevention, because prevention is indeed better than cure, Mr Hedebouw. If we find that one person in three is suffering from burn-out or overstressed, preventive measures must also be taken. In this sense, we have already taken initiatives. A preventive plan will also be drawn up through the disability fund for work-related diseases such as burn-out and stress. In order to achieve this policy, there is rightly a need for a great deal of consultation with the social partners and for longer-term thinking. The work is never done in our country; that must also be said. After the granting of a benefit, people are actually left to their own devices. Well, we take the cow by the horns by offering people a perspective. Those who can, we want to see full participation in our society. Mrs Temmerman, I see you shaking your head, but you should wish this had happened 15 years earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u60	Madam Secretary, I know you as a strong politician with a great deal of insight into this matter and normally with a great deal of effort. That is precisely why I am a little disappointed about the lack of progress in this dossier of the long-term sick and labour integration. I would therefore like to call on you to really push through this dossier, even though I am aware that a great deal of consultation needs to be respected. Still, I'm calling you to step up. Secondly, I understand from your explanation that you will link the response system with the implementation of the reintegration plans. I am very glad to hear that because I had understood that this would come at a later date. It is very important because everyone knows that it is also necessary to connect such a system to make it work. In addition to the reintegration plan, the N-VA will also take responsibility for this dossier itself. Today, together with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, we have adopted a draft legislative proposal on employment integration jobs. This is a new concept, a modernisation of social security law and labour law, which should make it easier for long-term patients to find their way back to the labour market. In the coming weeks, I will continue to test this concept with civil society and seek support from other political parties. It will certainly be complementary to what you intend to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u61	Madam Minister, what I read about the next budgetary control is that it is said that if the measures do not pay enough, financial sanctions can also be applied. That doesn't sound very human-oriented. That's not really looking at the sick themselves. I cannot get the impression that this government is addressing the sick rather than the cause of the diseases. Dear members of the government, provide workable work so there are fewer sick. Now that's prevention. That's what the government has to do. It's not people's fault they're sick.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u62	Madam Minister, do you really not ask questions if you receive a report stating that in 10 years time there are 64% more long-term sick? Do you really not wonder what is going on and why people in our society are becoming more and more ill? The report clearly shows that working longer is a problem. You are responsible for public health, the health of our people. More and more reports show that longer work and the abolition of time credits are making it increasingly difficult. People are tired. And what do you say? You're gonna think about how you can bully these people to get back to work after all. When those people are tired...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u63	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u64	Yeah, that's a problem. You need to get on the ground a little bit, Mrs Demir. When I talk to people, they say they're tired. Why is that? Because we are one of the most productive economies in the world. People are being squeezed to pieces. And what would the health minister, who should be the minister defending these people, say? You should tell Minister Peeters that you do not want to change the 38-hour week and to Minister Bacquelaine that it is bad for public health to work for up to 67 years. But what are you doing? You're pursuing your policy. You bully people until they get deeper into their burnout. I find that scandalous for someone who studied medicine.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u65	Mr President, Madam Minister, within our group, the issue of medical guards is an important subject. We are keen to try, with you, to move forward in this area. When you announced the freezing of the creation of the guard stations, this caused a great stir among the general practitioners directly concerned. However, in the meantime, you have said that you would re-evaluate the savings initially proposed and, above all, that all the files that would have returned to INAMI before 12 October could benefit from special conditions, including five million annual aid. In addition, another extremely important element has taken place, namely a consultation between your strategic unit and the INAMI Insurance Committee. I hear regularly in this Chamber that there is no consultation. Not only did it take place, but it provided the basis for a reorganisation of child care. We must welcome this, especially since the consistency of call number 1733 was a major concern. Clearly, agreement has also been reached at this level. While insisting on consultation, in the steps taken, Madam Minister, could you give us further information on the Memorandum of Understanding which was approved by the Insurance Committee? Do you have more information to pass on to us in relation to the freedom of doctors in the future to be able to access the various guard stations? That is a number of points that we would like to see clarified.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u66	Mr President, Mr Thiéry, as you know, in implementation of the government agreement, I am developing an integrated system of non-programmable care: cooperation between childcare, childcare and emergency services in the patient's interest for continuity of care. The "non-programmable care" task force was created within the framework of the medical-mutualist agreement at the end of last year when expenditure was frozen. Since the beginning of 2016, it has been very active. His first mission was to outline a plan of agreements between guard stations and emergency services. At the beginning of April, a protocol was drawn up after close consultation with all the actors, i.e. representatives of general practitioners and general medical wards, hospitals, emergency workers and mutualities. The plan was approved not only by the Task Force but also by the Insurance Committee and Medicomut. In the coming weeks, we will certainly inform the field. I give you the outline of the agreement plan, the subject to be addressed at least between childcare posts and emergency services: in terms of collaboration, both in terms of care organisations (triage and address) and the practical aspect of collaboration (joint use of services, premises, etc.).), the equivalence of the two actors as a starting point – no hierarchy but equivalence – but modulable in order to take account of local realities. Differences exist in rural areas. New childcare positions will now need to have a plan of agreements before they can obtain funding. Existing guard stations have until the end of 2017 to conclude the agreement plan. The task force still has a mission to pursue. It is to draw up a plan for the implementation of this plan within a period of five years. Discussions are currently under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u67	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, I thank you for your answers, which are, in the end, clear and fairly precise. You have pointed out one element which I believe is fundamental: rural areas. We know that the shortage of doctors is growing. So we were very attentive to child care. Obviously, everything is on the table and all the actors on the ground have agreed. All we have to do is put things in place. We'd have to get the music started. I think we can count on you, as an excellent conductor, to harmonize this music. By the way, we must now take a stand, in the roll-call votes, on a motion tabled by Mrs Fonck on the subject. In the end, it has no reason to be, since you are responding exactly to the four points raised by her questions and her proposals and her recommendations to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u68	This is where we end the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u69	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 11 May 2016, I propose to return the draft law amending the law of 31 January 2003 on the gradual exit from nuclear energy for industrial electricity production, Nos 1511/1 to 11, to the Committee on Industry, Science Policy, Education, the national scientific and cultural institutions, the Middle Classes and Agriculture. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 11 May 2016, I propose that you refer the draft law amending the law of 31 January 2003 on the phasing out of nuclear energy for the purposes of industrial electricity production, Nos. 1511/1 to 11, to the Committee on the Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, Middle Classes and Agriculture. Are you sure you don't mind? Thus shall be done. No observations? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u70	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: 179: Frédéric Daerden, Ahmed Laaouej, Karine Lalieux 508: Catherine Fonck 1196: Muriel Gerkens, Kristof Calvo, Gilles Vanden Burre, Meyrem Almaci, Georges Gilkinet, Stefaan Van Hecke, Anne Dedry, Benoit Hellings 1627:Catherine Fonck 1630: Muriel Gerkens, Kristof Calvo, Gilles Vanden Burre, Meyrem Almaci, Jean-Marc Nollet I propose that a single discussion be devoted to this bill and these legislative proposals. I suggest that you have a single discussion on this bill and these bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u71	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. I understand that Mr Crusnière is asking to speak because he wants to speak about a document that is not part of the report. Mr Crusnière, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u72	Mr President, as you know, this project is important and complex because it covers a wide range of topics and concerns several departments, including the Defence Department. It was on this subject that I spoke in committee. I would have liked to hear from the Minister of Defence, but Mr Borsus answered my questions. I had also asked for a supplementary note to the extent that a number of notable public procurements will have to be awarded by Defence in the coming weeks. I have received it, and I thank the minister for it, but unfortunately too late for it to be included in the report. Everyone should be able to learn about it. Therefore, I would like this note to be appended to the page of the House's website relating to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u73	That will be the case, Mr Crusnière. The reporters are Mr. Van Biesen and Mr. Daerden.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u74	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my colleague, Mr Van Biesen, who trusts me, and myself, I will give you a brief report on this bill on public procurement, which is essentially aimed at transposing the new European directives on public procurement. First of all, the procedure. At its meeting on 9 March, the Committee decided by vote not to hold hearings or to request the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs and the Court of Auditors. Nor did the commission hear the ministers responsible for public procurement, i.e. the signatories of this bill. The question of timing was also raised. Various groups expressed their astonishment at the late arrival of this project in committee. Finally, the fear of failing to comply with the deadline for transposition on 18 April was expressed. Having said that, we were able to begin the introductory presentations and, for Minister Borsus' intervention, I will confine myself to reporting on the general philosophy of the bill. The Minister recalled that this law is intended to ensure that all companies have equal access to public procurement. Beyond mentioning the need for clear procurement procedures, the bill aims to achieve several objectives: to facilitate SMEs' access to public procurement, to encourage innovation, and to achieve environmental and social objectives. These objectives are consistent with those set out in the guidelines. The Minister also wanted to refer to other key EU objectives such as the fight against dumping and the reduction of administrative burdens. Secondly, the authors of the other proposals presented them and we moved on to the general discussion and the articles. I will present you with an overview of the positions of the government, the majority and the opposition. She expressed regret at a few points. Overall, the "fight against social dumping" component is disappointing. The government chooses not to seize the historic opportunity left by the directives; for example, the law always allows the price to be used as the sole criterion. Moreover, compliance with social, labour and environmental law obligations remains voluntary; it must be made compulsory. There are also regrets about the absence of measures concerning the fraudulent use of temporary unemployment or the limitation of subcontracting. The bill should have provided for greater cooperation and human, material and legal resources for social inspection. Other groups are concerned about the administrative burden caused by the obligation to divide into lots or the lack of consultation with federated entities. Finally, with regard to defence procurement, the issue of economic returns was raised in particular in the F-16 renewal market. The arrival of the competent minister was strongly desired in order to answer this complex question. My colleague just mentioned it. The majority stressed that the draft law meets the objectives of the directive and allows the administrative burden on SMEs to be limited. She added that a fair balance had been struck between the socio-ethical aspects and the need for greater freedom and flexibility. Another stakeholder questioned the dumping discussions that were moved to another working group formed in January. As regards the Minister's explanations, he recalled the need to leave a certain freedom for contracting authorities to organise their public contracts in view of their specificities. If they want to combat dumping, the law gives them the tools to do so. The Minister indicated that he did not wish to exclude the price criterion in order to maintain the flexibility necessary to meet all the assumptions. Nevertheless, the Minister joined the opposition on several points concerning the fight against social dumping and attempted to reassure the opposition that the points raised will be settled by royal decree. He indicated that laws, decrees and subsequent plans would be devoted to the limitation of subcontracting and the fraudulent use of temporary unemployment. In addition, it should be pointed out that in total there were 88 amendments, 12 of which were tabled by the majority and 76 by the opposition, of which 40 were signed by the PS. Only amendments by the majority were accepted. It should be noted that at the second working session, the majority tabled amendments which partially joined the opposition and provided a basis for the problem of subcontracting. Finally, the text was adopted by 11 votes to 1, the PS text, with 2 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this is the brief report on this important work in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u75	For my party, the agreement and this draft are very balanced, in that often conflicting interests were reconciled. I am thinking, for example, of the threshold, where the construction sector was aiming for a lower target and other sectors wanted a higher target. Local authorities wanted to keep the maximum threshold for the simplified negotiation procedure as high as possible. The professional federations did not see fit to do so. However, there has been a broad consensus within this draft, which is a very important signal. The broad consensus could of course only be achieved through extensive consultation with all stakeholders. The first major achievement, and the great importance of this draft law, is that we will be able to make competition much better in the field of public procurement, with two effects as a result. On the one hand, SMEs will have much better and faster access to public procurement, and on the other hand, the price level will decrease for our governments. The design holds that important merit. Gold plating, for example, is kept to a minimum, for example by not including mandatory exclusion grounds in the law, but by including them under the responsibility of the contracting authority. Sufficient flexibility has been created, e.g. with the free variants, and this should be underlined in particular, and a reduced administrative burden for public administrations. There will be less bureaucracy for SMEs. The threshold for entering into the single negotiated procedure has been reduced, which will speed up the process for SMEs to find their way into public procurement. A number of important advantages relate to the means of communication. There will be an efficiency improvement, which can count, through the use of electronic means imposed in communication and extended regulation. There is a possibility of mixed contracts, which is also a major new advantage. The competition dialogue, which is currently fairly complex, will be much better and more flexible. The threshold for the scope of the Public Procurement Act is accepted for contracts under invoice, raised from EUR 8 500 to EUR 30 000, which is an important step forward. However, I have a few technical comments to make. We gave it to the Minister. Above all, I was very impressed by the fact that, in future, the royal decrees that will be issued will enable us to clarify a number of technical options. I think it is important to underline that for a moment. The use of the single European tender document entails a number of disadvantages. This form will, in turn, entail important administrative burdens. We must try to apply other options there, such as the implied declaration of honour. This existing regime could be retained in the future by royal decree. The electronic signature of tenders is not always evident either. Procedures go wrong with different regulations across different countries. It may be that the wrong person has signed the tender, because the statutes have been changed in the meantime or because people no longer know exactly who is actually authorised to sign which type of contract. A number of options can also be identified for this purpose. In our view, it should also be possible to work with the principle of rebuttable presumption whereby the person signing the contract is deemed to be able to connect the tenderer. That adjustment could be taken into account in the royal decrees. Mr President, I would like to conclude by asking the Minister to go through the royal decisions very thoroughly by the summer. It would be wise, given the capital of information in the Chamber, for the political groups to go through the royal decisions again, so that we take with us all the input to assignments and comments from the various administrations, which we are rich and which are behind our political mandates. Minister, this is a positive appeal to you, which we would like to address.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u76	Mr President, after making the report, I will now share my group's position. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill to transpose the public procurement directive represents a number of missed appointments. First of all with the calendar. It was to be transposed before 18 April, not to mention that the full transposition exercise involves the adoption or amendment of several laws or decrees: first missed appointment. Missed meetings with the ministers: neither the Secretary of State for the Fight against Social Fraud, nor the Prime Minister – let us remember that the Chancellery of the Prime Minister is currently in charge of transposing the directive – were present in committee, we deplored him. We wanted a minister or secretary of state directly responsible to be present. Missed with consultation: the Social Affairs Committee was unable to receive an opinion on this text despite its real implications for employment, social fraud and social security. In addition, hearings were refused and no opposition amendments were accepted by the government, despite their relevance. It's becoming customary. Miss yourself with the fight against social dumping and it is the one that is most unacceptable given the seriousness and urgency of the situation. Let's be objective! This transposition bill represents a step forward on several points. It makes it easier for SMEs to access public procurement; it also has the merit of making legislation clearer, more competitive and more transparent. The PS group shares its objectives. However, we do not understand why this project remains so weak when it comes to combating social dumping. We are faced with a full text of 191 articles that make as little reference as possible to implementing orders except when it comes to combating social dumping: a total lack! You cannot say here that this is Europe's fault! In addition to the Workers' Detachment Directive, which we criticise and call for in-depth change, and against which we are, at national level, relatively powerless, this time there is the Public Procurement Directive, which offers our country real opportunities. With the Workers' Detachment Directive, as Commissioner Thyssen acknowledges, we have to deal with an alternative and cheap form of paid employment. Four per cent of our workforce works as secondees. In 2015, there were more than 40,000 posted workers in construction, while the sector lost more than 20,000 jobs. This is unacceptable and undermines not only the confidence of workers and SMEs but also the financing of our social security. Fortunately, the PS has fought at European level for the Public Procurement Directive to offer real opportunities to achieve a fairer, more sustainable and fairer society. Public procurement is a key force in stimulating the economy, but also in directing it towards sustainable development, taking into account environmental, social and ethical criteria. This fight has borne fruit in Europe, once it is not customary. Indeed, under the impetus of the rapporteur, Marc Tarabella, we have been able to see that the European Union allows the Member States to adopt a law of transposition which is pioneering, progressive and which carries social progress. The directive was the culmination of very long negotiations, first with Members of the 28 Member States and then with European governments throughout the Council. It must be noted that the result achieved at European level with all these interlocutors goes beyond the minimum transposition of the Belgian Government. How can we tolerate the Michel government making the choice not to seize all the opportunities immediately? The government stressed, however, that the fight against social dumping was a priority. The government has negotiated ambitious action plans with the social partners in construction and transport. It has made a large number of announcements in this regard. The majority adopted a resolution. Yet, almost a year later, there is still nothing concrete. Many words but few deeds! Mr. Tommelein has moved on to other positions. I congratulate him. We hope that the will he has shown on this subject, even if the realizations have been rare, will be maintained. We hope that this will not be a return to square one. His successor was there earlier and the fact that he was gone is a bad sign. He is well aware of the problem, which he followed as I did at European level. We call on him to work, not in a dogmatic vision, but in partnership, in a spirit of openness, with trade unions, with employers, with the opposition, by giving the administration the means to put an end to dumping in Belgium. For the PS, combating social dumping is a real priority. For months we have been calling for concrete action. We have tabled, along with our colleagues in the Sp.a., bills. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, it is enough to always postpone the problem until later, when every day many jobs are lost! Today, the government must be consistent. Does it, yes or no, want to put an end to social dumping? I honestly don't think so, and I deeply regret it. This was even more evident at a conference on social dumping held on 22 April by the PS, sp.a., FGTB. It was a real success. I have had the opportunity to hear poignant testimony about the consequences of the dumping suffered by our workers. I have heard again in what unworthy conditions some posted workers must live under. I was touched, but also angry. How can we let that happen? It's inhuman, Mr. Minister. We have to act. Policies, workers' representatives and employers shared views on ways to combat social dumping, particularly in the context of public procurement. I repeat: the politicians, the trade unions and the employer's office in the north and south of the country, united against dumping. All these actors deplored the minimum transposition of the directives by the government. All call for European, national, regional and local measures to be taken. Indeed, each level of power must contribute to this struggle. At the local level, I took on my responsibilities by having a charter against social dumping in public procurement in Herstal. It has stained oil in many communes and Wallonia has generalized its principles. A platform to combat this scourge has also been created to monitor its implementation in practice. Once again, in this and other areas, the PS has been proactive since the beginning of the legislature. In resolutions, in bills, as in this bill, we have tabled nearly 40 amendments. We have done so with regard to the observance of social law, in order to ensure that non-compliances are punished, in the area of economic unemployment, to prohibit subcontracting when used, in terms of the limitation of the subcontracting chain, in terms of control and price criteria. In this respect, we plead that a public contract can no longer be awarded solely on the basis of price. For the construction and service markets, which are particularly affected by social dumping, we also plead that the price alone cannot be decisive. Once again, we want to be constructive here in plenary. To this end, my group will be tabling an amendment in a moment concerning the price criterion for the award of a contract. Today it is a veritable aberration, which runs counter to our principles of good administration. The public authorities and the federal authority in the first place cannot close their eyes any longer. But unfortunately, until now, it is not the choice of the government, which still allows us to have regard only for the price. We need political courage, we need to go further in this area. At our conference, all the speakers, whether employers, workers or experts, found that the dictatorship of the lowest price, of which we are victims, is the real gateway to social dumping. This dictatorship forces companies to use the worst means to win the market. Whether in the construction, guarding or cleaning sector, unfair competition has become wild. The lowest price race is killing our economy and destroying the quality of our jobs. All the actors present have converged in the same way with this observation: we must end this dictatorship. An SME boss testified in the room and explained that some practices went so far that he could no longer obtain markets, even by employing seconded labour. In spite of this, it must go further and find new ways to reduce costs. So much for quality and employment. That's what we got to today! It has to stop, Minister. In order to hope to put an end to dumping in public procurement in Belgium, all contracting authorities must play the game, all of them must be housed in the same brand. We need a federal framework. Ladies and gentlemen, and especially of the majority, today I appeal to your political conscience. Be courageous, be consistent, will you continue to tolerate that the public authorities continue to encourage social dumping or will you lay the foundation for halting this scourge? As you know, in committee, and as I have just reminded you, I have tabled almost forty amendments. Here in plenary, I will table only one. Only one aimed at putting an end to this dictatorship of the "less telling". I hope to be able to convince the majority so that together we can move towards less dumping and more social justice. So I will be very clear: my amendment is not intended to prohibit the price criterion in the award criteria; it will simply not be the only award criterion. And stop hiding behind false excuses: for supply contracts such as the purchase of standardized bics or other small supplies, the price can always be the determining factor by representing, for example, 95% of the award criteria. Simply put, for works and services contracts, which are particularly victims of dumping, the price alone will no longer be determinative, as it will not be able to account for more than 40% of the award criteria. Ladies and gentlemen, after the yellow card to Commissioner Thyssen, and my colleague spoke about it earlier and asked the Minister for Employment, the need for our country to stand firmly against social dumping is even clearer. Belgium can be the model to follow at European level today. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely hope that you will be consistent, by supporting our amendment, so that we can together abandon the dictatorship of the lowest price and really begin to fight against social dumping. Otherwise, it will be clear that this is not your real priority and we will therefore not be able to support this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u77	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I shall correct some of Mr Daerden's assertions. After weeks of intense and constructive debate, we have finally come to the bill. Of course, I am not going to list the articles but to recall the main principles and objectives of the articles. What are the main objectives? Increasing the efficiency of public procurement, achieving a better balance between the obligations and rights of all parties, facilitating access to SMEs, achieving common societal objectives, providing greater legal certainty and finally, Mr Daerden, strengthening the fight against social dumping. Increase the efficiency of public procurement by strengthening the principles of equal treatment, prohibition of discrimination and the principle of transparency. This will better guarantee the free movement of goods and services and, above all, increase equitable access to all economic operators. Achieving a better balance between the obligations and rights of everyone, for example, the fulfilment of the obligations of the right to work and social law is more general in scope than it is today. This is a significant step forward, Minister. Failure to comply with obligations distorts competition. Article 4 of the draft strengthens compliance with the obligations with regard to the treatment guaranteed to economic operators. This also applies to environmental law where non-compliance could also be considered an infringement. Economic operators who fail to comply with these obligations will be punished. Facilitating SMEs' access to public procurement mainly through batch distribution is a fundamental change. It is now recommended that contracting authorities divide contracts into lots as much as possible in order to increase competition and justify the opposite. The rule will now be "divided or explained" for markets below the European advertising threshold. To achieve common societal objectives by using the criteria for awarding the most economically advantageous tender. Awarding on the basis of the price will always be possible, but the concept is extended with the criterion of cost, i.e. the ratio between price and efficiency. As a result, the government has chosen to take responsibility without coercion and, where possible, to take other factors into account when awarding a contract. In the same spirit, Article 15 allows contracting authorities to reserve the right to participate in a specific procedure for protected workshops, training-by-work undertakings and social integration operators in order to promote effectively the integration or reintegration of certain categories of workers. The fifth objective is to provide greater legal certainty through clarifications to quasi-in house markets or procedures such as the competitive procedure with negotiation, the use of the single document for European markets, which is imposed on all operators wishing to subscribe to a market procedure, and the establishment of electronic platforms for sending and receiving tenders, which will ensure greater efficiency and transparency in future procedures and facilitate access to SMEs. All these technical aspects aim to make these economic operations safer, more efficient and more in line with economic reality. This will promote more effective allocation of public funds and help to combat corruption more effectively. This project also aims, as I said earlier, to strengthen the fight against social dumping, of which our government has made one of its priorities. In addition to the measures already taken and the commitment of about 100 people to increase controls on the ground and to deal with proven cases of fraud, the draft law on public procurement also helps to combat this dumping. The European Directive has laid down certain basic rules and granted Member States flexibility. The government has chosen not to transpose into the common legislative base the rules that should apply only to certain sectors affected by the scourge of social dumping. He prefers to work through royal decrees which will be drawn up jointly with the sectors. Discussions are progressing well, so these orders should be available quickly. As for offers and operators that violate labour law, the government has ensured that the concept of proportionality is retained. Our legal arsenal already implies that the contracting authority is obliged to reject an offer that violates labour law, a practice that remains criminally punishable – we discussed it yesterday about another text. This reason for exclusion will again be reinforced through royal decrees. So the text is not empty, Mr Daerden: we will fill it out! The same applies to operators who employ workers in an illegal situation or to the treatment of tenders with an abnormally low price because of an infringement of labour law. A working group on social dumping is preparing a text which will satisfy all parties. In relation to the limitation and approval of subcontractors, the finding was shared by all and the majority then amended the text to that effect. In view of the joint and several liability of the subcontractors, after finding that a subcontractor does not comply with its obligations in terms of payment of wages, the whole chain will be held jointly and severally liable if the collaboration does not cease within eight days. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, many lobbyists have contacted us all. They've been met. Numerous meetings have been held between the Committee on Public Procurement and the Cabinet. This project is therefore the result of a balance and the result of effective consultation. All those who wished to do so were listened to in their request. There is still a pending issue, Minister. I forgot to put it down at the committee meeting. It concerns judicial officers. In the reasoning of the bill, it is written that "the judicial officers fall within the scope of Chapter 6, but they may be excluded from it if they are appointed by a court, a court or by law to carry out specific tasks under the control of these courts, that is, in their monopolistic role relating to judicial acts", under an enforceable formula. Can you confirm this possible exemption? By thanking you, Minister, I confirm that my group and I are fully committed to the general philosophy underlying the reform of public procurement and that we will support this project after congratulating you on your excellent work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u78	My list of speakers now includes Mr Deseyn and then Mr Vanvelthoven. They obviously do not want to have the floor. Fortunately, Mrs. Gerkens is here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u79	Mr. Chair, you know that you can always count on me to criticize a government project that does not meet our objectives. Faithful to the post office. We were looking forward to this bill with great impatience. This European directive really made it possible to take ambitious steps towards the fight against social dumping, sustainable markets – with social and environmental clauses – in the ethical dimension. It allowed states to assert themselves as regulators in the face of economic actors that completely destroy and destroy the economic market. Because we are not talking about solidarity or values that take into account the environment or the fate of workers. We are talking about an economic activity which is sometimes completely undermined by practices distorting competition. Minister, you and the members of the majority are introducing this bill as a tool to combat social dumping. You have put a lot of energy to say, to present it as such. Energy is much less in the texts if it is to prevent social dumping and to give real tools to combat it. If I am so strict in my assessment, it is because you have kept the price as the only possible criterion in the head of the contracting authorities. There is the price alone, then the price-quality ratio, then the integration of more specific clauses. But the price alone is left. The Prime Minister, feeling attacked, dared to say that it is to allow administrations that want to buy a large amount of bics that they can do so by referring only to the notion of price. Is that really a valid argument? Can one dare say something like this when we are confronted with companies, especially in construction, which must close, declare themselves bankrupt, lose workers. As at 31 December 2014, there were 17,500 construction workers who lost their jobs as a result of market disruption. Can we really be content with the price, even to buy bics for all the administrations in Belgium? Again, as we know, there are criteria that can be imposed even if only of quality, if only of choice of materials, if only of proximity to avoid CO2 emissions that bring you bics that come from the bottom of the world and are produced by underpaid workers. So even for bics, keeping the price as the sole criterion is a fundamental error. Minister, when I hear the N-VA colleague who is not listening to other stakeholders on the bill, the argument he used at the outset was not social dumping. It was to encourage competition. Markets need to facilitate competition between those who will offer and respond to calls. What does it mean to promote competition? We're coming back to the one price! Promoting competition means that we will take the one that will be the cheapest and that we will be able, with the device that you have put in place, to take only that criterion. Other provisions in connection with this and with my criticisms really reinforce my analysis and make me say that it was not your objective to really combat social dumping. This was corrected but, for example, false statements made by a bidder did not even constitute a mandatory exclusion clause. It was optional. Another element that makes me also think that in the mind of the government as a whole, the goal was not to promote fair markets, is that you had even, at some point, failed to put in your text the motivation for abnormally low offers. Fortunately, the directive does not give you the freedom not to demand this motivation. The text was therefore corrected. It is really to tell you that the way in which this text was drafted, drafted and defended is at least ambiguous and that in any case it is not up to you to say that it is a tool to combat social dumping given these different elements. I, too, have met with construction actors and others in relation to the text. I know that they have also tried to change text devices and that there have been some corrections, but these have been relatively small. They too are against this unique principle of price as an argument of choice. In the face of workers they have to put into technical unemployment, they tell us that from the moment the price is the argument, they are obliged to do so. And when their workers are unemployed economically, if they want to continue to run their business, they are obliged to use displaced workers that will cost them less, otherwise they will have to lay off the workers who are unemployed economically, because they cannot be paid in compliance with the legislation, the wage agreed at sectoral level and at the same time pay the social contributions and the related obligations. Minister, you have not taken the opportunity to put in this tool the possibility of saying that when you respond to a call for tenders, you will have to take into account the price with the guarantees. These guarantees concern the workers used, the wage, the observance of environmental and ethical clauses. In addition to this dimension, in the discussions we have had in committee, I have also tried to draw your attention to facilitating access to public procurement for SMEs and artisans. In order to do this, I have tabled amendments and I am resubmitting them. I also repeat the amendment which excludes price as the sole criterion. I have also tabled two other amendments. I have resubmitted an amendment on the division of contracts into lots as a principle by allowing exemptions to these divisions where justified. I have also tabled an amendment on turnover. It is important to limit the requirements to the level of turnover required by bidders in relation to the value and risk incurred in the financial year and in response to a call for tenders. There are clearly excesses today, which make it always the same big companies that win some markets. And we know that when these big companies get the market, they start outsourcing. You have refused, and the majority has refused, to take these amendments into account. However, the Council of State had given a view that the required financial security should be reasonable, not more than twice the cost of the contract. On the other hand, in construction, there are processes relating to the approval of enterprises. For example, when they want to bid on public contracts, turnover is linked to the amounts of the contracts they can meet. This means that, too, they have put in place tools that limit turnover. So why not state in the law that the requirements must be reasonable and not prevent access by certain actors?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u80	The approvals are in the other direction. They provide for the amounts of turnover and other minimum criteria to have the guarantee of organisational area, staff and financial sufficient to take on such a level of market. It's the other way around.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u81	It's written in the other direction, but it's the same. If we say: for a market of the same amount, a market of 1 million, the tenderer must have a turnover of at least 3 or 4 million, we impose conditions which are not assumed by a whole series of actors. If we limit it to the maximum double, or if we value and strengthen the recourse, as in the accreditation system, by generalizing it to all contracts, then the policy would impose rules limiting the excesses existing in calls to bidders. In your bill, you have not limited those requirements that some may have. So you allow some big players to always get the markets and you prevent SMEs and artisans from gaining access to them. In the same way, we would have liked to see in the project the division by lots and the authorization that, in order to meet a call for tenders, several artisans or SMEs associate and value in a solidarity and collective way their turnover in order to meet the requirements, to enable them to carry out directly contracts, works by avoiding the use of subcontracting. You are announcing a royal order that will limit the number of subcontractors to two. The construction actors I recently met told me that I should be reassured on this point and that the royal decree was really going to take place. In relation to all these orders that you have announced to us, Minister, I would like you to be able to tell us, today in plenary, where you are in concrete terms in each of the aspects that had to be met. In this regard, it cannot be accepted that such a bill is the result of a compromise. It's not right. When we are in the fight against social dumping, cheating, underpayment of workers, we need strong policies that really ensure public authority in the face of economic actors who do not respect the rules and which undermine our economic activity and, therefore, our social solidarity and the fate of many employed or self-employed workers and their families. I really hope that the majority will resume and that at least the amendment that deletes – we are many who have tabled such an amendment – the single recourse to the price will be accepted and that this price will be accompanied by requirements. The degree of requirement is obviously dependent on the objectives pursued by the contracting authorities, but you must mark up, Minister. In committee, I abstained because, at the last moment, you came with amendments that I had not had the opportunity to read because I had other committee meetings. Having reviewed the entire text, considered the non-responses we had, re-coordinated the sector and re-identified all the risks, Minister, Ecolo-Groen can only oppose this bill, if only because there is this price as the sole criterion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u82	Mr President, Minister, this bill contains a number of elements that are positive and that stem exclusively from the European directive. I am thinking of clarifying existing rules, facilitating SMEs' access to public procurement, facilitating SMEs' access to in house contracts, and at the end of the uncertainty about cooperation between public authorities. We have come to committee with proposals to change the text on a whole series of subjects. I welcome the openness shown by the majority, for example on the maintenance of the notions of split markets and the extension clause, the retention of the notions of alternatives and options, since this was not provided for in the original bill. We have tabled these amendments and the majority have joined us, so much the better. I have also asked you a lot about the importance of preserving the health actors from the public procurement mechanism. There has been a great deal of contact with stakeholders in the sector during the government's work. Clearly, the government did not want to hear. We have dealt with this debate in committee. I introduced a bill to that effect more than a year ago. I have tabled amendments so that it can be included in this bill because it is an important issue. In the legislation that you tabled, by not excluding health professionals from the scope of public procurement, you considered that all commitments of self-employed health professionals had to go through a public procurement. And this leads indirectly to a commodification of the health sector. The criteria for the recruitment of a doctor, a physiotherapist, and possibly a nurse - most of whom are employed - of these health actors in a hospital institution are, for the vast majority, not objectivable and are based on a whole series of elements as important as the human aspect, the relationship and sense of contact with the patient, the multidisciplinary approach with the healthcare teams, all important elements. The rigidity and timeliness of tendering procedures, the possibilities of recourse are totally inadequate for the engagement of caregivers and the risk of leaving primary posts vacant for several months at the expense of patients, crippling hospitals and care facilities. Submitting the commitment of health professionals to the law on public procurement – and that would be the worst of the worst – could increase the use of foreign doctors to the detriment of our young caregivers and even when our caregivers have a clearly higher level of quality of training. It was therefore, it seems to me, clear to exclude carers, in particular self-employed people, since employees are explicitly included since they have a contract of employment. It was important to exclude them to ensure continuity and quality of patient care. I would have preferred it to be sunk in the law, because I am still afraid of a risk of falling back in a second phase. However, we were able to agree on a joint amendment with the King's authority to define exactly the scope of the concept of employment contract, and therefore explicitly to provide that self-employed caregivers engaged in a care structure are and are part of the concept of employment contract, which would therefore exclude them from this law on public contracts. Minister, since then, a few weeks have passed. I would like to know the status of work on this royal decree. I pleaded in committee that it should be carried out in consultation with the actors on the ground. I will, of course, be overly vigilant about the content of the royal decree announced and I expect – I can understand that the order is not necessarily finalized – to hear you confirm here the commitment that I was able to obtain in committee. It's a major issue and I won't let go. The issue is too important for caregivers, care structures and, primarily, for patients. In addition to the positive elements that I have put forward constructively, two questions remain as well as a black spot. First, the draft law raises the threshold below which a contract can be concluded by simple invoice accepted with reduced procedures from €8,500 to €30,000. With regard to this ceiling increase, we have asked the Court of Auditors for an opinion to clarify the work in committee. Our request was rejected. We therefore remain interrogative in this respect. The future will tell us who was right and especially, if difficulties arise with this ceiling increase. Secondly, with respect to corporate reviewers - we have worked with Mr.Dispa on this bill - we would like to know whether or not we can consider exempting financial statement certification services, the performance of which is set aside by law or, under it, by corporate reviewers. You said that this directive did not allow this exemption. However, I have had several contacts with the Institute of Corporate Reviewers. He drew my attention to the fact that other Member States had provided for an exemption for certifications of financial statements, the performance of which is reserved, under the law, for business reviewers. A lack of consistent treatment would be unacceptable, minister. This would be a double standard, which would obviously be unacceptable. We are not going to repeat today the amendment that Benoît Dispa and I tabled. However, I would like you to ask your department to examine the treatment of the services of business reviewers in the other Member States. Have a European benchmarking carried out. If it demonstrates that the information of the Institute of Enterprise Reviewers is correct and that an imbalance exists with some Member States in the form of a derogation from public contracts, I believe that this aspect of the problem should be reconsidered. Then you should figure it out. We have already had this discussion, but I did not have that information yet. I would also like you to make a commitment not to bring this matter to a definitive conclusion. This seems to me a minimum, given the way in which some Member States provide for such an exemption. Finally, the news of the last twenty-four hours has only strengthened our reservations about this bill - isn't it, Mr.Dallemagne? We were already concerned about the sluggishness of this bill with regard to the levers that this legislation could give our country in terms of combating social dumping. If I say this, it is obviously – as I explained earlier to the Minister of Employment Kris Peeters – following the yellow card sent by ten Member States to the project of European Commissioner Marianne Thyssen. Let's call a cat a cat! A yellow card is ten countries that consider that the European Commission is encroaching on their state prerogatives. Let us remember the signal sent by these countries. They say to the other Member States: "Do not worry at home if you want to apply this principle of the same pay for the same work, in the same place, regardless of the origin of the worker." This fundamental principle is now being breached. For example, low-cost sectors of foreign labour are being created, which clearly compete unfairly, penalise Belgian workers by causing job losses, as well as Belgian employers who are at a disadvantage compared to employers who, from abroad, offer this cheap workforce. You know as well as I do. Whole sectors are heavily penalized, including construction, transport, cleaning – and I could mention many more examples. In committee, we proposed amendments – in fact, these were bills that I had already tabled and that we re-tabled in the form of amendments – to allow for progress in this area. We have based ourselves on two recent judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, dated February 2015 and November 2015, which determine that the award of public contracts may be subject by law to respect for a minimum wage and that the minimum wage includes vacation pay and daily and travel allowances. This makes it possible to put workers on the same footing, to prevent employers from causing unfair competition by using cheap labour in our country. In Belgian social law, the law does not set a minimum wage. It is the collective agreements concluded within the Joint Committees that determine the applicable scales or, if there is no active Joint Committee, the National Labour Council. If there is no specific scale, the worker may claim the guaranteed minimum monthly income which includes certain amounts paid during the year. In substance, today, both these judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, but also this yellow card of these ten Member States of the European Commission on Commissioner Thyssen's project, give all legitimacy and even more power. They take our responsibility if we don't. This power must be taken by Belgium and the other Member States in order to legislate, and in order for clear legal provisions to apply, without any ambiguity, this principle of "equal work, equal pay". This will clearly exclude all those who do not apply it. They must be excluded from any public procurement procedure. The majority did not manage to take an interest in these amendments. Of which act. You could not know at that time that there would be a yellow card in the European Commissioner's draft. You know that now. It's not too late. We have the opportunity to do so this afternoon. That is why we tabled these amendments again in plenary: we hope for an important step forward. Sending this decision back to later is a waste of time again and again. Is it worth recalling that, just in the construction sector, the Confederation has mentioned the loss of 17,000 jobs in recent years? Should we recall that this Confederation Construction reiterates that it fears the loss of 20,000 jobs by 2019? Is it worth recalling that eight out of ten entrepreneurs reported losing one or more markets to foreign companies in 2014? So many observations emanating from the field. They oblige us, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, to take on our responsibilities and, above all, not to step back but to move proactively, not only in speeches, nor in measures similar to measurements, which do not allow us to obtain the strongest levers to exclude those who do not comply with these rules and principles from public procurement. I therefore propose that you move forward this afternoon, through amendments to this bill. I hope you will take the trouble to seize them and not make them a missed opportunity. In the absence of new developments and given the major challenges posed by the fight against social dumping and, above all, the loss of jobs resulting from this dumping every month, we will abstain from this bill, as I say and I repeat, despite the positive progress we have made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u83	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of public procurement is an essential issue for workers today, not to mention that a debate underlies this issue of public procurement, namely the privatisation of public services. A number of previously in-house missions are outsourced, with proper conditions of service and the possibility of enforcing environmental standards. It is therefore directly linked to the question of social dumping and the model of competition imposed by the European Union and our governments over the last 30 years. In committee, I recalled, in particular through concrete examples in the cleaning or construction sector, the enormous consequences that this represented in terms of job loss and employment degradation in Belgium and in terms of the danger to trade union rights. This downward spiral concerning our jobs, wages and working conditions is seen all over the world and every day, for both Belgian and foreign workers. Basically, the problem can only be solved if this competitive logic is called into question and the Detachment of Workers Directive is revised. The demands made by workers' organisations are clear, with a number of key principles: equal pay for equal work. Derogation from this principle should be prohibited by law. Social contributions must be calculated in accordance with the standards in force in the host country and paid to the social security fund of the country of origin. Other principles, the prime contractor should be recognized as fully responsible for social fraud in the organisation and controls should be developed, including by trade union organisations. These red threads are the position of the PTB in relation to this project. I am going to address various points without lingering too much since the debate has already taken place in committee, but some points need to be mentioned. The first point concerns the effectiveness of the sanctions provided for in the event of non-compliance. In the current bill, penalties and exclusions from public procurement are provided for, but are optional and not mandatory in many cases. This is rather paradoxical since it is contrary to the statement of principle in the explanatory memorandum, which states, I quote: "compliance with obligations in the fields of environmental, social and labour law is established as a general principle in the award of public contracts". We therefore have a contradiction here, and this is the subject of an amendment since we are asking for the grounds for exclusion to be mandatory and not optional. Secondly, the issue of joint and several liability. This is an essential principle in the fight against social dumping since the contractor of a public contract is engaged in relation to the whole chain of its subcontractors. On the ground, it is known that the stake is essential even if it is insufficient and insufficiently controlled and applied. The 2006 Act provided for this. In the current bill, we go back and forth on this mechanism, providing that "joint and several liability no longer applies automatically." This is in fact deforned in the name of arguments of the type "it was little applied in practice, the coexistence of different regimes made the whole uncomprehensive, which reinforced legal insecurity etc. [["]] This is absurd and shows that, behind the speech, there is no real will on the part of the government to really fight against social dumping, which is the essential element of our criticism of this project. The third point I want to address quickly concerns the issue of limiting the excessive use of subcontracting. We know that this is one of the means used to thwart regulations. In this sense, we support the request of trade union organisations to create a legal instrument to prevent the use of subcontracting when all or part of the fixed staff of a company is temporarily unemployed and such staff could have carried out the outsourced task as provided for in the Group's agreement of 10 December 2015. The fourth point I would like to address is the question of the price criterion as a basis. Article 80 provides for the price as the first criterion for awarding the contract. This is the debate between the least saying and the best saying. This sums up the whole logic of the law. That's the crux of the problem. In order to lower prices, and even more so with the rules of free European competition, there is de facto pressure on wages, working conditions and all social and environmental standards. It is at the heart of this logic of competition and dumping. This is one of the things that needs to be changed in this law. Finally, alongside these elements, we find the practical question of strengthening controls, which are currently totally inadequate. The figures of Mr. Tommelein, then in charge of federal jurisdiction, have recently been read. These revealed that of the 1,415 companies targeted by the controls, 633 were not in good standing, almost one in two. Of the 4,000 monitored workers, one in three (1,409 persons) were found to have committed offences. There are 20 000 public contracts in Belgium, representing 550 000 jobs. If there is no control, all these regulations, which are insufficient, remain dead letter and we find ourselves with 50% of the companies that do not comply with them. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the PTB will vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u84	Mr President, I will be very brief and therefore not go into detail. The phenomenon of social dumping, as discussed by a number of fellow Members of this House, naturally also plays a role in the award of public contracts. Contrary to what some speakers have said, we are, in principle, fully committed to the concerns of social dumping. We are also convinced of the bad and perverse consequences of postings or posted work. It leads to immense job destruction, as has been said, and puts enormous pressure on a number of economic sectors. All good measures to combat this evil phenomenon are welcome, of course, but it is an exercise which must be done above all at the European level. Unfortunately, if we want to tackle the phenomenon of social dumping on the ground, federal legislation will not bring any relief. The demand for pay scales and the like is hardly enforceable. Cooperation with a large number of countries that send workers to this country is virtually impossible. This has been proven in the past and the figures support that statement. The problem lies, of course, in the hopelessly outdated Posting of Workers Directive, which, as it were, invites him to do social dumping. As has already been said, this needs to be tackled first and foremost at European level. The system is thus also used for public procurement in particular to attract massively cheap labour to our country, which has been working on our labour market for too long. Initially, it was intended to bring down missing expertise and know-how for short periods. Solutions contained at the European level are significantly shortening the posting period, an absolute condition for reducing postings to what they were intended for: short assignments by people with specific expertise and know-how that we do not have here. Moreover, the debate on the payment of social security contributions may also take place in the long term if we are to effectively combat the phenomenon of social dumping. It seems pointless to provide for additional federal legislation if it does not have an impact on the substance of the problem. In addition, we are at risk of being turned on by Europe for federal legislation that is divergent from the European directive. I doubt the statement of the yellow card that was made here. That is to say, draw your plan into your own country and the legitimacy now belongs to the Member State, to do what it has to do. I don't think that's entirely true.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u85	Mr President, I just wanted to say that I fully agree with our group leader and that it would be redundant to want to speak again. Accordingly, I will allow the debate to continue by leaving the floor to the other speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank you for your participation, under the care of the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, in the work on this important dossier. I also thank you for the largely positive tone of a number of interventions. We're meeting. The situation is indeed extremely delicate, I would even say critical of the consequences of social dumping. The phenomenon is important. It is expanding, affecting more and more sectors, and it is deepening in a number of sectors where it is already known with consequences in terms of jobs, in terms of loss of revenue for solidarity or in loss of revenue for the State which are considerable. This text and the measures taken by the government will mark a turning point, a fundamental reform, will give an extraordinarily strong sign to the sector both at home and abroad. This text is one of the chapters of a series of recent anti-social dumping provisions and decisions. I will not mention the other amendments, the procedures, the organisations, the provisions concerning the self-employed, the false self-employed, the associations, the organizational provisions concerning the A1 forms. But I would like to mention the recent decision to hire as many as 100 additional staff, social inspectors dedicated specifically to the fight against social dumping. In this case, we have not only adapted the texts and procedures, but have developed databases and cross-referenced them, on the initiative of the outgoing Secretary of State for the fight against dumping and social fraud. We have therefore made a complementary decision to equip ourselves with human resources because a reform that does not translate into the possibility of carrying it out would obviously be a reform that misses its objective. A few of the things you're reading, if you don't mind. First of all, with regard to the question of price, I would like to stress that we are moving dramatically towards this concept of the most economically favourable supply. I insist. The price remains a possible element. We do not exclude the possibility in certain situations of awarding a contract on the basis of the price criterion. Many examples may illustrate how relevant this provision remains. Conversely, we generalize the use of the approach through the most economically favourable offer by integrating the generalisation of this approach, organizing it and declining it. Contracting authorities, whether federal, regional, community, local or other, now have all the tools in hand to truly mark the change in this area. Secondly, with regard to the provisions relating to the elements of administrative simplification, electronic communication, innovation, in particular with this competition system, new mechanisms for competitive dialogue, I believe that we have innovated and positively. On the other hand, I believe that the increase in accepted invoices to EUR 30 000 is in line with the needs that a number of public authorities have identified and transmitted to us. I take the opportunity of this moment to say, Mr. Daerden, that many consultations have taken place. Do you know that the Inter-federal Commission on Public Procurement, in which all the representatives of the Regions are represented, met on as many as 11 occasions? Do you know that this issue of the law on public procurement has been referred to twice in a consultation committee? Of course, additional contacts are always imaginable. But in this case, I think it is incorrect to say that the dialogue was not organised, that the dialogue did not take place. I am very happy to accept the comments on the transmission of ministerial orders and on the necessary consultations to have, in this connection with parliamentarians, on the technical aspects which the ministerial orders will translate, even though we have been careful to include in the law as much as possible of the elements that we wanted to freeze in the legal text. The dictatorship of the lowest price is certainly not the case. I have mentioned this with the generalisation of the most economically favourable offer. It's not a missed date. I think this is probably one of the most important meetings, with regard to our legal arsenal, which brings us together today, ladies and gentlemen. SMEs, of course, are big winners of these provisions, which will make it necessary to justify why no choice has been made to divide the market on the basis of an estimate of EUR 135 000. At the same time, we are making great strides in the process of implementing and preparing preliminary draft decrees. With the consultations mentioned, we expect to be able to propose them as early as next summer, so that all this will be implemented as soon as possible, again in 2016. Mrs Fonck, I would really like to stress one of the keystones, one of the pillars of this text. We firmly introduce mandatory exclusion mechanisms even before the contract is awarded, as soon as there is a presumption, a probability, a reputation for breaching social, labour or environmental rules. In concrete terms, we will be forced to exclude, including those companies whose offer is inclined to conclude that there is an infringement. I invite you to review the legal provisions in terms of labour law in social or environmental terms to see how many criminally punishable behaviours are. For all these companies, the exclusion will be strict before the award of the contract. During the execution of the contract, even on a simple observation of the labour inspectorate, several immediate exclusions are also mandatory. For all others, exclusion from the contract remains possible throughout the execution of the contract. The arsenal made available to contracting authorities is extraordinarily rich. I would like to join several speakers who have indicated that of course we will need to inform and train properly. Similarly, it will be up to the regional supervisory authorities – for example, in their role as assignor of subsidised works – to indicate the use of these different devices. These criteria relate in particular to the minimum remuneration which is defined by collective agreements and established by royal decrees. Indeed, Mrs Fonck, the failure to comply with these wage standards is subject to criminal sanctions. So the tool is here. Its use is compulsory as soon as such sanctions are at stake. I welcome the efforts of our European Commissioner, Marianne Thyssen, whose struggle I know is difficult. You recalled this by referring to the yellow card procedure which some countries have just decided to activate. My message is the following. Pending the development of the secondment directive or other legal arrangements at European level, we are already trying to make all the organisational tools available to Member States in the form of information or databanks so that they can enforce existing European legislation! Let us easily consult at European level the arrangements for social security in each of the countries! Let us centralise the information so that it is accessible by all social control services in the countries! Together with my colleagues in the government, we will make a number of proposals in this respect so that, in addition to the process of developing directives, the current European legislation can be equipped with tools available to countries to enforce them. Ladies and gentlemen, there is really an implacable fact that we must share with each other today. The European directives are the same for everyone. We agree. How is it then that our country is being impacted much more widely than most of the countries around us by social dumping? The demonstration refers of course to our own decisions, to our own organisations, to our control capabilities. There is no reason why, on an equal footing with European law, our country should be so much more affected than the others. And it is strong from this observation that we decided to take the bull by the horns. As you have seen, I have advanced very strongly not only by telling you that we will propose legal texts, commitments, procedural revisions. Our objective is very simple, it is an objective in terms of results, statistics, effective reduction of social dumping in our country. I conclude with the specific questions that have been addressed to me. I have taken note and I would like to stress, Mrs Fonck, the work you have done in committee on hospital, medical and paramedical contracts. It's a case we're working on. And since we are talking about the working relationship, it is a matter which requires a great deal of finesse in its analysis in order to comply with the European directive. I confirm here that our scope, our text of course excludes hospital, para-hospital and other contracts in hospital, medical and paramedical contexts. As far as the reviewers are concerned, you are telling me that a number of countries would have considered it necessary to exclude the reviewers, or in any case certain tasks from them when they carry out tasks entrusted by law. I immediately asked our team to give us a benchmark of circumstances to see what's happening, and I'm sure I'll keep you informed. I conclude with a reply concerning the judicial officers, Mr Piedboeuf, to indicate that they are well excluded in the context of the missions that are explicitly entrusted to them by a court or by law. We refer in particular to Articles 519 §2, 4°, 6°, 8° and 519 §1, 1°. I say that in particular. Ladies and gentlemen, I would really like to thank you for this important work. I am convinced that this text must be a turning point, a turning point. I am convinced... Mr Nollet, keep your ability to wonder and fight! Keep your ability to overturn mountains! This is an extraordinarily difficult case. I wanted to end with a very friendly appeal by asking all those who exercise responsibilities, whether it is in the context of the public authorities, whether it is in a series of structures, not to hesitate, as soon as the royal decrees have declined all this, to implement this. If the Chairman of the Committee on Finance invites us to do so, I am prepared, together with you, to monitor the evolution of the consequence of these legal provisions in terms of social dumping. I am ready to evaluate the results and remain attentive to the provisions that might be proposed in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u87	Minister, I will respond to two aspects. As far as the price aspect is concerned, I am well aware of the dramatic progress made by the minister. In fact, it has introduced into the law the spectacular advance of the directive. He could have gone further, but he didn't. I'd like to grade in on a missed date, but it's at least a forced date. What you did was mandatory, so you don't have much merit. And what you could have done in addition, you did not do by saying that you have confidence in the contracting authorities. Why don't you do it if you really believe it? You tell us you want to move forward, but the arrests are still not there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u88	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u89	Are they going to be adopted on Friday? I asked you many times about the date. You have not put forward any timing commitments in relation to your orders and, during that time, dumping continues to create job loss! So, commit yourself to a short, quick, precise timing, with real content in these orders!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u90	Minister, you are telling us that, thanks to the dramatic progress of this bill, contracting authorities will no longer be prohibited from using criteria other than the single price criterion. You can do reverse readings – and you like that – of the contents of the texts. What you are told is that by leaving the price criterion, you preserve the legitimacy of using only this criterion as an argument of choice. And you also know that a whole series of contracting authorities, by ease, will keep this habit of functioning. The directive allowed you to go further. Environmentalists are often criticized for wanting to go further and faster than legislation. Here, you were simply asked to respect and respond to everything that was permitted by this directive. You did less than what the directive allowed you to do. It is therefore not an ambitious project, it is the minimalist translation of the directive. You did not want to make this law a real anti-dumping tool and a real tool for more sustainable markets. As far as the orders are concerned, Mr. Minister, you are not ceasing to pretend to want to work in a transparent manner. "I am a minister who wants to come to the parliamentarians to give all the elements," you say. We're talking in the final phase. The vote will take place. I suppose your orders are ready; what prevents you from telling us what they contain, from giving us the timing? There's nothing to stop you. You are not asked to put your orders to the vote; you are asked to respect what you say, to work in transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u91	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u92	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1541/12) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1541/12) The draft law contains 193 articles and four annexes. The bill has 193 articles and four annexes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u93	• 89 - Marco Van Hees cs (1541/13) Annex V.Part 2.124 • 96 - Muriel Gerkens cs (1541/15)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u94	• 91 - Marco Van Hees cs (1541/13) • 92 - Marco Van Hees cs (1541/13) • 95 - Catherine Fonck (1541/14)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u95	• 93 - Marco Van Hees cs (1541/13) • 94 - Catherine Fonck (1541/14)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u96	• 97 - Muriel Gerkens cs (1541/15) Annex V.Part 2.124 • 98 - Muriel Gerkens cs (1541/15) • 99 - Frédéric Daerden cs (1541/15) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u97	Held: the vote on the amendments and Rules 7, 58, 66, 67, 69, 71, 81. Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 6, 8 to 57, 59 to 65, 68, 70, 72 to 80, 82 to 193, and Annexes I to IV.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u98	******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u99	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Tim Vandenput, whom I assume he refers to his written report. I only registered one speaker, Mrs Barbara Pas in particular. She's not here. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u100	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1690/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1690/1) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u101	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u102	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mrs Grovonius. She refers to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u103	Mr President, I would like to speak briefly about the discussion we have had in committee. We are obviously talking about Uruguay, which has long been considered a tax haven. This is why ecologists are delighted that a tax-type convention can allow the transfer, unfortunately not automatic, but a transfer of tax data between this former tax paradis or this tax haven - we do not know - and Belgium. There was a discussion between Mr Flahaux and me about the nature of Switzerland and Luxembourg as a tax haven. Foreign Minister Reynders said that to determine a tax haven, he was sticking to the OECD list. I would like to point out that since the Panama Papers, it turns out that although Switzerland and Luxembourg are indeed outside the OECD's tax haven lists, it remains that Panama Papers have made it possible to discover that Switzerland and Luxembourg are playing a back-line role in enabling the establishment of front companies based in Panama. Switzerland and Luxembourg, like perhaps Uruguay, I am not a specialist, can continue to play a role in tax evasion even though formally they are not on the OECD list of tax havens. That is why we still have these same fears about these non-automatic tax information transfer systems. That is why Ecolo-Groen will abstain from voting with enthusiasm for the automatic transfer of tax data between the former tax havens and our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u104	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u105	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1691/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (16911) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u106	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u107	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Hellings, rapporteur, referred to the written report. There were no speakers for the general discussion. The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u108	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1692/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1692/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u109	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u110	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Lijnen, rapporteur, stated that she referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u111	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the counterfeiting of medical products has become a very massive and alarming problem. During the Council of Europe's discussions on the drafting of the Council of Europe Convention on the counterfeiting of medical products and similar offences threatening public health, testimony from victims of these falsifications of medicinal products demonstrated the relevance of this Convention. A victim thus came to explain the consequences of false breast prostheses, whose gel had been replaced by motor oils. As a result, the corroded envelope eventually allowed this oil to spread in its body, causing serious damage and disturbance. We know the number of victims: 30,000 in France alone and 300,000 in the world. What are the consequences for these women? Will they be able to benefit from a new establishment? Will they be cured in the long term? I don't have the exact answer, but my intuition makes me think that evil is irreversible for them. Internet development also has a significant impact on the worldwide spread of counterfeit drugs. These can contain toxic products that, even in small quantities, can pose a serious public health problem in the slimming, stimulating and exciting sectors. This casts reproach and suspicion on the pharmaceutical and medical sector, and delivers the patient to the consequences of this lucrative trafficking, which Mrs Lijnen rightly stressed the expansion. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this convention, which is the first to combat counterfeit medical products and similar offences threatening public health, is necessary. We must ratify it as soon as possible; it is a good legal guarantee that we offer to our fellow citizens. We must also offer it, more broadly, to all the citizens of the world. Indeed, I only take the example of Africa. One in three drugs in Africa is counterfeit, and 90% of counterfeit drugs come from India and China. We must therefore also strengthen our controls on the Internet and at customs level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u112	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u113	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1703/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1703/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u114	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u115	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Van Biesen and Mr Scourneau.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u116	Mr President, I refer to the written report which has been extremely well done.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u117	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, everyone around the table knows that the tax shelter for the film industry, the audiovisual works, has always been a bit of the dada to which we have paid particular attention. Everyone will pay particular attention to it, especially on the eve of Cannes, where the red carpet has already been rolled out. Thanks to the modifications we are making today, the three actors in the field are winning. Firstly, the producers or producers of the film, who, thanks to this change, are more easily able to find funding for their projects. Secondly, the investors, who benefit from a risk-free tax advantage with their investment. Thirdly, the Belgian State, since this scheme stimulates economic activity in the film industry and audiovisual works. This draft law brings with it some necessary changes to the current regime. These changes ensure that the tax shelter remains interesting for investors and producers. As a result of the evolution of the audiovisual sector, more and more production companies with television channels are integrated into a group. By removing the condition that there should be no connection with a television programme, these production companies can call back the tax shelter for financing. Of course, appropriate measures have been taken here to avoid abuse. In addition, expenditure often needs to be incurred before an agreement is signed. Here too, the legislation is being amended to allow the framework agreement to go back six months in time to qualify for the tax shelter. We are therefore naturally pleased with the draft law before us. We will fully support it and look forward to the announced tax shelter proposal on the performing arts of Minister Van Overtveldt. We hope that before the recess we can also vote on the tax shelter for performing arts. I call on the government to finalise this and bring that bill to the Chamber in such a way as to give the performing arts the same incentive as the film industry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u118	Mr President, the tax shelter for the benefit of the film industry and production is an interesting tax scheme since it enables additional resources to be provided for cinematographic creation. It must be emphasized the day after the opening of the Cannes Film Festival in which Belgian films will compete. It is also an obvious economic lever, unlike other tax mechanisms, since, behind the advantages given to investors, workers can benefit from the system, especially from Belgian technicians. During the previous parliamentary term, we had organised hearings in the Finance Committee, which I had the pleasure of chairing, with various speakers in the tax shelter system, which led to a change in the system to correct certain abuses, in particular the diversion of means normally intended for audio-visual production, to various intermediaries. The system is now better regulated. The purpose of this text is to further refine the system and clarify certain concepts which, following the amendment introduced, did not appear clear and obvious to all the speakers. However, in the discussion with the Minister of Finance, we did not receive sufficiently precise answers in relation to questions that arise, including the setting of an 18% profit rate that could be counted by film producers, the means of control and the proper use and orientation towards production as such, the current practices and the risks of diversion of means of audiovisual production and workers in the sector. This is the only reason why we will abstain from the text before us today, which does not call into question our general support for this mechanism of the tax shelter for the film industry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u119	Mr President, this was not entirely apparent from the oral statement made by our excellent colleague, Mr Scourneau, but the debates we had in committee were interesting. They highlighted the technical corrections that the bill includes in order to address a number of problems that have arisen in the implementation of this support mechanism for the audiovisual sector. Perhaps the answers were not as complete as Mr Gilkinet would have liked, but we had an exchange on the subject, including on more ideological aspects, because most of the members who spoke thus welcomed the assistance provided to the audiovisual sector, with the exception of one or the other colleague. Indeed, our friends at the PTB have outraged themselves at the privatization of the cultural policy involved in this mechanism. For the rest, we were unanimous in our view that this mechanism is interesting, since it makes a significant contribution to a job-providing sector and encourages investment in it. In my turn, I agree with this largely positive assessment and with the interest we have in this sector. I would, however, like to confirm to you the tabling of an amendment which is not intended at all to call into question the mechanism but which, on the contrary, reflects the interest shown by all the groups in this matter, since it involves asking the Minister of Finance to produce an annual report on the implementation of this mechanism. The aim is not at all to increase the administrative burden of the FPS Finances, but given that this sector is of interest to us all, that it is mobilizing significant financial resources and that it can, since we need to make changes, raise problems of drift or slippage, it seems to me useful, desirable and necessary to have an annual report on the implementation of this tax shelter in the sector so that we can measure more accurately all the impacts, including economic impacts. This is all the more desirable in view of the fact that this mechanism lies at the edge between the federal powers and the powers of the Communities. It is wise, whatever the level of power, to find themselves in these aid mechanisms, but this probably deserves a collaboration that could be formalised through this annual evaluation report. In today's press, we can also read the report of a study carried out by a private operator, the Belga Films Fund. This report is very positive in relation to the mechanism put in place, since it stresses that the new mechanism, the one in force since the 2014 legislative amendment, is much better than the previous one. If private operators are able to make evaluations of this mechanism from which they benefit, I would find it normal for the State itself to give itself the means to carry out an evaluation report of this mechanism to inform Parliament and all interested parties very fully about its effects, the means it mobilizes and the jobs it creates. I do not want to speak on behalf of the Minister of Finance who is not here today and who apologized. But this proposal did not indispose him, as he agreed on the substance, on the value of having this evaluation report. He simply considered, with the majority, that it might not be mandatory or interesting to introduce it into the law itself. It seems to me quite interesting, however, that he can make the commitment through the legislation that will be voted on and come back annually to the Finance Committee or Parliament to take stock of the implementation of this mechanism, since it is considered that the mechanism could be extended to other sectors. Mr. Van Biesen spoke in particular about the sectors of the performing arts. This mechanism is therefore expected to develop. This is one more reason than to evaluate it as finely as possible to measure its positive impacts and possibly correct its unintended effects. That is the point, Mr President, of the amendment which I submitted to the committee and which I resubmit to plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u120	Mr President, if I may, I will address Mr Gilkinet. I have understood his doubt about the minister's lack of response to his 18% question. Perhaps he was distracted by reading the report, because the minister replied. The objective of this rate is to align itself with the reference base applied in the French Community. If that was his only doubt, he could lift it by reading the last page of the report. For the rest, of course, my group welcomes this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u121	It was in fact an answer on behalf of the government. Nevertheless, is he asking for the floor? I'm sorry, Mr. Gilkinet would like to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u122	Mr President, since I am being questioned by Mr Scourneau, I would point out to him that not only did I read the report but I also heard the minister live. If you had read the report and followed the work as carefully as I did, you would have noticed that in my question about the knowledge of the state of the practices in terms of the remuneration of producers, the minister could not answer me. I understood that he was aligning himself with the practices of the Communities. However, my fear is that this rate will increase the amounts reserved for producers if they are not used for audiovisual production and for economic and employment activities in our country. If the minister had provided me with statistics showing me that everyone was practicing an 18% rate - which is, however, you will admit, relatively comfortable in view of the current state of the economy - he might have convinced me. The lack of statistics on this subject and the lack of a response to the ability to control the economic reality of these investments lead us to abstain from this precise provision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u123	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think all the points have been raised in committee. But after hearing Mr.Dispa repeat his request four or five times, I think it is still the role of parliamentarians to question the minister and make the assessment. Every year, you will have a good question to ask the minister in committee. I do not think that we should include this in the law's adaptation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u124	Minister, thank you for your answer. You can count on me to ask the minister about the implementation of the scheme. But I find, very objectively, that the culture of evaluating our public policies should be implemented in the mechanisms that we adopt. I think it would be useful to accept that, spontaneously, without necessarily responding to an inquiry, the government is accountable and transparent on devices that are not challenged in their philosophy. It would be a way of ensuring that the policies we encourage are effective. It is a culture of evaluation that I consider most desirable. I really regret that you cannot subscribe to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, I fully understand Mr Dispa's question, but legal evaluation and review of laws are the tasks of this Parliament. In the past these were tasks of a special committee, but this form of legislation with the tax shelter is a model example. This is the third change in a very short period of three years. We have made a fundamental change at the end of the previous legislature. At the last plenary session, we changed the tax shelter for the better, mainly in order to improve producers and production in Belgium and to move away from the idea that it would be a financial product of a number of financial institutions. It was partly for the benefit of the film industry. We are now expanding to the performing arts. We will continue to evaluate the tax shelter in these matters on a number of occasions. That's what happened today. Mr Dispa, you propose to register the obligation in the law to draw up reports and documents. This really is one of the legislations that has had the most checks. In the previous legislature, we even referred to Mr Gilkinet almost weekly hearings with all the actors on the ground to see how this legislation was applied in practice. As everyone in the film industry says, we have been able to change it for the better. Let us continue to work in this way, but let us not build in any obligations to get rid of it with a report. I believe that it is better for us as Members of this House to assume our responsibilities and, where necessary, to amend the legislation to the best of our ability, as we are proposing today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u126	In view of the majority's receptivity to the proposal, which was intended to be positive, I think my group will decide to abstain on the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u127	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u128	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1737/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1737/5) The draft law has 4 articles. The bill has four articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u129	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the reserved amendment and on the package will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u130	Sustained: the vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u131	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u132	******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u133	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Deseyn referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u134	Mr President, I will make a very brief statement from my bank. The design is a great design in itself. This may raise a problem with the improper use of services which enter the market in part. Until now, self-employed entrepreneurs, in particular, have been very often and rightly so, but there have been relatively few opportunities to inform and defend themselves on this issue. The Minister has ensured that there is a hotline so that entrepreneurs who feel disadvantaged by improper use of this legislation can sue and have them further investigated. In this respect, this is an important step forward. As a result, the value added tax advantage used in the market for these groups can be retained, but at the same time a much healthier market principle can be supported and where there are effective problems can be remediated. I would just like to stress that this is an important step for us in this legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u135	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that we often get the impression that we do not really serve local and local authorities well or approve certain legislative proposals or drafts which have repercussions on the advantage or disadvantage of the municipalities. I just want to get technical. I want all my fellow Members to read the report after this and at least deliver it to their groups in the various parliaments. This draft law has a direct implication on the functioning of municipalities, hospitals and banks. It is about the cost-sharing association, not obvious as such. It requires the creation of a separate non-profit-making entity and those services to which the exemption is intended to be granted to other group companies. The purpose of a cost sharing association is to reduce the management and operating costs of non-VAT-based members. Common costs will be introduced into that association, after which it will be able to invoice these services to its members free of VAT. These conditions for the exemption have so far been severely limited by the European Commission. The main aim of this draft law is to ease the strict conditions for exemption. For example, the association will also be able to provide services for non-members, the 10% annual turnover threshold will be abolished and members of the group will no longer be required to carry out the same type of work. Cost sharing associations will thus become even more interesting than they already are. Municipalities, hospitals or even banks can achieve a lot of economies of scale thanks to this scheme. Ladies and gentlemen, let me quote a few examples. Through a cost sharing association, several hospitals can use the same medical equipment, have a common administration or cleaning service, etc. In addition, more and more hospitals offer family members of patients the opportunity to stay overnight. This so-called "hotel function' requires a significant investment, with the risk that the capacity will not be optimally exploited. By setting up a cost sharing association, it can be outsorceted. Banks and insurance institutions can also use a cost sharing association. Think of a common information or accounting service. In addition to hospitals and banks, our municipalities can make useful use of this scheme. There are a lot of municipalists in the room. That's why I'm stressing it. Think of the common purchase of snowblowers, technical equipment, street sweepers, etc. These are important investments for the municipalities. They can now set up a cost-sharing association with other municipalities and thus reduce the costs for the municipalities, and thus for taxpayers, by a VAT rate of 21%. Dear friends, I would like to ask all the groups, in Wallonia and Flanders, to take a full look at this bill. It has implications for their municipalities and for the promotion of cooperation between municipalities for the purchase of basic material. In this way, hospitals can also make certain investments together. This bill eases that possibility. This draft law offers the possibility of not falling into difficult constructions, as was the case in the past with the autonomous municipal companies, and of meeting the conditions more quickly. I would like to call on everyone to approve this bill, and also to communicate it to the regions, the Communities and local authorities, so that they can optimise their investments, without VAT.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u136	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u137	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1739/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1739/1) The draft law contains 5 articles. The bill has five articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u138	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u139	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u140	Mr President, I refer to my written report, which is not very long on a subject which has reached consensus.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u141	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u142	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1740/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1740/1) The draft law contains 8 articles. The bill has 8 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u143	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u144	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 11 May 2016, I also propose that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mr Jef Van den Bergh) amending the law on the police on road transport coordinated on 16 March 1968 as regards the confiscation and immobilisation of vehicles, No. 1820/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u145	- the legislative proposal (Mrs Sonja Becq and Mr Raf Terwingen) amending the Code of Justice as regards the powers and appointment of the curator in the case of unmanaged estates, No. 1821/1; - the bill (Mrs Sonja Becq, Mr Philippe Goffin, Mr Egbert Lachaert and Mr Raf Terwingen and Mrs Sarah Smeyers) amending the Civil Code as regards the calculation of the value of usufruct, No. 1825/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u146	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 11 May 2016, I also propose that you take into account: - the proposal for a law (Mr. Jef Van den Bergh) amending the Law on the Road Traffic Police, coordinated on 16 March 1968, concerning the confiscation and detention of vehicles, No. 1820/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u147	- the proposed law (Ms. Sonja Becq and Mr. Raf Terwingen) amending the Judicial Code with regard to the designation and powers of the trustee of a vacant estate, No. 1821/1; - the bill (Ms. Sonja Becq, MM. Philippe Goffin, Egbert Lachaert and Raf Terwingen and Mrs Sarah Smeyers) amending the Civil Code with regard to the estimation of the value of usufruct, No. 1825/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u148	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Colleagues, Deputy Prime Minister De Croo is coming to defend and motivate an urgency. With your permission, I propose that we start voting in advance. We shall then suspend the votes in order to deal with this urgency. If there is no objection, we shall act in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u149	Mr. Chairman, I understand that you are asking us to reverse the agenda so that the government can justify an emergency, but the government is here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u150	It was a project by Minister De Croo that specifically asked to be able to justify the request for urgency, hence my proposal to start with the votes and then to interrupt them in order to justify the urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u151	Mr President, it seems to me that usually when the government is present, the minister speaks for the government as a whole. As the government was present, I thought it could justify itself, but we can move forward because otherwise, I feel like we're going to waste a lot of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u152	This inquiry was developed in public meeting of the Commission on Public Health, the Environment and the Renewal of the Society on 3 May 2016. The interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Health, the Environment and the Social Renewal of 3 May 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 132/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Nathalie Muylle, Mrs Ine Somers and Mrs Valerie Van Peel and Mr Dirk Janssens. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 132/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Nathalie Muylle, Mrs Ine Somers and Mr Valerie Van Peel and Mr Dirk Janssens. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put that motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 75 Yes No. 55 Non Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 130 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Mrs Katja Gabriels, Mrs Ine Somers and Mrs Françoise Schepmans voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u153	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Apparently, there's a technical problem with the voting machine. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, with your permission, the sitting was resumed a little more quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u155	The Government requested urgent treatment under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the draft law amending the Law of 19 March 2013 on Belgian Development Cooperation, No. 1818/1. The government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law amending the Law of 19 March 2013 on Belgian Development Cooperation, No. 1818/1 was tabled. We shall give our opinion on this request for urgency in the usual way. In the meantime, it is customary for the government to justify the request for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u156	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank you for your patience and trust. We ask for the urgency of a draft law on the financing of non-governmental cooperation actors, which should start from 1 January 2017. What is important to know is that this funding is planned for a five-year period. If we fail to anticipate it now, we lose 5 years; in fact, we would have to finance it for 5 years in the previous way. The key elements are as follows. With our draft law, we are increasing the concentration of the various actors in non-governmental cooperation. We are reducing the number of countries in which they can operate. We are looking for more synergy between the different actors. So we want to be able to pursue a more efficient policy. I would like to thank you for your support, so that we can deal with the draft in a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u157	I suggest you join us and stand up and say something about the question. I suggest that we take a stand on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, the first vote must be repeated, because we have had technical problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u159	This inquiry was developed in public meeting of the Commission on Public Health, the Environment and the Renewal of the Society on 3 May 2016. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Health, the Environment and the Social Renewal of 3 May 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 132/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Nathalie Muylle, Mrs Ine Somers and Mrs Valerie Van Peel and Mr Dirk Janssens. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 132/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Nathalie Muylle, Mrs Ine Somers and Mr Valerie Van Peel and Mr Dirk Janssens. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u160	Yes 79 Yes No. 56 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u161	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 89 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 42 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1668/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1668/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u162	Mr President, I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u163	Mr President, I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u164	Vote on Amendment No 89 by Marco Van Hees cs. to Article 7.(1541/13) Vote on Amendment No 89 by Marco Van Hees cs. in Article 7.(1541/13) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes [[43]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 96 from Muriel Gerkens cs. to Article 58.(1541/15) Vote on Amendment No 96 by Muriel Gerkens cs. Article 58.(1541/15) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[12]] Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 42 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 58 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 58 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 90 by Marco Van Hees cs. to Article 66.(1541/13) Vote on Amendment No 90 by Marco Van Hees cs. Article 66.(1541/13) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes [[43]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 66 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 66 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 91 by Marco Van Hees cs. to Article 67.(1541/13) Vote on Amendment No 91 by Marco Van Hees cs. Article 67.(1541/13) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u165	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 92 by Marco Van Hees cs. to Article 67.(1541/13) Vote on Amendment No 92 by Marco Van Hees cs. Article 67.(1541/13) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u166	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 95 by Catherine Fonck on article 67.(1541/14) Vote on Amendment No 95 by Catherine Fonck to Rule 67.(1541/14) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[46]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 67 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 67 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 93 by Marco Van Hees cs. to Article 69.(1541/13) Vote on Amendment No 93 by Marco Van Hees cs. in Article 69.(1541/13) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 33 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 94 by Catherine Fonck on article 69.(1541/14) Vote on Amendment No 94 by Catherine Fonck to Rule 69.(1541/14) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes [[15]] Yes No. 101 No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 69 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 69 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 97 from Muriel Gerkens cs. to Article 71.(1541/15) Vote on Amendment No 97 by Muriel Gerkens cs. Article 71.(1541/15) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 32 Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 21 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 71 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 71 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 99 by Frédéric Daerden cs. to Article 81.(1541/15) Vote on Amendment No 99 by Frédéric Daerden cs. in Article 81.(1541/15) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes [[46]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 98 from Muriel Gerkens cs. to Article 81.(1541/15) Vote on Amendment No 98 by Muriel Gerkens cs. in Article 81.(1541/15) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 24 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 33 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 81 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 81 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u167	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 81 Yes No. 44 No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1541/17) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1541/17) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u168	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 134 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1690/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1690/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u169	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 93 Yes No. 31 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1691/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1691/14) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u170	Mr President, I voted against.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u171	Mr President, I voted against.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u172	Mr President, I voted against.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u173	Of which act.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u174	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 94 Yes No. 32 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1692/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1692/04) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u175	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 135 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1703/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1703/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u176	Vote on Amendment No 6 by Benoît Dispa inserting an article 3/1(n). (1737/6) Vote on amendment No 6 by Benoît Dispa to insert an article 3/1(n). (1737/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes 52 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u177	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes 117 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 21 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1737/7) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1737/7) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u178	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes 101 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 33 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1739/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1739/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u179	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes 112 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 20 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1740/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1740/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u180	Mr. Senesael abstained.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-12-54-plenair-ip110x.u181	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 19 May 2016. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 19 May 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday 19 May 2016 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 19 May 2016 at 2.15 p.m.
