ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u2	In accordance with Rule 17 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session, the Government requests that the draft law amending the law of 11 April 2003 on the decommissioning of nuclear power stations and the management of nuclear fuel irradiated in those power stations and the law of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market, Nos 2070/1 to 5, be submitted. The Government is requesting, pursuant to rule 17.3 of the House's Rules of Procedure, to include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the bill amending the Act of 11 April 2003 on provisions for the dismantling of nuclear power plants and the management of irradiated fissile material in such plants and the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organization of the electricity market, Nos. 2070/1-5. Are you sure you don't mind? No observation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u3	Mr. Chairman, I find it very special that the government is asking for this item to be placed on the agenda of our business. Without going into the debate in depth, I would still like to point out that in committee, when we worked on the subject, there were two different versions of the government's position. In the morning, we were told it was white. In the evening, we were told it was black. That is to say, if the report which is distributed to us here on the benches will be something extremely important for possible recourse. We know that appeals are in the order of the possible. CREG points out this in its opinion. I also wanted to thank the services which have done their utmost to give us this report, signed by Mrs Lalieux in particular, in time. However, discovering such a report knowing the importance of this document, when it is here in session, is at least problematic. Mr. Chairman, I would like to know what the government's motivation is for this point to require that we work today with a document that we receive in session on such an important subject. This is one of the parties, one of the chapters related to the extension of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 nuclear power plants. I'd like to understand why we can't work this safely next week. According to the minister's response, we will act properly in the light of the possibilities offered by our Parliament's Rules of Procedure, but at the very least I would like to understand the reasons behind this item, which is not on the agenda of our sitting today and which has not been the subject of consensus in the Conference of Presidents. We have argued in detail why we do not want this point to come urgently because there is a fundamental legal risk. Anyone who has attended our work can attest to this. I would first like to understand before I can, if necessary, react to the positions that the government will take. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u4	Minister, I will give the floor to the government after the speeches of the colleagues who have asked for the floor. Thus, the questions will be grouped together.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u5	Mr President, I am going to go along with my colleague. For energy-related projects, we must always work in an emergency. This project has enormous consequences for the state budget. Although we are rapporteurs for this bill, we sometimes have completely contradictory answers between what was voted and the report. Mr President, I think working in serenity is growing up for all of us. Like Mr.Nollet, I think we can discuss this bill without a problem next week. So we could properly analyse the report, which has only been on the bench since today. I also ask that this bill not be placed on the Orders of the Day for our plenary sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u6	Mr President, I fully agree with the previous fellow speakers. I myself am a reporter of the discussions in the relevant Chambers Committee. That committee meeting was turbulent. In the morning we received a statement from the Minister. In the afternoon I had to leave for another committee meeting and when I returned I heard the opposite. The Minister's opinion had changed completely. I think that we in Parliament should give everyone the opportunity to do serious work. The fact that we are getting the report on our banks and should proceed to the discussion and vote on the draft law almost immediately cannot be considered serious. I therefore propose that we postpone this item until next week. Frankly, I do not understand why the Minister, and by extension the Government, wants that point to be manifested today. We all know that there is a budgetary problem and we all know that nuclear interest must be collected effectively. Electrabel has already received a gift, because a much lower amount was requested, but well, passonsons. The draft law can also be dealt with next week, without any problem with the budget. So I wonder why the Minister clearly wants the matter to be dealt with now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u7	Mr President, there have been three committee meetings, almost a hundred pages of report, and today the request, following the tabling of this report on our benches this afternoon, to deal with the document urgently. We had committee meetings that required a lot of questions. The answers are not necessarily complete and satisfactory. We believe it is important to be able to read the report in order to feed our debate in plenary and to be comprehensive in view of this distributional contribution. The latter is important to everyone, whether they are operators or government. I therefore do not see, Mr President, what can be the full justification for this urgency. I request that this matter be dealt with in the usual standards and deadlines at our meeting next Thursday.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u8	Mr Vice-President, I had written a letter to Mr Bracke to highlight the two-way approach to the agenda. I really find it a problem when, as parties not present at the Conference of Presidents, we receive an e-mail today at 11:05 stating that the agenda is changing and that the discussion of such an important legislative text is being added. That will be notified at 11:05. We have three hours to know that the agenda will change here. On the one hand, there are no problems for certain laws. It's about laws to give gifts to Electrabel. They go through at three o'clock; the decision is immediate. On the other hand, we have been asking Mr Bracke for two months to put the issue of Members' pensions on the agenda. There has been a year of discussion, which means that everyone can still retire at 55 years. That is not a problem, that point is being postponed. Mr Vice-President, when Mr Bracke comes back, he must make us respect our rights; the agenda and democracy must be respected. It's time to work on that file in depth. I say clearly that there are other things than giving gifts to electrabel, among others, and all before 1 January. That's all easy. So tell him that from our side.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u9	Dear colleague, first of all, I would like to remind you that when...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u10	One moment, one member still wants to intervene!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have indeed spent a great deal of time on this draft law in committee. There have indeed been hearings. There is an opinion from the CREG. We have discussed matters very thoroughly. In fact, I have to say that many of the people who are now asking to wait for this, because they need to be able to go through the report thoroughly, have received that report and should have passed on their comments by yesterday at 14:00. I understand now that you have not even taken the trouble to read that report, which concerns me somewhat about the quality of the work here. Mr Hedebouw, I would also like to say a few words about your speech. I understand that you consider this to be a very important law and that you think that it should be considered thoroughly. Indeed, it would have helped if you had been effective in the committee during the discussion, because you would have been able to experience the discussions and could have heard the Minister's answers about a law that you consider to be very important. Finally, I think there was a certain line in what was told and pointed out in committee. Mrs. Temmerman, I remember you saying you'd been gone for hours and nothing had changed. In that respect, it is somewhat strange that you see a completely new turn in the story. I must add that the reason why we are discussing this now or should be discussing it is Mr Nollet's announcement that he will take delaying measures, that he will table amendments to send it to the Council of State, so that we cannot deal with the draft. If the question is to postpone it for a week, so that your delay mechanisms have more effect, then I think that is a question that is really not appropriate if you think this is an important design.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u12	Monsieur Hedebouw, je vous ai vu!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u13	Mr President, I did not want to prolong the debate, but Mr Wollants is questioning the fact that we have reread the report. Mr Wollants, I would like to point out that yesterday I sent comments to correct the report. So we did our job, under unacceptable conditions, because always in an emergency, Mr Wollants. And if we have to work under such conditions, it is not the fault of the opposition. Don't always overturn the situation! It is, of course, the fault of this majority and of the minister who puts all his projects in emergency, absolutely all his projects and who, in turn, sets deadlines with Electrabel. She and you know it! Mr Wollants, I am not going to do the debate here, but when we read the opinion of the CREG, 80 pages of criticism, as well as the opinion of the Council of State, it seems to me that this obviously deserves correct work and that we must all take the time to read this report, which has been corrected, in any case by the Socialist Group. So, no lessons here, Mr. Wollants, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u14	Colleagues, I still have two requests for intervention and then we will give the floor to the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u15	Mr Wollants, I hear first of all that you regret that we are on the committee. We now have two Members of Parliament on 11 committees. I want to assure you and reassure you: in 2019, thanks to your politics, thanks to the anger of the people, we will be here with a lot more and then we will be on the Energy Committee to have a clear opposition. Now you're already frightened, that's something else for the N-VA. You're already stressful, see the tweeting about the Smartest Man. Secondly, the N-VA cannot be serious about the pace of work, with all the blunders of Minister Marghem that you need to clean up. You're here to tell us that you think that rhythm is correct, come on! That rhythm is simply pushed forward by Electrabel. It's Electrabel who decides who's gonna argue when. I simply find this irresponsible to our democratic rights of parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u16	Mr. President, Mr. Wollants, I knew you would intervene. The advantage is that we know each other. The advantage is that you are familiar with the situation. Of course, we had the opportunity to make remarks until yesterday, 2:00 p.m. But it is only now that I can take note of any comments you have made and which the minister has made on the report. Admit this state of affairs! That is why it seems to me to be extremely important in this kind of situation, especially when we know that the minister has changed her point of view during the course of the proceedings, thanks, in particular, to your intervention, that each of the members, including those who were in committee, can check whether this is well reflected in the report. However, Mr Wollants, I was unable to carry out this verification yesterday. I can only do it now, after finding out the report on my bench. I would also like to thank the services once again for working very quickly despite the untenable delays imposed by the government. It is obvious, Mr Wollants, that if your majority forces this bill to be placed on the Orders of the Day, we will table amendments because the Council of State is entitled to position itself, in particular, in relation to the remarks made by the CREG. Indeed, at the time, he did not have sufficient evidence to properly have an informed opinion on such an important project. Mr President, in doing so, I'm saving time. If the minister maintains her point of view and demands that this item be placed on our agenda when we have not had time to verify any changes she has made in the report, we will table a series of amendments. And I have the impression, Mr Wollants, that the Ecolo-Groen group will not be the only one, but it is an impression!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u17	Mr President, I thank you for giving me the floor after these various speeches, most of which I am familiar with. As Mr Nollet said very well, I am used to this kind of intervention. The government is still working in an emergency. We don't have time to look at the texts. According to the opposition, the latter are not sufficiently substantiated. As Mr Wollants did before me, I would like to recall a few points. First of all, when we tabled this file in October – I would remind you that we are already in December – we did indeed request its treatment in an emergency. Why? Because we know in advance what the opposition will set aside for our projects, depending on the virtualities of the Rules of the House. So we have to do this early enough!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u18	And ask for the advice of the CREG then!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u19	I'm asking you for a moment, Mr. Nollet. I didn't interrupt you, let me continue my intervention!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u20	Go ahead, Madam Minister. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u21	Mr President, thank you for exercising the right of every speaker to speak without interruption. Mr de Lamotte, I would like to recall that we had four committee meetings, that we heard Mr Bruno Colmant and the CREG for the first time – I will explain why later – and that we made sure that the latter gave its opinion on the whole of the draft – which had never happened for an energy law text, whereas it was rather a work to be entrusted to the Council of State. Moreover, when the majority – its members present here will testify – asked to be able to hear the CREG on the whole of its report, the opposition refused it. In other words, the game for the latter is to reject any demand from the majority and vice versa. The time must therefore be taken to ensure that all these procedures, which are the result of manoeuvres by committee partners who know each other too well, succeed so that the vote can take place, since it must take place. If you don't mind, I'm going to get to the bottom of the problem. Why is the government now asking for an amendment to the agenda? Mr Nollet recalled: because there was no consensus in the Conference of Presidents which I did not attend. Why? Because the opposition, on the basis of the arguments that are now raised, declined, inflated, did not want to be modified today, whereas this dossier has been introduced from the beginning to be treated as a matter of urgency. So he's following his normal course. That is the basis of the treatment we have given here in this Parliament to this matter. Therefore, the government imitates the opposition by using certain possibilities – not "virtualities" – as the opposition is much more creative than we are with the Rules of the House. Article 17.3 refers to the possibility of requesting the proper processing of a file in an emergency. We had four committee meetings. The last meeting lasted nine hours. During this meeting, after the opposition refused to proceed to the immediate hearing of the CREG on its opinion on the whole project, we examined this project in length, wide, across, deep, surface, oblique. Having reread the report, I indicated yesterday, at 2:00 p.m., that the government had no comments to make on this report. That others have comments to make on this report, that others are never satisfied with this government's policy, to the limit, we are used to it. But, Mr President, I would like to take into account the argument that this matter has been dealt with urgently from the outset. We must continue to do so, and that is what we are doing by asking for inclusion on the agenda. The basic reason we must continue to do so is that we know that the opposition intends to table amendments to be sent to the Council of State. We are no less experienced than the opposition in calculating the deadlines and, of course, we are going to ask for these amendments to be dealt with urgently by the Council of State. Mr President, this will allow the text before you to be voted before the end of the year because it concerns... [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u22	I'd like to talk! A deal? You don't have any! You're making threats!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u23	Madam Minister, you have the floor, but avoid engaging in intimate conversations with each other, otherwise we will never succeed! Je vous en prie,terminez votre intervention!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u24	So, if you don't mind, and following your advice, Mr. President, I'm going to go straight to the end. It is important that this dossier can be dealt with and voted on by this plenary meeting before the end of the year, which is why we must continue to deal with it at the same pace, and allow the opposition to do what it threatens to do, what it wants to do, what we know it will do. In this way, on the basis of the opinion of the Council of State which will come, we will be able to vote and debate in plenary session a text covering 130 million euros to be returned to the State funds before 31 December. It has to be said: if anyone wants to take the responsibility here that the state budget does not have the means it needs to function in the general interest, I want to hear the arguments that it will put forward to base its theory. This is a messy theory, because everyone here, the majority and the opposition, must want the state budget to function properly, in the general interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u25	I think that, while respecting the Rules of Procedure, everyone has been able to express themselves almost in serenity. I shall therefore put to the vote the request to amend the agenda: those who vote green, those who vote against red. The vote is open. Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 1) Yes 69 Yes No 58 No. Abstentions 0 Abstentions Total 127 Total In conclusion, the request to amend the agenda was adopted. As a result, the question of amending the agenda was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u26	Mr President, I am now tabling amendments, which I would ask you to send to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u27	I have therefore just received two amendments from Mr de Lamotte et al. to Article 3. On the same Article 3, there is an amendment by Mrs Lalieux, mevrouw Temmerman et al. MM. Nollet and Calvo tabled amendments to Articles 3, 4 and 10 and to Section 3. Is Mr Nollet's request for consultation with the Council of State supported by 50 members? I ask the members who support the request to stand up so that they can count them. 58 members supported the request for an opinion to the Council of State. 58 members support the request for the opinion of the Council of State. The advice of the Council of State will be sought within five days, in accordance with rule 98.3 of the Regulations. We now turn to topical issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u28	Mr Prime Minister, last week you made it clear that this government will not make use of its legal capacity to interfere with Prince Laurent's dotation. You said at that time that you would call him to order. After he had for the umpteenth time failed to follow the rules, Minister Reynders was allowed to explain the rules to him again. I don't know if that's happened in the meantime. I am convinced that this is urgently needed, because it is going in the wrong direction: it is starting to sound gibberish. Yesterday, Prince Laurent announced in an interview that he paid much more to the State than the State ever did to him. That is quite a punishment, Mr Prime Minister, for someone who has only been paying taxes on a small part of his contribution for three years and who has never had to pay taxes on it before. Prince Laurent has made some harsh statements. He says he's being mocked, that he's being harassed, even that he's being boycotted in his work. He added that politics should leave him alone. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to hear your response to that, because this cannot of course be done. I am sure you can tell me whether the discussion with Minister Reynders has already taken place and what was the outcome of it, or when it will take place? There is another question to which I would like an answer today, Prime Minister. After another incident in a few weeks, do you still support what your 2017 budget says about the donation to Prince Laurent? It says that the taxpayer will pay him more than this year, that the 2% savings, annually, do not apply to Prince Laurent, but also to the rest of that heavily subsidised doll theatre. Do you think it's normal that the non-taxed part of the dotation is still rising the most? I am very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have indeed taken note of the statements made by Prince Laurent. In my view, his words are not appropriate at all. As a member of the royal family, according to law, he must show restraint in his public statements. I ask for respect for Parliament and will therefore, in consultation with Didier Reynders, have a conversation with Prince Laurent and repeat the rules. I will inform Parliament of the content of that discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u30	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is only a discussion. I can't wait to see what's gonna get out of the bus. Prince Laurent has already said that he is sticking to his statements. I note that, before the elections, there was a large consensus among the Flemish majority parties to modernise the monarchy and limit it to a protocolary function and that there was a consensus to abolish or at least reduce the donations of all family members to the umpteenth knothole. I have to say, however, that nothing of this is coming into the house today. When it comes down to it, people get down on their knees to the power of Laeken and then the only force of change is that Prince Laurent may continue to break the rules without a penalty. The power of change is that those dotations continue to rise. Prime Minister, if you are going to speak to Prince Laurent, my advice is to give him what he asks. Give him peace and quiet, leave him alone by completely abolishing those donations. Then he no longer has to answer for that and everyone can leave him alone.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u31	I have to ask Mr. Nollet to speak less closely to the interpreters' booth. Let all those who want to hold special discussions do so in places other than in the Chamber! From here on, the background noise is extremely painful for the speakers. Whether or not you like the speakers, whatever they are, I ask you at least to respect them. I think that's the least I can do.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u32	Mr President, Prime Minister, a few months ago, in the Committee on the Interior, Minister Jambon came to tell us about his civil protection reform. To sum up, the minister would like to reduce the missions of these services, transfer some of the civil protection personnel to the relief areas, and above all, he would like to reduce the number of barracks that protect the country from six today, three in the north and three in the south of the country, to two, one in the north and one in the south of the country. I think, Prime Minister, this is a very bad project for civil protection. It is a project that will reduce the protection of citizens and increase the time to respond to disasters. I absolutely do not share the view of the Minister of the Interior. That said, today there are workers waiting for concrete decisions, clarifications on this reform. There are 1,100 workers: 450 professionals and 650 volunteers. In particular, they are awaiting a decision on the choice of the two barracks to be maintained in the country. Yesterday I asked the minister in the Committee on the Interior. He stated that there was a government-level freeze due to the CD&V. If that is the case, I should like to congratulate my colleagues on the CD&V for their foresight, especially as it appears from the information gathered behind the scenes of the Ministry of the Interior that the choice would ultimately be on the barracks of Brasschaat in the North and Crisnea in the South. This choice would obviously be based on very objective criteria and would be unrelated to the fact that Brasschaat is part of the commune of which Minister Jambon is a mayor and that Crisnée is the commune of which our colleague from MR M. Goffin is a mayor. These are completely objective goed bestuur choices. Prime Minister, I see you're dubious. On the one hand, I would just like to know whether you share the vision of civil protection proposed by the Minister of the Interior. On the other hand, what is the nature of the blockage that today prevents civil protection workers from being reassured about their future?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I really want to reassure all members of this House. We all share the same objective. If civil protection and civil security reform are carried out, it is in order to make the functioning and the capacity to act more optimally. Indeed, I confirm this – we assume – the government agreement provided for a willingness to act in an attempt to optimize the functioning of civil protection by making it more complementary to the missions that are being carried out from the relief zones. The government agreement also provides for the possibility of establishing cooperation agreements between relief zones and civil protection. The approach we advocate is a specialisation approach, based on a capacity to develop more specialized functions at the outset of civil protection. And I confirm to you exactly, as Minister Jambon said in committee, not that there is a blockage in the government but that a debate is under way. We will continue to work intensively in the coming days, in order to be able to decide as quickly as possible on the few last arbitrations, which concern certain points related to the location of barracks, with the desire to take into account the criteria useful in relation to this dynamic. I would also like to point out that it is our intention, of course, to ensure a quality dialogue with the staff concerned. And I want to pay tribute to the work carried out by professionals, volunteers who often, in difficult times, times of potential disaster, are faced with a work that is complex and for which we must pay tribute to the efforts made. In any case, we respect the work done, which is why we want to start a reform with all those directly concerned. There is no doubt that we will have the opportunity, Mr.Member - I know you are very interested in this matter - to extend parliamentary debates, since I hope the government will quickly decide the last questions in relation to this important subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u34	Prime Minister, I am somewhat disappointed that you have confirmed the death of four barracks in the country. Further reductions in federal services, which are in line with what is being done at the Defence level and which, of course, follows the views and strategy of your N-VA partner in the majority! In view of future choices, I think that the barracks in Liedekerke and Jabbeke are very good choices. I am observing my colleague Bogaert de Jabbeke, who, I am sure, is also very sensitive to the issue of maintaining the Jabbeke barracks. I invite you to continue your fight to try to curb this reform, which will have very bad consequences for the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u35	Mr President, Prime Minister, you made this trip to Tunisia a few days ago with your Dutch and Luxembourg Prime Ministers. I'm glad. I believe that this was an important signal to a country that is at the forefront of the fight against terrorism, a country that is known to be fragile, whose democracy, stability and economic development are extremely fragile. In Ms Mogherini's words: "This is a strategic priority for the European Union". It is therefore important to move from speech to action, and I think that is in part what you have done in certain areas. For example, in the area of security and defence, Belgium has quadrupled its efforts. You said that in the area of intelligence, we could also have greater cooperation. On the other hand, there are elements where our country can do better, where aid today is too modest. In terms of debt review, to be able to transform it into investment, we are only 11 per cent of Tunisia's debt, although this has been a promise for several years to be able to turn this debt into investment. I would like to hear from you on this subject. I had been calling for Tunisia to be our fifteenth partner country in bilateral cooperation for a very long time. That would be very important. But I think that the most important area, where Tunisians really expect us, is that of travel notices. Our travel advisories in Tunisia are extremely restrictive today. You'll tell me we're not playing with security, but I brought the map of France's travel notices. France's travel advisories for Tunisia are much more nuanced since, for France, Tunisia is placed in the same rank as Israel, Lebanon, Turkey, Jordan or Egypt, which is not the case for Belgium. You know that tourism is an extremely strategic sector for the Tunisian economy. Tunisia asks us to review these questions and to nuance our travel notice. That is one of the questions I would like your answer to.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u36	Mr President, on the record, I am not going to be very long because we do share the diagnosis. We both believe that Tunisia is an important country in the changing world, particularly in the area in question. There is a democratic transition that must be sought to deepen, consolidate and support. Indeed, this Benelux mission is a first. It is a political message that I strongly believe, not only a political message but also commitments, since the three countries have fulfilled a number of commitments in various areas: economic development, investments, for example, in order to try to support the efforts to create jobs and therefore social cohesion in Tunisia, in order to support the democratic process, security cooperation and, in this context, you have mentioned, in recent years and especially under this government, the number of successful military cooperation efforts has increased. I have had the opportunity to meet with the Tunisian military, to see on the ground how these efforts are bearing fruit, and it is important to support this work that is being carried out. I recall that there are more than 500 km of common borders with Libya. All that shows is the extent to which such cooperation is essential, and also cooperation in the field of intelligence services. Finally, we are also working, as you know, on migration and the movement of people to strengthen cooperation. On the travel notice, I am very sensitive to the appeal sent by the Tunisian side and I have undertaken to re-evaluate the arrangements that have been decided. There is a travel notice reserved for the moment but you know the procedure. This is a procedure at the start of the foreign affairs administration, at the departure of the diplomatic post. In consultation with Minister Reynders, we considered it necessary to request a further assessment from the MACO, which is currently under way. We wish to have this new assessment as soon as possible. And, indeed, I do not exclude on the basis of this new evaluation – but of course I want to be careful – that we can change the evaluation. However, in order to be nuanced and to show the difficulty of this subject, I would remind you that there are still more than 3,000 Tunisian FTFs that are potentially in Iraq and Libya. We must therefore take into account all the elements. There are fairly positive elements, including the security efforts, the democratic transition that is being strengthened, but there are also points that need to make us vigilant and cautious. Finally, perhaps one day we will have more European consultation on these issues, which would be favourable because today it is indeed a troubled message that is being given. Some States give opinions with a little more enthusiasm. Others are a little more cautious. There may be a need for intra-European consultation on the subject. It is also a point that has been raised in the Benelux context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u37	Prime Minister, my reply will be nuanced, because I agree with you on the essentials. Nevertheless, Tunisia must be seen as a strategic priority. You also moved to Algeria. It was also an essential signal to be given in terms of safety. Together with these two countries and Morocco, we must build a strategic partnership to stabilize and strengthen democracy in some of these countries and ensure that they can work with us in terms of security and development cooperation. Moreover, you did not mention the latter, but I will come back to it with the competent minister, because this is an extremely important issue. Finally, with regard to the travel notice, I will forward the card to you. For the French, Tunisia and Turkey represent the same type of risk. For us, it's totally different. It is still a paradoxical message that we send to a friendly country such as Tunisia.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u38	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Dilbeek police is ringing the bell. The number of acts of violence involving refugees has increased enormously over the last few weeks. Since the evacuation of the jungle of Calais, the pressure on West Flanders has increased. The government and local services immediately assumed their responsibility and played briefly on the ball to prevent such situations. The result is not chaotic and unsafe camps and no degrading conditions. We should be grateful to all the services involved for this. This doesn't solve all the concerns. Refugees are still trying to reach Britain, the promised country, on trucks. As a result of the increased controls, the problem has shifted inland. The many safehouses in Brussels are therefore a perfect base for reaching the other side of the Channel. Grand Bijgaarden and Dilbeek border Brussels. The pressure on parkings along the E40 in Groot-Bijgaarden is increasing. In fact, asylum seekers used to try to get into these trucks unnoticed, but recently, asylum seekers have been using force to get into the trucks. The distress call sounds louder and louder. Recently a truck driver was attacked during his rest with a knife wound as a result. There have also been a number of incidents in this area in recent weeks. That's unacceptable. Desperation is understandable, but aggression never. Minister, what measures will you take to tackle the problem? Given the limited numbers, do you see an enhanced cooperation between local and federal police? In Jabbeke, Mannekensvere and Drongen people already use private surveillance. Its deterrent effect alone has proved its worth. Can we also employ private security firms here?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u39	Mr Minister, ever since the closure of the refugee camp in Calais, more and more migrants have been trying to climb our highway in trucks. It is known that along the E40 towards the coast people smugglers charge heavy money to people who are on the run to climb trucks to try to get to England. Your Flemish colleague, Mannekensvere, Jabbeke and Drongen, is right to use private companies to monitor these parkings. It was written in the stars that if three peripheral parkings were guarded, the unguarded parkings for the lorries along the inland motorway would be in trouble. So there are more incidents. It's not just these incidents that worry me. For three weeks, truck drivers have also been confronted with verbal and physical violence. Last week, a truck driver was threatened with a knife. It can't be that a truck driver taking a break or going to spend the night should be afraid to get out of his cabin because he might be verbally or physically attacked. Mr Minister, have you been in contact with Mr Weyts on structural measures since the incidents? Have you asked the East Flemish and the West Flemish governors for advice on how to organise things in a structural way? The parking lot in Oudenburg remains closed. Every six months you extend the closure together with your colleague from Flanders. Is this gonna stay like this? When one car park is closed, of course one goes to other car parks. Will you ensure that the safety of the truck drivers is guaranteed, so that they can get back in and out of their cabin safely?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u40	Mr President, Mr Demon and Mr Janssens, the problem of refugees along the E40 is not new, we know it. Many actions have already been carried out, and that is why we have very regular consultations with the various actors. For example, at the end of October this year we were still together with the provincial governor of Flemish Brabant, the Leuven parquet and Halle-Vilvoorde, the police forces involved, the federal police and the police zones to look at the problems. Also on 8 November last, there was a discussion with the governors and Minister Ben Weyts on how to deal with illegal trafficking in human beings. This is about the well-known waterbed effect, where a problem, if one places a lot of pressure, raises it somewhere else. That's a well-known phenomenon. It is therefore important to remain vigilant everywhere, and not only where the phenomenon first arose, namely in the province that is close to your heart, Mr Demon. Over the past few weeks, it has been found that the illegals in the wider area, not only in the parking areas, but also in the companies located around the parking lots, are active. That is why several actions have already been taken. You are right to note the cooperation with the Dilbeek police. I would also like to thank them very much for the enormous efforts they have made. Since then, they have been subject to increased surveillance. During that surveillance, they have already been able to apprehend 16 illegal immigrants. Every day there are also checks by patrols of the federal road police to deal with the illegal problem across the motorway parking network. At the beginning of October a very big action took place at the parking lot of Groot-Bijgaarden. Next Tuesday, I have scheduled another meeting with the local and federal police to see how the actions can be strengthened, because, as in West Flanders, I want those cases to be resolved. Regarding the closing of parkings and the use of private surveillance, my Flemish colleague Ben Weyts is competent. The law on private security was adopted by the government at first reading and will be submitted to Parliament shortly. However, the initiative to close parking spaces lies with Mr Weyts, of course when it comes to parking on the Flemish highways.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u41	Minister, we share your concern. We must tackle aggression against truck drivers with great rigour. Further cooperation between local and federal police is therefore necessary. Private security agents can also contribute to this. We must all make full use of these opportunities. Let it be clear: whoever leaves for work should never worry about his safety. Never.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u42	Minister, it is important that you send a message. Even though your Flemish colleague is responsible for the parkings, all the levels of policy are municipal, urban, Flemish and federal authorities have to deal with the problem together. We must not just refer to the others, but we must work together. I know you like action. Let us put our heads together, including the governors, to tackle the problem, because the local police areas also need to row with the belts they have. We absolutely must support them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u43	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, 2016 was particularly marked by the maximum commitment not only of the military but also of the police to ensure our safety. The level of threat has remained very high throughout the past 12 months, resulting in a very high workload. They have shown professionalism in the quality of their work but also a huge self-denial, not hesitating to place their family life in the background. To thank them for having produced, without reshuffling, a heinous and dangerous work and for having done many hours, some are being reduced the retirement age and others limited in their fundamental rights. This is a strong signal from the government to law enforcement. Mr Minister, in Liège, the King's Prosecutor, with the approval of the Attorney General, issued a circular on the use of coercion by police officers, which is only an interpretation that goes beyond the European Court's human rights provisions. According to the Liege police, Minister, this misinterpretation will have a serious impact on the way police officers perform their duties. Moreover, this circular is only applicable in the judicial district of Liège. Police officers whose missions are constantly made more complex, in view of the laxity of the authorities in certain matters, are already subject to various controls by several bodies. In other words, they are constantly scrutinized and are not entitled to any error, without which, like a sword of Damocles, serious sanctions may break their careers. Minister, my questions are simple. Are you going to consider the police officers to their worth and not to be inferior beings? Should they not instead receive more credit from the legislator? Are you going to have this circular removed immediately?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u44	Mr President, Mr Carcaci, my answer is given on behalf of Mr Geens. My colleague from Justice points out that the College of Attorneys General has indicated that the circular of the Prosecutor of the King of Liège on the use of coercion by the police in the performance of their duties is obsolete following a new Salduz bis legislation. Any police officer who is involved in a record of the use of coercion that has resulted in serious injuries has the right to consult a lawyer before being heard. The subject was discussed last week at the meetings of the Senior Police Negotiating Committee. Minister Geens informed that a draft circular of the College of Attorneys General is under discussion and was the subject of meetings on 6 December in Brussels and 7 December in Liège, in the presence of representatives of the College who met with the trade union organisations in order to listen to their demands and the fears of the police officers. This circular will be national and will have the effect of standardizing the procedures to be followed. The item will be discussed again this Monday, December 12, in the Senior Police Negotiating Committee co-chaired by the Minister of Justice and myself. As soon as this circular is validated, a working group will be established. It will bring together representatives of the authority and representative trade union organisations. The judiciary, the Minister of Justice and I have the best consideration for the police and for the work they do. We are working together to find solutions that respect the law and the rights of both police officers and citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u45	Mr. Chair, Minister, thank you for your response on behalf of the Minister of Justice. Our police officers must be on the street. They will be respected by the population and they will be feared by the delinquents, as our law enforcement forces were, in the past. Our police officers must have a presumption of self-defence, in the event of the use of force or their weapon. Everyone will agree, minister, that fear must change sides.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u46	Mr President, Minister, a week ago, for the third time, Bpost made a new offer to the Dutch PostNL. However, the management and the Dutch government rejected this takeover bid. Observers argue that the management of bpost has mishandled the approach to PostNL. Perhaps there are several elements that have played a role in the Dutch decision, but political statements such as 40 percent of the shares are still the boss of the case, on the contrary. Bpost is a performant company with 26 000 employees, which performs an important social task and strives for sustainable economic growth. Now that the takeover has been launched, Bpost must, of course, look for a new strategy, new growth opportunities. The number of postal operators with which operational synergy is possible is limited. Postal companies in our neighbouring countries may be too big for bpost unless bpost itself is eaten. Minister, I have two questions. First of all, how do you see the future of bpost after the failed takeover attempt? Secondly, is bpost in the window or do you prefer a stand-alone scenario? Will you resist if a foreign player would like to buy up bpost later?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u47	Minister, what a disappointment! And yet, it's been months since we've been begging you to change course, to change your strategic vision of the future of bpost, but you didn't want to hear anything. But yes, bpost needs an ambitious project, whether in societal or industrial terms, but not in this way. Your laxity in this issue leads us to the impasse we are experiencing today. Lax about defending the quality of employment of the 25,000 workers, lax about defending the public service missions of bpost, lax about strengthening the local anchor of this public operator. Cake on the cake: the third bpost offer for the takeover of PostNL represented a real defrocking of Belgian interests, while at the same time the Dutch were fighting for their own national interest within PostNL, a fully privatized group. It's a big deal! In this case, Minister, you have played the business banker instead of acting as a minister who guarantees the national interest. We regret it. My question will therefore be very simple: when do you intend to change course? When do you finally plan to fight hard, not only for the public and general interest, but also for the 25 000 bpost workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, bpost is a strong postal company, one of Europe's most performing postal companies, thanks to the many efforts of all its employees and management. I hear the CEO and the management say that bpost is now continuing in a stand-alone scenario and will investigate other growth opportunities. As a shareholder, I think we should assess every project on its merits. The lens we use is one of economic anchoring that leads to corresponding employment. We have also used this lens as a shareholder in the file now closed. Bpost is absolutely not in the window, it is rather the opposite. In my view, shareholdership is not an ideological issue. I have always said that it is not an obligation for me to go below 50%. Of course, it's not taboo either. We are looking at this from an industrial logic, as we have always done so far. With regard to the accusations from the Netherlands against bpost and our country, I can only answer: return to sender. In the past few months, the Belgian government has been asked to intervene with the Executive Board three times from the Netherlands to whistle back the Board of Directors of Bpost. This does not work in Belgium; in Belgium, the board of directors is autonomous with a public body and that board takes decisions in the interests of the employees and of the company. In fact, there is a very big contradiction and the situation is very bizarre. On the one hand, there is a Belgian company with the government as a majority shareholder, although that company can work perfectly without being obstructed in any way by politics. On the other hand, there is a Dutch company, for 100 % in private hands, but that is forced to act to the whims and wills of Dutch politics. That is a very big contradiction. Mr Vanden Burre, your question is irrelevant. You know very well that bpost management was talking about the potential creation of 3,200 jobs and that there was no question of layoffs. There was no synergy. We were in a growth perspective. Although, as shareholders, we were under 50%, a crowdfunding system was planned, as we had done in the case of BIAC. I can only note that we have allowed the bpost management to take control of its destiny. This seems to me to be a modern vision of a self-sustaining public enterprise. On the other hand, yours is tantamount to considering a public company as the sandbox of politics. That's not our conception.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u49	Mr President, Minister, in May you blamed your predecessor, Mr Labille, for the failure of the takeover. Today we find that the attitude of the Dutch in this story was very decisive. We take note of that. Bpost is a listed company, bpost is a performant company. We must now look ahead and appreciate every opportunity. However, I would like to stress once again that we must focus on the company's 26 000 employees, postmen, servants and managers. As provided for by the Law of December 2015, which amends the 1991 Act, we must ensure the continuity of employees' rights in relation to remuneration and pensions in each scenario. In this way we can also continue to count on the postmen and servants who work for the company and take care of our mail every day for the coming Christmas and New Year period.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u50	Minister, I have repeated this on many occasions: bpost is indeed a successful public enterprise. Satisfaction surveys are positive. Our fellow citizens are pleased with the public service currently provided by bpost. We can only rejoice in that. We are also seeking political non-interference. Excuse me, but the political sandbox is rather at the level of your discussions, like, "It's not me, it's my predecessor." Frankly, we're not in there. What I blame you for is that the government is not acting as an ambitious public shareholder. It takes ambition for bpost. It is felt that in this negotiation you have undermined the interests of workers but above all the public interest, the interest of an ambitious public shareholder. That's what I blame you for, Mr. De Croo. Don't come to say we're for politicization. We are for the opposite, we want you to play your role as an ambitious public shareholder.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u51	Minister, a quota policy has been introduced for doctors and dentists in Belgium. Its objective was to limit medical supply, in particular to limit the cost of health care and ensure its quality. In practice, the limitation of these quotas applies strictly only to Belgians. Under the free movement of workers and therefore health professionals, European doctors and dentists can come to Belgium and automatically benefit from an INAMI number. This isn't the first time I've dealt with this case. Here I have the figures for 2015 which show the entry of the holders of a diploma awarded abroad into the Belgian system. For the French Community, in 2015, 41% of doctors and dentists applying for an INAMI number were foreigners. For the Flemish Community, this is 16%. For dentists, the situation is even more serious: 51% of doctors who requested an INAMI number were foreigners; for the Flemish Community, 35%. So, with this INAMI number quota policy, we have come up with a completely absurd system, since in practice we are preventing doctors and dentists from exercising at home, even though by creating this shortage, we are making a terrible call for air abroad. Minister, I'm going to ask you two things here. I think it is necessary to take up more heights in the interests of all Belgians. On the one hand, we need to fundamentally review the INAMI quotas, fundamentally review the limitation of INAMI numbers for our Belgians and, on the other hand, introduce at least one language test for foreign doctors and dentists. I've already asked you about that. You fired me several times, even accusing me of a "fucksist." But very clearly, Madam Minister, the 2013 European Directive that you and your government transposed in 2016 allowed to do so. You decided not to. This is an undeniable mistake. Finally, let us remember that Austria, for example, applies the language test and has never been damaged by Europe. Control and requirements for professional skills also seem to me to be essential. This is, moreover, explicitly provided for in the European Directive.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u52	Mr President, Madam Minister, first of all I will be positive and concentrate solely on the last few months because it is a saga that has obviously been going on for many years. For months, especially in the Committee on Health, we have been trying to cross figures to identify the number of doctors approved, practising, full-time, part-time, Belgian, foreign, European, non-European, their place of establishment. We do all this work and we receive the Planning Commission with you several times. If we do all this, it is to try to assess how we can cover health care needs, since the objective – and I hope it is yours; it is, in any case, that of Ecolo-Groen – is to be able to guarantee everyone access to quality care, wherever you are in the territory. We also, of course, want to respect the rights of patients, and we also want not to discriminate against young people who in Belgium, do or wish to study medicine in order to practice in our own country. Each time, Madam Minister, you tell us that your goal is to ensure that managers and that quality are in fact guaranteed. Among the figures that I have already mentioned in committee and that have not yet been repeated here, the Planning Commission, in its evaluation for the coming years, told us that, by 2020, 250 to 300 Flemish students and 200 to 250 Francophone students will study abroad and then, will come back and benefit from INAMI numbers, since our system allows to grant an INAMI number to someone who has not studied at home. And we, in return, limit access to the right to practice and receive a number to young people who live here in Belgium. Madam Minister, what struck me this morning, when you read your answer in the newspaper Le Soir, is not so much the fact that you repeat that free movement prevents you from taking action on European doctors. What struck me was that you made reference to the Constitution which says "there is freedom of language use between two individuals". In this case, we are not "between two individuals" but in the relationship between a provider and a patient. So I come to my question. Madam Minister, you who regularly talk to us about good medical practice, do you consider that being understood by her doctor and understanding her doctor is not a requirement of quality of care, a evidence based medicine to which you like to refer your practices? Isn't it essential to have this in the relationship? Is it not necessary to get out of the mess and to change the current INAMI quota system, as it is now practised?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u53	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat the figures that have already been given by previous speakers. I see three cases. First of all, I consider that of the Belgian student who is studying medicine and who reaches the end of his studies, receives his INAMI number. Then we have the second case. It is that of the foreign student who comes to study medicine, who receives his INAMI number at the end of his master's degree, but in some cases returns to his country of origin after his specialization, and then deprives a Belgian doctor of an INAMI number. The third case is that of the foreign doctor who studies abroad and then comes here to Belgium. According to the principle of free movement, he receives an INAMI number in order to be able to exercise. Of course, the problem is not new, and I am surprised to hear Mrs Fonck finally give us, practically reading, in her speech, what I myself was able to read in this morning's newspaper Le Soir. Minister, you are providing some answers to this issue we are facing. But could you be more specific about what some call discrimination in assigning INAMI numbers to Belgian and foreign doctors?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u54	Thank you for your questions. I am fully aware of the problem of the influx of doctors with a foreign diploma. That is why my unit has studied, in collaboration with experts at national and European level, the possibilities of limiting this number, both for people who already have a diploma and for foreign students. At the moment, a political dialogue called policy dialogue is being prepared with the European Observatory for Health Systems and Policies. I agree with you: it is essential to have good communication with the patient in order to ensure a safe and high-quality provision of care. However, the possibility of subjecting the practice of the profession on Belgian territory to a certain level of linguistic knowledge is limited to two levels. The first is the free use of languages in the relationship between two individuals. Two: mandatory provisions of European law prevent disproportionate restrictions from being imposed on citizens of the European Union who wish to exercise their rights with regard to the free movement of persons, as well as their right to move freely to another Member State. It is important to stress that if certain provisions on language knowledge are to be introduced, these rules will, under European law, have to apply to Belgian citizens as well as to all other Europeans. In any case, the law of patients has for some time already provided that each patient has the right to be clearly informed about his or her state of health and that he or she is free to choose his or her provider of care. The figures which Mrs Fonck had noted in the press should also be nuanced. According to the information I have requested, half of the foreign doctors attest to the compulsory health insurance benefits. This figure can be nuanced by recalling that a doctor is considered to be active on the basis of a single invoiced service. It is possible to set up a quota to limit the influx of students from another Member State of the European Union, provided that it can be shown precisely that it has a negative effect on public health, for example because of the mass return of foreign students after their training, so that Belgium is unable to provide a medical offer adapted to the needs of the population. The ceilings for European Union nationals wishing to undertake their basic training at home must be imposed by the Communities. Indeed, it is they who are competent in the field of education. It is therefore at this level that the filter in question works. For its part, the federal government is responsible for the quotas to be set for the annual number of foreigners authorized to start a professional internship with a view to obtaining a particular professional qualification and for the quotas to be established for the annual number of foreign doctors authorized to certify their compulsory health insurance benefits. As the Communities are involved, they must be consulted. In view of the content of the 2005 Directive as recently amended by the 2013 Directive, it is impossible to organise additional tests to assess the competences of doctors who have been trained in a Member State of the European Union. There are already some for people with a non-European diploma. In addition, these tests are also organised by the Communities. Finally, I would like to inform you, as I did in committee, that as part of the reform of the law on the exercise of health care professions, I will take the necessary measures to eliminate abuses in the application of section 146 of this law. In particular, this article provides for the possibility of allowing third-country nationals to take a training course for a maximum of two years in our country. This article is subject to certain conditions which, apparently, are not always respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u55	Both speakers have far exceeded their speaking time. So I will ask them to be concise in their lines!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u56	Mr Thiéry, when you say that this is a reality that is not new, I invite you to look at the figures. This development is explosive, and that is precisely what is at stake. Madam Minister, you say that this is not possible because of the use of languages. This is not about the use of languages, it is about the professional attitude. A number of doctors or dentists coming from abroad are unable to speak in one of our national languages. They talk or speak approximately one of these languages, which is not acceptable to ensure the quality of care and the safety of patients. Secondly, you say that this is not possible because of Europe. I have here Directive 2013/55, which explicitly allows Member States to impose a language test on condition that it is for health professionals or in the field of safety. So, yes, it is possible, and Europe even encourages it. I mean, you've looked a lot out there. I'm sorry. There is not a single word on your part about the INAMI quotas which are imposed on our Belgians. It is not normal to continue to handicap our Belgians from the north and south of the country by favouring foreigners. It is not normal to organize the shortage with this air call. Madam Minister, we must review the quotas for INAMI numbers and stop penalizing our Belgians, who are trained with excellence in our medical schools.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u57	The answer to this problem is obviously part of a whole and the whole thing is to really dare to review the way in which we organize the regulation of the provision of care in our territory. The whole system needs to be changed. The quota system as it is thought is discriminating, vexatious and does not meet health care needs. Just two last figures given by the Planning Commission: 90% of foreign students who come to study, on the French side, remain and are present in Belgium, 50% of foreign students who come to study in Flanders also remain to practice here and receive quotas. And we are preventing young people from gaining access to medical education and practice. That is not the case, Madam Minister! You must dare to change!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. In fact, I don't think there's any need to reinvigorate a controversy. There's certainly a malaise, as a result of what Mrs. Fonck told you. There is clearly a situation that is penalizing some medical students in Belgium. On the other hand, this problem is not new. It was indeed the subject of a report in August 2016. We already had those numbers. I also note that the Ministers of Health of previous governments have not taken this issue into account. I would say that we are fortunate, Mr President, in an assembly like ours, to be able to put topical questions to ministers. What is sometimes surprising is that, in fact, one uses or provokes the news so that one can ask the minister a question. That's what happened today. That is regrettable!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u59	Mr President, Minister, yesterday we had an extensive and good discussion in the Committee on Social Affairs on the harmonization of diplomas. Apparently, there were some uncertainties in the press and social media afterwards, which I would like to see clarified. N-VA is strongly in favour of building up the supplementary pension system by equalising the purchase of academic years for civil servants, employees and self-employed persons. This is a question of clarity and justice and lies in the general direction of this government's approach to equalising social security systems. We also agree that the acquired rights of officials are respected and that they will also be given the opportunity, during a transitional period of three years, to buy off their academic years on slightly more favourable terms than the other groups. That too is a question of justice. Structural pension changes always require transitional periods. For those groups in which the system of diploma certificates remains unchanged or is even extended, the price of the surrender of the diploma must be up to date correct. According to N-VA, the aim cannot be to make ageing costs explode in the long term through short-term measures that will generate some money for the Treasury. This is unfair to the young generation and will further increase the pressure on pensions. Mr Minister, can you shed some light on these transitional measures? Who is this use for? The most important question is whether you can confirm in general that the government will ensure in the further development of these measures that this dossier does not lead to budgetary slippages that will generate additional financial burdens for future generations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u60	Mr President, Minister, yesterday we discussed the sale of academic years. It is, of course, part of the reform train that this government has put in place in the area of pensions. One of the major anomalies that still exist today is the difference between pension systems. A self-employed person has an average pension of 500 euros in our country, an employee on average 1 000 euros and an official on average 2 350 euros. By harmonizing the system of paying off years of study, you are finally putting that system on the same footing. And that's what's needed. You make it possible for people to be entitled to a higher pension, by purchasing years of study, which is higher than several hundred euros per year. You strengthen the legal pension for the benefit of everyone. At the same time, Minister, you are also ensuring greater solidarity between the systems. After all, you are now asking the officials to pay for this buy-back, while employees and self-employed people will receive more pensions. In other words, you provide a shift, a solidarity between civil servants on the one hand and employees and self-employed on the other. In short, officials will have to pay more and employees and self-employed will get more. This is a good thing to promote solidarity between the systems. However, Minister, our group also believes it is important that the reform that you are implementing is sustainable in the long term and that what the budget is getting now will not in the long term be a burden on our pension fund. That is why I would like to ask you the following. Firstly, are you prepared to have the long-term effects of your measure calculated by the Supreme Court of Finance? Secondly, when will you submit your bill to Parliament and come to our committee with it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u61	Mr President, in reply to the questions put, I think it is important to clarify the following points. In the pension system of the civil servants, consideration is given to the years of study free of charge and automatic. This means that the costs are currently fully borne by the State's budget. The reform proposes to put an end to this free-of-charge and to allow the official to pay, if he so requests, a regularisation contribution so that his diploma is taken into account for the calculation of his pension, as is already the case for the employees and the self-employed. The reform of the civil servants' system can therefore only have a positive budgetary impact. The contribution amounts to EUR 1 500 during the first ten years following the end of the study. This is then calculated on actuarial basis so that the contribution increases as the career progresses. However, a transitional measure provides that, for a period of three years from the entry into force of the new provisions, officials will be able to regularise their study years by paying a contribution of 1 500, even after the ten-year period following the studies. The profitability of this measure is estimated at 25,3 million euros for 2017 and 25,6 million euros for 2018, the return being mainly based on regularisation contributions. In the system of employees, the years of study are already taken into account only for the calculation of pensions, provided that the payment of a regularisation contribution of EUR 1 415.32 per year of study is made. That is the situation today. However, this possibility is only granted during the first 10 years of career and is used only by 0.4% of men and 0.1 percent of women. In order to achieve a harmonisation between the three systems, the government has decided that, for a period of three years, from 1 March 2017 to 1 March 2020, I quote: "Outgoing workers' can still regularise their study years for a lump sum of EUR 1 500 per academic year, even if regularisation takes place after more than ten years after the end of the study. That's the government's decision. This measure generates a net return of 41 million euros in 2017, 36 million euros in 2018 and six million euros in 2019. In 2020, it generates a cost of EUR 5 million, a cost of EUR 7 million in 2021 and a cost of EUR 7.5 million in 2022. Building rights linked to the regularisation of workers during the transitional period will be limited to a period of three years. This implies a stabilisation of the cost after 2022. Mr Spoorten, I can indeed confirm that the reduction in the regularisation contribution during the transitional period applies only to civil servants, not to self-employed persons or employees. If we look at the impact on the whole of the three systems, we can therefore conclude that the reform, which achieves a harmonisation of rights in the three systems, will allow a budgetary saving that will increase over the coming years. Mr Van Quickenborne, in the context of her annual report, the Study Committee on Ageing, which depends on the Supreme Court of Finance, takes into account all the new measures adopted to assess their impact on the budgetary costs of ageing populations. In early 2017, I will come to Parliament with this, as the reform of the Diploma Certificate should enter into force on 1 March 2017. In order to continue the harmonization of the systems, I shall end the preferential tantiemes which apply to the public sector in the context of taking account of the gravity of the professions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u62	Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a government response cannot exceed two minutes. Yours lasted seven minutes! You had gone into a technical exercise, but an answer must last up to two minutes, not seven!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is a very technical and complex issue, but I am glad to see from your answer that we will not end up in fiscal derailments in the pension system in the long term either. The good points of the reform of the pension system will be achieved. I would suggest that you make very precise calculations, not only for the short term until 2022, but also for the long term, to ensure that the systems do not derail, because that would be unacceptable to the younger generation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u64	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. If I add the figures up to 2022, the operation will provide a bonus of EUR 64 million. In other words, she's not threatening the State Treasury. In the long term, you indeed promise to have the impact calculated permanently by the Supreme Court of Finance. I think it is a very good measure. We are calling for an effort from our officials. We ask them to pay for an advantage from now on. Part of the proceeds from the measure go to the employees and the self-employed in order to strengthen their pension. That is solidarity between the systems, that is harmonisation of our pension systems, and that is what is needed. Staff pensions have been taboo for a long time. You're doing something about it as a minister. I should like to congratulate you on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u65	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for the past few days there have been cases of avian influenza in our neighbouring countries. The poultry sector is an important sector. For many, the holding of poultry is a daily reality, both in our countryside and in our cities. I even heard that at the French Ministry of the Interior, there would be five chickens. The current H5N8 strain is recognized as dangerous for poultry, with a high mortality rate. Last I heard, she'd be harmless to the man. The situation is all the more critical in the current circumstances as we are in the midst of a period of migration. This only worsens the situation. At present, our country is not affected. But some experts expect our country to be hit in the near future. It should be recalled that under the present circumstances, according to what I have read, there is no risk to man. Minister, can you confirm to me that there are still no proven cases in Belgium? What measures are currently being taken in terms of prevention? What additional measures will be taken if there is a case in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u66	Minister, there is no avian flu in our country yet, but we are not far from it. A number of findings were made in November, including in France at the end of November, only 50 kilometres from our border. The avian flu virus is getting very close. One report after another will reach us. You have forced all poultry farms in our country to keep their poultry in or to protect them with nets, because the H5N8 bird flu virus is highly contagious. These measures do not apply to individuals, but you have advised them to respond to that call. The virus is indeed not contagious for humans, but for poultry it is really harmful. Many birds die when they come into contact with infected birds. In November 2014, you introduced a retention obligation. Early last year, when no outbreaks were detected, they were removed. In the meantime, measures have been taken in the Netherlands, including the introduction of a restriction on the movement of commercial poultry, the development of various shelters and the imposition of a ban on transport. Minister, will you take additional measures if the disease reaches our country? What are your views on a trade ban if, in the worst case scenario, let us hope that this does not happen and that there is a risk that contaminated products will be imported into our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u67	Thank you, colleagues. We are faced with difficult conditions regarding the avian influenza virus. In October, the H5N8 virus re-emerged in Europe. As you know, it is spread by migratory birds, particularly by waterbirds on their way or migrating to the south. Of course, like the food agency, I follow the situation closely. What was the state of play on Wednesday? No case of avian influenza has yet been identified in Belgium. That's the good news. In the countries where companies are affected, namely the Netherlands, France, Germany, Poland, Austria, Sweden, Finland, Denmark and Hungary, there is a slow but positive trend. In fact, no new fireplace has been established in recent days, with an exception in Hungary. The provisions which have been adopted in Belgium require confinement on professional holdings. As far as amateurs are concerned, they impose feeding on the inside. Finally, they impose a wide range of transport and biosecurity measures. As you can see, our entire country is almost surrounded by avian influenza. In France, there are several dozen cases. As far as we are concerned, thanks to all these measures, we have been spared so far. It is very clear that if a case were to be detected in us, steps would be taken gradually with the prohibition of any gathering, the confinement of all animals regardless of the activity of the person holding them, additional biosecurity and transport-related measures. I also asked for controls to be exercised. If we were to detect a case in a professional exploitation, additional measures with protected areas would be taken. Anyway, for the moment, thanks to the professionals – again this morning, I was visiting a poultry slaughterhouse – and to the Agency – I would like to thank them all for this – and also thanks to the monitoring of the measures and the situation, we are not affected by this virus which, I remind you, concerns only poultry. Even if it is very contagious to birds, it is harmless to humans.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u68	Minister, thank you for reassuring us by indicating positive developments in some countries and a follow-up on this issue. In any case, I have no doubt that the professionals around us are perfectly capable of managing the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u69	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your explanation. We can be cautiously positive. We say careful, because the virus is spread by overflying birds, something that we simply cannot control. One point that we need to focus on is that we do not cause panic among the population. People need to know that the virus is not dangerous to humans and that there is no danger to the consumption of our poultry meat. We must inform the public sufficiently. We also hope that the preventive measures taken will be sufficient. Let us hope that a trade ban will only come about if it is really necessary. An epidemic is accompanied by huge income losses for our poultry farmers. I hope with you that we can spare them that loss.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u70	Madam Secretary, this is, as it were, our weekly appointment. I thought it strange that you were not here yet, because we have the habit of asking you questions on Thursday. Madam Secretary, why do we keep asking these questions again and again? Because it is clear once again that you are the nuclear minister, not energy. There was the extension of Objective 1 and Objective 2, there was the gift of 700 million to Electrabel by not collecting or reducing nuclear interest rates. This week, we also had a discussion on the same nuclear interest rate, which showed that the excess profit for 2015 will not or will hardly be skimmed. Each time you defend yourself by saying that you need that interest for the budget. Just a few moments ago, you accused Parliament of asking questions. You actually accused Parliament of doing its job. You said you needed the nuclear interest rate for the budget but also for the energy transition. You're going to put that in a fund that will pay for the energy transition. What does it turn out to be, Madam Secretary? The legal framework for that fund was adopted in June 2015. I repeat: 2015. The nuclear interest rate for Objective 1 and Objective 2 was paid by Electrabel in June 2016. It is now December 2016, and the energy transition fund is still not there. That is to say, Madam Minister, that you cannot spend that money on alternative energy. Not only us, the opposition, but also the majority parties are really starting to get on their feet. Mrs Dierick was still kind when she talked about forgetfulness, but Mr Lachaert said this morning that there was a big problem. We do indeed have a major problem, Madam Minister. I'll ask you three questions. First of all, where did the $20 million go? Those funds had to come into the energy transition fund, but the royal decision to do so is not yet there. So, the energy transition fund is just not there yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u71	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u72	Is it there, Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u73	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u74	Ask your second question, Mrs. Temmerman.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u75	Secondly, when will you present the royal decision to Parliament, Madam Secretary? Thirdly, how will you be able to recover the EUR 20 million for 2016 for the energy transition that you seem to be so strongly in favour of next year, after all?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u76	Minister, the PTB had voted against Doel 1 and 2's extension law, because extending these old power plants is above all a danger and our foreign neighbours remind us of it. We voted against because the argument of the risk of shortage did not stand, because the aim of this operation was the sustainable development of the profits of Electrabel/Engie and, finally, because there was a ridiculous contribution of 20 million euros. What are we learning today? That this €20 million was actually included in the 2016 budget and then in the 2017 budget. We have 40 million euros sleeping in the energy transition fund under programme 32/42/9. You're telling us there's no order to activate this fund. When we look at the justification of the general energy expenditure budget, we do see that the objective pursued by the programme and the means implemented for the energy transition, in thousands of euros: 2015, zero! 2016, zero! 2017, zero! 2018, zero! 2019, zero! 2020, zero! Madam Minister, your energy transition policy is therefore null and void, in the mathematical sense of the term. My question is simple: why are you so dynamic to give gifts to Electrabel and also passive to implement the energy transition?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u77	Mr Van Hees, I will start with you because I see that you are reading the documents before you. You answer by reading the first two questions from at least your colleague, Mrs Temmerman. Indeed, this fund exists. She said it earlier. It was created by the 2015 Act. The first 20 million that were paid by Electrabel and that were the first to feed this fund were paid under legislation that we voted in June 2016. They were paid into this fund on July 18, 2016, by Electrabel. Electrabel will pay 20 million for ten years, which will make a total of 200 million euros for the energy transition until 2026. But be careful, the energy transition is not only based on these forces, since the fund, as you know, is dedicated to specific functions: innovative energy production, storage and demand management, which are means of adequacy and flexibility. A royal decree must therefore effectively organise the conditions for eligibility so that projects can be selected and financed from this fund and for the organisation of this fund. This can only be done – this royal decree is in the process of being finalized – when all the legislation – you know it very well and you object enough to know it well – will be adopted here in December. We have again spoken about the last text, which is to launch, for the next ten years, the contribution of nuclear distribution. This royal decree will make it possible to operate this fund and to see if there are any projects that fall within the criteria established by law in 2015 and 2016, to be eligible for this fund. The energy transition is also the offshore as you well know. This government has been working on the offshore. He's reduced support on the offshore. Today, the European Commission has stated, after a very long examination of the Belgian offshore case, which has had to be notified not only for the legislation of the previous government but for the current one, that the Belgian offshore plan, with all the modifications we have introduced to reduce support, is in full compliance with the rules of European competition. That too is energy transition! The government has also taken measures on Friday to provide that we will open up to all forms of storage and to all forms of demand management, innovative projects in this area. That too is energy transition! So this government is working hard on the energy transition, concretely, on a day-to-day basis, with the political means at its disposal and the financial means that come from the extension of nuclear power!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u78	Madam Secretary, this is unbelievable. You say you're busy. That law was passed a year and a half ago, ma'am! Now you say you're busy and you'll hurry. There's still no KB. I asked you when that KB was gonna get there. There's still no KB. So you cannot use the money that is currently available, which has indeed been deposited by Electrabel for Objective 1 and Objective 2. You're not answering the question. You say you're doing this and you're doing it, but you're not actually doing anything. All you do is prove once again that you are Minister of Nuclear Energy, not of Energy and certainly not of Energy Transition!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u79	Madam Minister, I note that you did not answer my colleague's question about the date on which the Royal Order was finalized. The most incredible thing is that you would tell the press that he was going to be in the air of: "Just fine, I had the pen in my hand and I was ready to sign it." The string is a little big, minister! With you, Electrabel has already obtained the extension of nuclear power and taxes that have never been as low as this year. In particular, I refer you to the very interesting graph published by Le Soir. Not only does Electrabel dictate the laws, but it also imposes its deadlines on parliamentary work and the energy transition that is returned to the Greek calends. This makes it easier for this company to continue to impose its energy model, which brings it a maximum of "wheat", with all the inherent dangers. It is well known that you have little interest in the energy transition. If you went to Marrakech, it was only because of the European Union, not because of your policy. Minister, the climate and our country deserve better than this militant passivity. The energy transition needs energy!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u80	Mr President, Minister, there is some concern about the forthcoming approval by the European Parliament of the fourth railway package, which must lead to the creation of a European railway area. On its website, the European Commission explains in a rather pedagogic way how users will be affected by the fourth railway package. I quote: "Individuals will benefit from more efficient, user-friendly and cost-effective rail transport. The mobility opportunities available to them will be improved in terms of train frequency and quality of service. Individuals should also benefit from new business models such as low-cost rail services, which will allow more people to travel at affordable prices." Allow me to share with you, Minister, some scepticism about the likely reduction in rates and low-cost rail services. I will be very clear: what matters today for travellers, in view of the petitions that flourish on social networks, is the quality of public service and, in particular, punctuality. We've talked a lot about it in the press lately. Rail punctuality must in fact be seen as a vector of respect for public service for passengers and not as an instrument for measuring commercial profitability for the benefit of SNCB and the remuneration of its managers. I will not display references to the reciprocal responsibilities between SNCB and Infrabel, which demonstrate the incongruity of the separation of service provider and system manager. In the current situation, it is therefore the performance as a public service that needs to be sought. Mr Minister, in the probable event of the approval of the fourth railway package, what will be the procedure used internally at Belgian level for its implementation? What will be the guarantees of maintaining a public service, including quality and maintained infrastructure? What should be expected of travellers and SNCB staff, particularly in terms of job retention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u81	Mr President, Mrs Caprasse, the fourth railway package was proposed by the European Commission in 2013. It aims to remove the remaining obstacles to the creation of a single European railway area through the implementation of structural and technical reforms to increase safety, interoperability, quality of service and reliability. In short, it is a matter of creating a more open rail sector at European level, competitive with other modes of transport and efficient in its quality. It should be recalled that the aspect relating to public service obligations provides, for its part, that the principle of awarding public service contracts is the invitation to tender, from 2023 onwards. However, exceptions have been made and this government has argued in this direction before the final adoption of the fourth railway package in the near future. The direct award of public service contracts to incumbent operators such as SNCB will always be possible, subject to compliance with a performance improvement scheme. Thus, under the supervision of the European Commission's Directorate-General MOVE, it will be up to the States to determine the objectives which the public undertaking will have to fulfil in the performance of its task; to check at regular intervals the proper performance and to impose, where appropriate, dissuasive sanctions on undertakings, in order to put the public service operator back on the right track. The development of new management contracts follows this pattern, and it is for this, but not only, that the current development of management contracts takes time. Let me remind you that we haven't had one since 2012. The latest version of the fourth railway package states that "the request to SNCB to improve performance has been expressed with the wish and intention of the State to continue to assign the public service mission directly to SNCB from 2023 for a maximum duration of 10 years". With regard to the rest, pricing, efficiency, the volume of employment, all is to find a balance to maintain this performance. And if it is not achieved, we will fall under the draconian conditions of the obligation to open up to competition, to other operators, from the moment we have not seen any improvement in performance in the broad sense (security, punctuality, efficiency, quality/price ratio, etc.).). This is therefore a formidable challenge for all public service railway companies. It is for this reason that they spoke very recently here in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u82	Minister, thank you for your answers. Indeed, there must be a proper balance between competition and safety, the working conditions of our railway workers and the rights of all consumers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u83	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u84	Mr Van Hees, we must first ask for the floor and I must give it. In a democracy, that's how it works! You are not registered, so there is no reason for you to intervene on the order of business now. The order of business will be dealt with in due course. For now, these are the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u85	I'm surprised!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u86	Be surprised but let us respect the rules of the game! I respect the Rules of Procedure scrupulously and so it will be!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u87	Mr. Francken, I must confess that I hesitated to ask the Prime Minister my question as to whether you were above the law. Recently, in this same rostrum, I asked you about your refusal to issue a humanitarian visa to a Syrian couple and their two children, despite the Belgian state being condemned. Since then, other judgments have taken place, but you are obstinate! You keep yourself in your purely ideological posture! Even yesterday, the Court of Appeal upheld this decision. So it's already three times that the government is being condemned in this case! So, Mr. Franken, how long is this going to last? Neither the government nor the Foreign Office nor you are above the law. It is no longer only in a humanitarian scandal that your blindness plunges the country today, but it is a serious signal that you are sending to the population today; not that of a xenophobic secretary of state, who is applying his policy of withdrawal without any discernment. No! It is that of a government that discredits the judicial system, that of a government that sits on three judicial decisions that all go in the same direction. So, Mr Franken, would you like to provide this Parliament with copies of the various court decisions that condemn the Belgian State in this matter? Will you finally comply with his decisions and issue these visas or do you expect tomorrow to have to issue permits to bury this couple and their two young children?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u88	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, first I would like to raise the facts. A Syrian family with two underage children from Aleppo asks for a humanitarian visa. On 20 October, after a legal battle, the Council for Foreigners decides that that family is entitled to a visa. You're appealing that. Yesterday, the Brussels Court of Appeal condemned the Belgian State to comply with the judgment of the Council of Foreign Ministers. Certain court decisions and fines do not like people, just think of the many decisions people get to leave the country. However, those who are given a decision must comply with it, with or against their will, whether they are citizens, State Secretary or minister. That is the basis of the rule of law, in which laws and rules must be respected. Judging differently means measuring with two sizes and two weights. The federal government has an exemplary role, especially today. Mr Secretary of State, you have newcomers sign a newcomer's declaration which explicitly explains that we believe that the separation of powers is one of the basic principles in our society. Mr Secretary of State, that applies not only to newcomers, but also to you. I would like to add the following. You may disagree with a decision as executive power, and I can even understand that. You can still challenge that decision by means of a cassation appeal, which you are likely to do. You can also find a majority to change the regulations and laws that you do not actually agree to, without having to spend taxpayers' money on processes and periodic penalty payments. I have already made suggestions here in a previous speech, for example the solution that Canada has chosen. So, Mr Secretary of State, stop communicating like an over-the-counter, spoiled teenager, claiming that the judges are against you and that you will stop those tens of millions of humanitarian visas. That's daddy and wet. That's not solving anything. Mr Secretary of State, I have two questions. First of all, what will you do now? Secondly, how will you really find a solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u89	Mr Secretary of State, this is really not about a beautiful spectacle. In the meantime, there are three judgments of judges who are wrong to you. A Secretary of State must also respect the rule of law. I would ask you to stop with the polemics and the stubbornness. This isn't about thousands of people. You have a chance here to save one family from the war horror of Aleppo. So I ask you to seize that opportunity. At the same time, I want to understand you. I want to know why you are so stubbornly refusing to issue that humanitarian visa. What's stopping you? Does the judge consider that, in future, everyone should be granted such a humanitarian visa if it is applied for? No, he doesn't. The judge examined the individual case here and considered that protection is necessary. Will that cost the state money? No, it won't. There are people in Namur who have been found willing to take on refugees from Syria. Mr Secretary of State, what will cost the taxpayer is your stubborn refusal to execute the judgment. That stubborn refusal has an invoice of 4,000 euros a day. I fully understand that people want to escape hell and the horror of war in Aleppo. That's normal, you and I would probably do the same. The way in which you managed the visa question and actually the whole file only leads to losers. There are three losers here: our image abroad, the rule of law and the family in question. Stop that. Save that family. Your stubborn refusal to do so bears witness to complete irrationality.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u90	Mr Secretary of State, the facts are well known. We heard this morning that the court of appeal still condemns you to pay a penalty payment of EUR 1 000 per person per day to the Syrian family who applied for a visa to apply for asylum in Belgium. Indeed, we were here a few weeks ago, and you said that you would stand firm and not issue a visa. The question of that family is unfounded. It's legal-technical, I know, but the non-refoulement principle doesn't work in two directions. What is more, the opposition is saying that you must be exemplary, Mrs De Coninck, you are refusing to set a precedent that calls into question the whole of asylum policy, which undermines asylum policy worldwide. Embassies would thus become a legal place to apply for asylum, and that is not legal: asylum is applied for in the country where they want it. In the meantime, Mr Secretary of State, there are a lot of courts that are already considering and expressing their views on the issue, on who is and who is not competent, on who is and who is not allowed to decide, while the legal ping-pong game is not really necessary, because I sum up Article 9a of the Foreigner's Act: you are competent. You have the discretion to issue a humanitarian visa or not. I think, with my modest legal knowledge, that you are obliged to do so by means of a periodic penalty payment is actually a very incorrect means of exerting pressure. I would like to say one more thing, Mr President. Mr Secretary of State, the opposition almost makes you responsible for the fate and safety of this family. With all due respect, I would like to stress that this is not the case. This family has the opportunity, also has its own responsibility, to choose another solution. Our party, there are still within the majority of people who insist on the principle of reception in the region. This family can choose that, too. They shouldn't make you responsible for the fate of that one family. I have a clear question for the Secretary of State. You're gonna pay the penalty, you're gonna hand out that visa?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u91	Mr Secretary of State, is the Belgian Constitution applicable in the United States? I'll answer it myself, because I know you'll think this is a trick question if she comes from me. The answer to that is no. That's also very good for the Americans. What would they do with our constitution? Then you must explain to me, Mr De Vriendt and others, how the ECHR could apply in Lebanon and Syria? Obviously, that's not the case. Then you should also explain to me which citizens Belgium should guarantee the rights of the ECHR. What does Article 1 say? To all those under Belgian jurisdiction. Is it enough to apply for a humanitarian visa in Beirut to be subject to that Belgian jurisdiction? No, not at all. The case law is particularly clear on this point. It is said that this is a matter of jurisdiction only if the applicant is under the authority or control of a diplomatic or a consular agent. These concepts of authority and control are crucial. Is there authority and control at the time when a humanitarian visa is applied for? No, there isn't. This is about justice of the Grand Chamber, that's what it's about. It is also a good thing that there is this case law, because otherwise we will have a very serious problem, because we will have a country without borders. Mr De Vriendt, this is not an individual case. It's not about that. It concerns hundreds of thousands of individual cases, with people in the same circumstances. Then anyone in the war zone will be able to apply for a humanitarian visa and come to Belgium to apply for asylum. That is not the intention of the ECHR. What does Strasbourg say in a clear case law? The ECHR is an instrument of the European public order, not of the world order. That is the case law of Strasbourg and nothing else. Mr Secretary of State, was that argument put forward for the Council of Foreign Ministers? I didn't find it in the arrest. Was that argument relied on in the cassation before the Council of State? What will you do with the court of appeal? Are you going to make a cassation provision there, at the Court of Cassation this time? I think so. What are you going to do, issue a visa, pay periodic penalty payments or do something else? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u92	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday a Chamber of the Court of Appeal in Brussels delivered a judgment different from that of the first instance judge and imposed a penalty payment of EUR 4 000 per day in the event of a non-issuance of a visa to a Syrian family. I will be clear immediately: that visa will not be delivered. Due to several urgent reasons of general interest, there is opposition to this. As I explained earlier in this Chamber, it would create a very dangerous precedent which would lead us to give up control over our borders. After all, nowhere in the world can a stranger enforce a short-stay visa to apply for asylum before a judge. Nowhere. Following the first judgment, eight additional applications were immediately made at our Consulate in Beirut, after the penalty sentence was discussed in the local press. Allowing the visa threatens to trigger a rush at our consulates in Beirut and Ankara, which I fit in with. An equally important reason not to issue the visa is that our appeal to the Council of State on the ground of the case would lapse. As you know, I have appealed to the Council of State against the judgment of the Council of Foreigners in which I was instructed to issue a visa. Yes, Mr Vuye, we have also clearly invoked the case law relating to Article 3 of the ECHR, to which you refer. I am doing this in full confidence of a successful outcome, since the judgment in question is a clear case of over-exercise of competence and, moreover, it wrongly gives extraterritorial effect to the ECHR, the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights. If we issue the visa, our interest in our appeal to the Council of State will cease and the judgment of the Council of Foreign Ministers will remain valid, which is or cannot be an option at all. Our hanging profession is too important. Therefore, I will not grant the visa until the Council of State has been able to decide on the substance of the matter. With regard to the recent penalty judgment of the Brussels Appeals Court, I can inform you that I will take the necessary steps to register cassation. A meeting with lawyers in my cabinet this morning provided enough arguments to make such an appeal with confidence. Also against the execution of the penalty payment there are still legal possibilities that I will exhaust fully and completely. This battle will last as long as it is necessary, namely until the Council of State ruling on the substance of the case. I would like to stress once again the importance of this profession. I therefore hope that the Council of State will give its opinion as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not about a single case, no matter what is said about it. That's not right. This is about the fundamental question of whether it is up to the administration, represented by a democratically elected government, or to a judge to decide on access to our territory. It is a basic principle of administrative law that a judge can never put himself in the place of the administration. Unfortunately, this has happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u93	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, this is not a question of policy, but of respect for the law. What is expected of every citizen, even if he or she is Secretary of State, even if he or she is a member of a government, is that he or she respects the law. In this case, there was not a court decision, but three. All require the issuance of these visas. And recourse to the Council of State is not suspensive. My group expects you to comply with these court decisions, as it could expect from any citizen. By hiding behind me, I don't know what the legal argument is, you train the entire government that will have to answer for your actions. With my group, we will question both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice about your attitude. Mr Franken, in this case, the only illegal one is you!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u94	Mr Secretary of State, your party also says: you are competent, you are the leader, you must decide. I note from your reaction that you have little respect for court rulings. I recommend that you use your leadership in a positive way and seek structural solutions for humanitarian visas.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u95	Mr Secretary of State, what are we talking about here? There are 60 million refugees worldwide. Of these, 95% are taken into account in the region. A humanitarian visa offers a safe route to those people so that Europe, including Belgium, can accept a little bit of solidarity. You're making every effort in the world to shift that responsibility. You're going into conflict with judges. You think you are above the law and above the rule of law. You are running your own personal image campaign here. That is the reality. It hasn't been about that family in a long time. You want to be the Secretary of State for the hard line. You are going very far there, if necessary on the hood of a family that wants to escape the horror of war in East Aleppo.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u96	Mr Secretary of State, the issue is becoming a legal gag, but one thing is absolutely certain: the reason for refusing this visa is well founded. You're just following the law. Your answer certainly reassures us. We hope that the Council of State, unlike the court of appeal yesterday, will respect the separation of powers and apply the law correctly, all the laws that Mr Vuye has quoted in full. Politics is supposed to respect the separation of powers, a very important and sacred principle. We demand equal respect from the judges. Mr Secretary of State, you were formal. You were principled. The judges must monitor the application of the law. That's their jurisdiction. Migration policy is your responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u97	Mr Secretary of State, everyone here knows that human rights are very important to Veerle Wouters and me. We have proved that this summer, much more than some people who have just applauded me. However, the ECHR is not the world order. It's not that. The ECHR is being abused here to try to achieve very left-wing, extreme left-wing ideas. That Progress Lawyers Network does to legal activism, that it does! It's his right. However, I am afraid that there is also a question of judicial activism in this case, and I very much regret that. After all, people do not accept the fact that one can just enter a country on the basis of the ECHR and apply for asylum. It is not sold on the pavements, and rightly so, because it is not. That is why my small group is asking you very clearly not to issue this visa and to use the means of redress. They're not exhausted yet. You have the right to do so, like any citizen. Nor should you accept statements that are not final, as you are apparently accused here. You don't have to do that. The responsibility that now rests on your shoulders is also important. Belgium is already a failed state. If this case goes on, then we're just failing tout court.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u98	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u99	Submitted by the Senate Transmitted by the Senate
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u100	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Cheron, who refers to his written report. I have a request for assistance: Fräulein Jadin.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u101	Herr Präsident, danke. Selbst auf Deutsch gibt’s keine Fräulein mehr, sondern ist Frau wunderbar. Ich wollte ganz kurz intervenieren, um meine Genugtuung zu äußern zu den Debatten und den Möglichkeiten und vor allem zu der breite Unterstützung, die wir auch für diese Möglichkeit bekommen haben. Dieses Gesetz hat Bezug auf eine ganze kleine, beinah technische Korrektur, in dem wir ebenfalls auf Grund der konstitutive Autonomie der Deutschsprachige Gemeinschaft es erlauben Möglichkeiten vor zu sehen für ihre beratenden Mandataren. Das war ursprünglich nicht vorgesehen worden in der sechste Staatsreform und wird hier ausgeglichen. Wir freuen uns sehr darüber. Vielen Dank.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u102	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u103	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1987/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1987/1) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u104	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u105	Submitted by the Senate Transmitted by the Senate
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u106	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr. Van Biesen, who refers to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u107	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1988/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1988/1) The design of special law consists of 2 articles. The special bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u108	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u109	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mrs Thoron en mevrouw Lanjri.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u110	Mr President, may I refer to the written report?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u111	Avec plaisir, with pleasure! Two speakers were registered: Ms Thoron and Mr Daerden. They're both missing. I'll give them a few moments to join us. Otherwise, they will be removed from the list of speakers. I still ask you to try to follow up on the work, so that we didn't have to go get the people every time. In the absence of news from them, we are continuing the agenda. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u112	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2155/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2155/4) The draft law contains 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u113	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u114	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Catherine Fonck and Nahima Lanjri, referred to their written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u115	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will make a brief intervention to justify our group's forbearance on this bill with various health provisions. It is a draft containing extremely technical measures for which, unfortunately, we have not always had precise answers to the questions raised in committee. But I will start with a positive element, as the legal barriers to de-medicalized and decentralized HIV testing are now being removed. This screening, we've been calling it our vows for months. In fact, our group had tabled a resolution to that effect, a resolution finally supported by the whole committee and voted by our House last April. This was followed up quickly. We would like, Madam Minister, to pay tribute to this fact and to thank you for it. Although screening is fundamental, it is still insufficient or too late today, especially for men who have sex with other men, while the latest figures show an increase in contamination within this group. There are many reasons for this. Non-frequency of conventional screening structures, fear of stigmatization, or difficulty in communicating with care professionals about sexual orientation and sexual practices. An important step forward is to enable recognized associations and community workers to conduct decentralized and de-medicalized HIV/AIDS testing of particularly vulnerable target groups. Implementation orders will still have to be made. We will, of course, be careful, Madam Minister, to ensure that they do so as soon as possible. I would like to point out a second positive element, Madam Minister. It concerns the possibility of punishing health-care providers in the event of non-application of the compulsory fee-paying third party for the beneficiaries of the increased intervention. It is, of course, a good thing to properly regulate this measure. However, you will allow me to regret once again that this measure applies only to the benefits of general practitioners, and that chronic patients are always left out in this context. I would point out that today more than one million people are chronically ill and that they too should have been able to benefit from the automatic grant of the paying third party. That would have been the case if you had not come back to this decision taken in 2012 already. Yes, you persist, you sign. These people affected by the disease will not be relieved. They have recurrent and often high health costs. Allowing them not to advance the full amount of their consultation could, for many of them, be a real breath of oxygen, but you continue to deny it to them. On the other hand, you are going to raise the maximum to be billed, including the MAF for chronic patients, which will penalize them even more, but we will have the opportunity to discuss it more fully under the program law that you will present to us this Tuesday, December 13. Other elements of this important project also continue to ask questions for our group. In fact, in the law of 10 July 2008 on hospitals, you enter the obligation to provide care of similar quality regardless of the room chosen. We had, on several occasions, denounced these unacceptable practices of some doctors who refuse to perform interventions when patients do not choose to stay in a private room. However, I do not believe that the provision as it stands brings about a real change on the ground. You have also chosen to attach criminal sanctions to this provision, which seems to be a protective measure for patients, but in fact it may weaken this protection, as the burden of proof will now be reversed and it will now be up to the patient to prove that the doctor has not fulfilled his obligations, which seems practically impossible. With regard to the changes made to the health care budget, there are these changes in terms of timing and also those clarifications concerning the insurance committee's proposal that will have to meet the growth standard. But I also mention the budgetary framework, the multi-annual route and the political priorities for the new policy and the existing policy adjustments. Minister, the consultation is thus perfectly shrouded, perfectly locked up. This is actually the political decision you are imposing. There are also these changes to the composition of the Reimbursement Commission for Medicinal Products or to the "Article 81" agreements which may be concluded between INAMI and the pharmaceutical industry concerning the reimbursement of certain specialities. You will allow me to remain sceptical about the answers that you have deemed appropriate to give us in committee regarding the reasons for these changes. These answers seem to me, even after rereading the report, to be very untransparent. Speaking of transparency, I'm just coming to your famous Sunshine Act. More transparency in the functioning of the pharmaceutical industry vis-à-vis healthcare professionals is obviously a commendable objective. We have already said that, in the interests of patients. Each company will therefore be required to publish the premiums and benefits awarded to health professionals, health organizations and wholesalers and retailers. Good! But there are a number of issues, minister. Why did you allow an exemption for companies in the veterinary sector? Why should the management of these notifications be entrusted to a private organisation in the future, despite the comments of the Council of State? Why not give the AFMPS greater powers in terms of control, suspension and cancellation of the actions taken by that organisation in the context of the audit that the Agency can carry out? Why such investigative measures, namely the possibility of carrying out inspections, including on private premises, when the Council of State itself considers them unjustified and disproportionate in relation to the right to respect for the home and the right to privacy? All these questions unfortunately make this Sunshine Act much less luminous and less transparent. Two points to conclude, Minister. The first relates to the legislation on the supervision of medical devices. Home care continues to grow and we feel, like you, that it is essential to provide patients with the best protection in this area. Unfortunately, as we said in committee, what is being presented to us today does not seem to us to be successful. You set up a system of self-control where all the practical arrangements until the law comes into force remain to be defined. This blurry is incomprehensible to us if we are to ensure real quality and security of care for patients at home. Finally, I will not be long on this last point because we are not going to repeat the debate on your inaction and lack of will in the fight against tobacco and alcohol. You say, in this project, that it is necessary to bring the French and Dutch versions of the text into conformity with regard to tobacco advertising. We think we're dreaming! I will tell you again that we have ratified the WHO Framework Convention on Advertising. In doing so, you should have simply removed all tobacco advertising. Similarly, the issue was not to set the rules for the sealing of ATMs for tobacco or alcohol. You should have banned them outright. For all these reasons, my group will not support this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u116	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, according to Ecolo-Groen, the bill containing various provisions on health includes some positive measures that constitute a step forward. But why did you stop there? Why was such an accent given? In addition, this project also includes negative measures. Finally, it raises some doubts. As far as positive measures are concerned, the possibility of penalising a healthcare provider who fails to comply with the compulsory application of the paying third party is included in the legislation. Permission to remove legal barriers to the de-mediated HIV test is also a step forward. We've been waiting for him for a long time. And we know how much this will contribute to prevention in this area. We also welcome the faster modification of the MàF, on the basis of an individual's income, regardless of his or her social status, even though, unfortunately, income thresholds are changed during other provisions. We will come back to the matter later. Some measures are, a priori, progress, but, by looking more closely at them, we can see that they lack ambition or present contradictions. This is the case, in particular, with the provisions relating to the patient's free choice of room at the hospital. It is probably interesting to include in the law that every hospitalized patient must have access to care of the same quality regardless of his room. The difficulty is that it will be up to the patient to demonstrate that he did not have access to care of the same quality as if he had been in another room, where he would have paid for supplements at his expense. But above all, Madam Minister, this is again a way of not taking the necessary steps. It would be necessary to remove the possibility of fee supplements, to review the funding of hospitals – I know you are working on them – and to incorporate into this reform a harmonisation and capping of the remuneration of doctors in hospital structures. Some health care professionals are paid on unacceptable scales because there are shortages, because hospitals do not, or do not, have the ability to say no to the stated requirements. It is, of course, the patient and the whole system of solidarity for health that suffers and must bear it. Publication of value transfers – I love this expression – when a health care professional receives something from pharmaceutical companies. That's a good thing, and we support you on that. In committee, we asked you and Minister Borsus. I would like to take advantage of this because it is here: why should the veterinary sector be allowed a period of one year? None of you could answer. What are the arguments? You told me the veterinarians say they're not ready. That was your only answer. Today, could you tell us in detail what can justify that veterinarians and veterinary pharmaceutical industries, which are organized in the same way as others, cannot be ready at the same time as others? The amendment is simply to make public the fact that a veterinarian has received a gift or benefit from a firm, in the same way as a health care provider. This is a positive step, but why don't we go further? A year is huge. Conflicts of interest involving members of advisory or decision-making bodies, where they are obviously not representatives of a sector, must be published. Again, this is a good measure. But what if the conflict of interest has not been declared and the opinion has been given or the decision taken? They will be recognized as valid, even if the duty of publication has not been respected. On the one hand, you're talking about obligations, but on the other hand, you're suggesting that if it's not honoured, it's no big deal. How to punish an advisory body, if not by telling it that its decision is overturned since the duty to publish has not been fulfilled. I come to the negative aspects. You are making arrangements under the pact you have entered into with the pharmaceutical industry. You add the option of using the Article 81 Convention, which concerns medicinal products which the Reimbursement Commission refuses to take over on the grounds that they are not sufficiently innovative, that they present a risk or that they pose budgetary problems. However, this convention consists of a one-on-one agreement between your firm and the pharmaceutical industry. Together with my colleague Anne Dedry, I took the opportunity to table an amendment which deletes a provision adopted last June. The purpose of the study was to enhance the confidentiality of price and cost structure data contained in the files filed by pharmaceutical companies. The conclusion of the text adopted by the House last June is that studies to assess the effectiveness of the Article 81 mechanism cannot be carried out. The amendment was intended to remove this advantage and over-protection of confidentiality and non-transparency of data. This amendment was rejected. We deeply regret that. Indeed, as much as one can imagine and give the possibility to drug producers to test some of them and to imagine temporary elements and phases, this can only be possible through genuine transparency and a genuine policy aimed at lowering prices in order to promote access to medicines. The other negative element is alcohol and tobacco. There's no provision! I thought I dreamed when I saw that the tobacco provision was to decide between the word "poster" and the word "poster" to determine the most appropriate term on tobacco advertisements, while all asked for the deletion of that advertisement. I will not extend, since we agreed to come back to the matter in the Committee on Health in January, on the basis of the texts tabled, in addition to the plan and the provisions that you have already made, but which are clearly insufficient. As I have told you in committee, I have been relatively struck by the fact that there is no scientific evidence to suggest that selling alcohol to minors, like tobacco, has no health consequences, while all the studies I am conducting show an opposite effect. The difficulty with alcohol is that your concern is to fight against the abuse of alcohol, and of course we all share this concern, but you refuse to touch on, or even address, the problem of alcohol consumption which, in terms of health, raises questions. It is therefore not a question of banning alcohol to anyone and at any time, but in health policy, the overall objective must be to reduce alcohol consumption even if it does not present problems. I have some doubts about the follow-up and some of the arrangements made in the Commission for the reimbursement of medicinal products. I find it fascinating that the text you are proposing mentions an increase of seven to eight in the number of members representing the academies. The number of our university hospitals is seven. However, there are eight other members of the Commission. Therefore, this will allow equality and fairness of representation. We can agree, but how are we going to do it since there are seven university hospitals? After asking you two or three times, you tell us that your intention is to allow a representative of a foreign hospital or university to come. I think it would have been interesting to declare it from the start just as you think it is because it is a misguided way of presenting a provision. I confess that I did not have time to read the report of the Committee on Social Affairs, but as regards the subsidiary contribution, when there is an overrun of the budget for pharmaceutical companies as compensatory contributions, you are transforming a contribution scheme, with a maximum of EUR 100 000 over the year, into 2.5% of turnover. I think this is a good measure and it will increase the amount that comes back. Is it possible to assess what this can represent? Finally, there is one last element on which I spoke in committee. This goes beyond the scope of the Various Provisions Act. It completes him. I want to draw your attention to extra-hospital care and how they will organize themselves in terms of responsibility, supervision and control by the patient and his family. In the bill that you have submitted to us, you are installing devices that empower distributors and installers of medical devices, which is a good thing. But I stress the need to think with patients, hospital providers and outpatients about how to proceed so that the patient and his family can master the organisation of care, can act with regard to these producers and installers of medical devices, can ensure that there is cooperation and cooperation between the hospital actors, who become extra-hospitals, and outpatients, who become complementary. Indeed, I am very afraid that some families and patients will eventually be deprived of all this care which becomes complicated to coordinate, even if the aim is to work in multidisciplinary teams, etc. There is special attention to be paid to this. Finally, on the budget, the composition of the health care budget - we will return to it in the context of the programme law and the budgetary discussions - I believe that the change in the timetable contains positive provisions which allow the data to be given early enough to give opinions, even if these opinions must be given earlier in order to meet the requirements of the European Semester. On the other hand, I believe that in the composition of the budget, linking part of this budget to compliance with a whole series of rules on austerity and economic policies that are to be carried out in the health care sector, but also in the social security sector in a comprehensive manner, is risky, if the aim is to meet the changing needs. As you know, all existing studies say that the budget needs to grow by 2.2%. You told us 1.5%, and in fact it will be 0.5% in 2017. It is therefore difficult to believe that changing needs and population trends can be taken into account. For all these reasons, Mr President, we will not vote against the draft because we want to support the positive elements that I have mentioned, but we cannot vote for either, for all the negative elements that I have also mentioned and that are important. Our group will therefore abstain on this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u117	I will intervene quickly because most of the points were raised during the committee. The debate is interesting. I would also like to thank the chairman of the committee for letting everyone speak in the right time. This has allowed us to have an extremely constructive debate. Of course, we know that we can never agree on the various measures taken. We can always go further. I think I had finished my speech in committee with these words. However, my group congratulates you on the work already done. We will, of course, be very careful to ensure that everything is achieved. I would like to stress four points very quickly. Indeed, they were a will of our group. The first is the social status of independent home nurses. The sector had made a clear demand for some time now. A royal decree remains to be issued in order to be able to implement this statute officially, but this decision seems to us to be extremely important. Secondly, my colleague Senesael had mentioned this, and I will mention everything that concerns decentralized and de-mediated testing. Ultimately, this decision is primarily a response to the industry's difficulties. This area is therefore a real step forward. I think collaboration with the federated entities will also be very important. Finally, some of the competencies will fall within their purview. However, I know, Madam Minister, following a discussion we have had, that you are trying to do everything possible to carry out constructive work with the federated entities. Finally, the Sunshine Act, which has already been cited, allows for greater transparency in relation to the pharmaceutical sector's manoeuvres. It is very good to have transparency. I also agree with the sector itself's willingness to be aware of what is happening at home. One last point: the alcohol approach. I have heard Mrs Gerkens' remarks on alcohol and tobacco. I want to say that we can always go further. In the meantime, I note in the decision a provision that will prohibit people under the age of 16 from buying alcohol in large areas. It'll be 18 years for spirits. There is also a willingness to strengthen controls. They will also enable direct action to be taken with the children or young people concerned. This is a constructive step. It will probably not be enough, but in any case, minister, I will end by thanking you again for the work you are doing, and hoping that we can go further, in a positive and constructive way with the opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u118	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to go back to all the points since, like any good law with various provisions, it is a melting pot and, if we were to make a report here on the various points, it could take a long time. First of all, let me regret that we have made a law with various provisions with a whole series of aspects that would have clearly deserved our own laws. In this way, it would have been possible, above all, to do things with a much greater ambition and with a much greater efficiency. Again, I'm not going to quote everything. I simply come back positively on two points, on which I would like to make a small comment. First, a very positive first step is the extra-medical screening of the AIDS virus with AIDS self-tests. The doctors themselves – many of them told me – were largely in favour of it. I stress here the importance of accompaniment, since it is a self-test. It would be particularly unfortunate if such accompaniment took place only in case of positive screening, where it was obviously necessary to accompany the patient and avoid transmission to other people. This support must also be provided in case of negative screening, since with these self-tests you can have a false negative. The potential risk and the need to complete this test with a conventional blood test must be well assessed. This accompaniment, beyond self-test, seems crucial to me. Another positive measure concerns the social status of nurses. It's a little half in half. Minister, you and the government have decided to cut the indexing of home nurses' fees. Can I recall how much home care nurses' incomes are anything but high incomes? May I recall that the calculations of a wide range of experts have shown that home nurses have lost 7% to 8% of purchasing power in recent years? You know that with the cut in the indexing of fees and restrictions on midwives, the home nursing sector is being undermined. On the other hand – disappointment exposing at least one thousand! – you missed the opportunity with regard to tobacco and alcohol. It is deplorable that we cannot, together, make progress on these issues, which, however, require courageous measures that, in the medium term, could be beneficial, both to patients – I must not demonstrate the health impacts – and to the state budget. Is it necessary to recall here the cost of smoking, beyond morbidity, in health care or following work interruptions? Courageous measures would make it possible to have a return also beneficial for the State budget. Finally, among all the measures included in this law of various provisions, I would like to point out two of them which seem to me to be particularly problematic. First of all, this is the way you introduce the Sunshine Act, when there is already a mechanism that ensures the transparency of the links between healthcare professionals and the pharmaceutical sector and that works well. Thanks to the Mdeon system, applications have to be submitted upstream, which is obviously interesting, since it makes it possible to refuse an application if a whole series of criteria and rules, which you know well, are not respected. At the start of this existing system, a new layer is added. And where I cannot join you, ladies and gentlemen, although I am largely in favour of this absolutely indispensable transparency, it is on the device put in place that can go up to a form of search to the home. In this case, I think you're going too far. The Council of State underlines the lack of proportionality with the non-compliance with the mandatory provision of a list. The current system is working well. You make it evolve towards another, which does not differ much. But you're taking the step too much. Indeed, your project presents, in a way, all the health professionals who benefit - or associations that might benefit - from support from the pharmaceutical sector as well as great fraudsters or cheaters in power, justifying searches in hospitals or offices, or even at their homes. I find this measure totally disproportionate in relation to the target set. My second complaint concerns the evolution of the National Council of Hospital Establishments (CNEH). This institution is doing an excellent job. Your decision to remove any participation of federated entities in the CNEH is, in my view, a mistake. In view of future reforms and the transformation of the hospital landscape, in particular through the modification of its method of funding, but also because of the overlap of powers between the federal and the federated entities in this field, it is necessary to continue working with the stakeholders and to stop believing that the Interministerial Conference is sufficient. I therefore call for continued representation of the Communities and Regions in the NEHN. It is simply a matter of good governance. We have tabled amendments in committee, which we are resubmitting today. Unless a change is made by the majority, we will abstain from voting on this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u119	Mr President, I shall be brief, because I do not think we need to repeat the discussion that has been held in committee. As far as the social status of nurses is concerned, I think this is an important step. The fact that HIV tests can be carried out on the ground by trained non-health workers is also important. Of course, agreements must be made with the Länder and there must be a follow-up to the positive or negative results. I believe that this is an important step forward. We have also made money available for this. As far as the Sunshine Act is concerned, it is only natural that there should be maximum transparency regarding the relationships between pharmaceutical companies and health professionals, hospitals, patients or patient organisations. We bring in several articles to increase this transparency, in order to implement the pharmaceutical pact. As far as the veterinarians are concerned, Mrs Gerkens asked why temporary measures were chosen for the veterinarians. Why have transitional measures been chosen for veterinarians? They told us that they are not yet ready, but it will be no more than a year after the law comes into force. As far as double rooms are concerned, so far it was not ethical to refuse a double room and to guarantee the same quality as in a single room. This will be incorporated into the law and the patient will therefore have more means to demand the same quality of care in a double room than in a single room. In the case of alcohol, these are two measures provided for in the Law on Various Provisions. The alcohol plan is still in the hands of the interdepartmental committee and the working group. We must also respect the work that has been done with the federated entities. Thirty-six measures have been proposed, but there has been no consensus to bring them into force.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u120	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u121	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2154/9) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2154/9) The draft law has 127 articles. The bill has 127 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u122	• 23 - Fonck (2154/10) Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) • 24 - Fonck (2154/10) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u123	******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u124	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Griet Smaers, Leen Dierick.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u125	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u126	Mr President, I would like to refer to the written report, but allow me to make a small statement. Minister, I am very pleased with the long-awaited draft law for student entrepreneurs. My fellow Members will confirm that. However, I deeply regret the way in which work has been carried out. This took two years. Two years! Meanwhile, the majority voted away the sp.a's bill in committee and in plenary. A new bill was tabled by Mrs. Smaers and suddenly, after two years, you come with your own baby pomegranate as you yourself called it. So a lot of work was done for nothing. After all, your bill contains a lot of provisions that can also be found in our bill and in that of CD&V. This government is full of encouraging the first steps in entrepreneurship, but seems to be more in a hurry when it comes to encouraging large companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u127	Mr President, our country and enlargement, the whole of the European Union, suffers from too low economic growth. The growth needs to go up. It is the people who dare to take risks and undertake, who create economic growth. However, many international studies show that Belgium has a poor record of entrepreneurship. Many still prefer the security of a job in the government or as an employee in a large company. The Open Vld Group wants to give all the opportunities to those who want to do so. And the government must not impose any additional obstacles or discrimination here. There was a high threshold or great discrimination between the job student and the student entrepreneur. We are pleased that Minister Borsus has created a tie between a job student and a student entrepreneur through the draft law before us. In order to ensure that this matter remained a priority for the Minister in the past period, our group tabled a resolution in February this year calling on the government to work on this statute. In this resolution we asked for the adaptation of two specific social and fiscal issues. We are therefore pleased that the Minister has incorporated our ideas into his draft law and made the student entrepreneur's status more attractive both socially and fiscally. In the social field, the thresholds have been raised so that a student entrepreneur can now earn up to EUR 6 500 without paying social contributions. In the tax field, there is an exemption for the first share of revenue up to EUR 2 600. We can therefore fully support this bill. According to UNIZO, at the beginning of this year there were 5 000 student entrepreneurs. We hope, Minister, that we will be able to increase this figure drastically over the next few years, so that a student can be creative from a young age, develop his talents and put those talents as entrepreneurs at the service of the economy. Congratulations, Minister! We support you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u128	Mr President, Minister, we too welcome the fact that, in the end, there is a government bill introducing the student entrepreneur's statute. The draft law discussed in committee meets a number of objectives which we, too, had in mind with the legislative proposal that I had tabled. For us, it was important to introduce a separate statute for student entrepreneurs with the clear main activity of studying and entrepreneurship as a secondary activity in addition to studying. For example, entrepreneurship and running a business can already be tasted during student time, so that hopefully as many students as possible can grow into real entrepreneurship after the student entrepreneurship period. After all, the ultimate objective is to encourage enterprise as much as possible. We had proposed in our legislative proposal to propose a statute of our own, in addition to studying the main activity, and to make it as attractive for a student who takes action as for a student who is going to perform a job while studying. That is the principle of the job student, which provides for a tax exemption similar to that of the job student, as well as a social contribution scheme, in this bill, but also in our bill. For us, it was also important that a right of health could be opened up by the student entrepreneur in that statute. Since all these objectives have been met in the draft law, we agree with this draft law. We will support it wholeheartedly and our group's legislative proposal will no longer have to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u129	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, too long it has been complicated, it has been difficult to undertake in our country. The MR has always fought for the removal of obstacles to entrepreneurship. I am thinking here of red tape, low social security compared to the risks involved, high taxes. In 2015, the rate of self-employed among young people was 5.9% in Belgium, while the European average was 7.5%. Like other measures in the SME Plan, with this bill, the government intends to send a strong signal to those who undertake and those who want to undertake. This new student-entrepreneur status is aimed at our youth, its dynamism, its inventiveness, its creativity by giving it an adequate legal framework with a range of incentives and social guarantees. First of all, it offers a social security contribution scheme that benefits students whose incomes are below the basic level for self-employed persons. It also maintains health care rights. Even reduced contributions will open up rights relating to incapacity for work, invalidity and even maternity. With this bill, the majority continues their work of valuing and promoting entrepreneurship. It rewards risk-taking by young self-employed people and further implements an additional measure of an ambitious SME plan, the aim of which is to strengthen support for more than one million self-employed workers who, not only create their own jobs but also often create many more jobs, contribute to reducing unemployment and thus strengthen our social security. That is why we will support this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u130	Mr President, I will be very brief. Firstly, I would like to thank the rapporteur for her report and thank all the groups for their support. I believe a lot in youth and its ability to carry out a number of projects, enthusiasm and perspectives. Secondly, we needed a framework adapted to the student who wanted to start as an entrepreneur. Thirdly, I would like to thank my colleagues in the co-signatory government for resolving the tax and social problems that fell within their purview. Fourthly, I would like to point out, Mrs Vanheste, that I am extremely committed to consultation, in particular to social consultation, which is why the project has not suddenly arrived. In particular, the project was submitted to the General Committee of Independents for consultation. As we are dealing with a subject of education, I have also notified the project not only to a number of representative organisations but also to the federated entities. I've been working with them. The path followed by this text has enabled it to mature. It is not a sudden arrival but a final text that regulates all the elements of the device. I very much hope that in the future we will have several hundred, several thousand student entrepreneurs in our country. There is no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that among these student entrepreneurs, a number, at the end of their studies, will wish to remain entrepreneurs. Probably a number of them will become employers and take the lead in activities and businesses in our country. Mr President, why not give us an appointment in ten or fifteen years to have the opportunity to meet these student entrepreneurs who, thanks to this legislation, thanks to our collective legislation, have made it possible to write the first pages of their journey? This is really my wish: to develop entrepreneurship especially among students. A very big thank you for your support and for the publicity that you will not fail to do and that you have already done concerning this measure! It's a measure I love very much, I don't hide it from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u131	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u132	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2143/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2143/3) The draft law has 12 articles. The bill has 12 clauses. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u133	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u134	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2200/1) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2200/1) The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u135	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u136	I congratulate you. Mr. Lachaert had asked to intervene, but he's not here. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u137	The vote on the CREG budget will take place later. The vote on the CREG budget will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u138	By letter dated 22 November 2016, Mr Ignace Desomer, President of the Dutch Chamber of the Court of Auditors, asked to be entitled to a retirement pension from 31 March 2017 and to bear the honorary title of his office. By letter of 22 November 2016, Mr Ignace Desomer, President of the Dutch Chamber of the Court of Auditors, asked to assert his pension rights from 31 March 2017 and to be able to bear the honorary title of his office. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 December 2016, I propose that you respond to these requests. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 December 2016, I propose that you grant these requests. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. As a result of Mr Ignace Desomer's retirement, the Chamber of Representatives will have to appoint a new chairman of the Dutch Chamber of Accountants under the councils of this Chamber. Following the retirement of Mr Ignace Desomer, the House of Representatives will have to appoint a new President of the Dutch Chamber of the Court of Auditors from among the members of this Chamber. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 December 2016, I propose that the deadline for submitting applications be set at 14 days. This deadline will start on Monday 12 December 2016. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 December 2016, I propose that you set a deadline of 14 days for the submission of applications. This deadline will take place on Monday, December 12, 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u139	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, I have given everyone time to join the Chamber, but I ask you for a few moments of attention. The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the following draft laws: The government requested urgency pursuant to rule 51 of the Rules when introducing the following bills: 1. Draft law amending the Income Tax Code 1992 in the field of pensions, No. 2198/1. 1. Draft law amending the 1992 Income Tax Code in respect of pensions, No. 2198/1. A justification for the Minister of Finance's request. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u141	The urgency procedure for the draft law amending the Income Tax Code 1992 in the field of pensions is invoked for the following reasons. Belgium wants to be an ideal place of establishment for pan-European pension funds and has already taken several measures to this end. Through the bill under consideration, the government wants to prevent companies from deciding not to house their second pillar pensions in Belgium because of the administrative burden imposed on former workers who are not Belgian residents and who have never worked with us. This legislation has been developed in consultation with the sector. Some bona fide groups are already advanced in their plans to bring their pan-European pension fund to our country. A postponement of the examination of this draft law may adversely affect the decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u142	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u143	2. Draft law amending Articles 4 and 243/1 of the Income Tax Code 1992, No. 2199/1. 2. Draft law amending articles 4 and 243/1 of the Income Tax Code 1992, No. 2199/1. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u144	Mr President, we call for urgent procedure for the draft law amending Articles 4 and 243.1 of the Income Tax Code, for the following reasons. Asylum seekers will no longer be subject to the tax of natural persons, but to the tax of non-residents. As soon as they are recognized as refugees, they will be subject to the tax of natural persons. The taxable period in the personal and non-residents' tax shall in principle coincide with the calendar year, unless the grounds of taxable capacity in the tax in question arise after 1 January or cease to exist before 31 December. The explicit exclusion of asylum seekers from the personal tax means that grounds of taxableness cease to exist in the personal tax and creates grounds of taxableness in the tax for non-residents. In order to avoid problems with the alignment of the loadable eras and retroactivity, the proposed measure should be effective on 1 January 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u145	Mr President, I would like to comment on the previous and the current request for urgency. Those draft laws have already been discussed and it has already been voted on in committee. I do not understand why the government is asking for urgency on this issue. After all, reports have already been prepared. A number of draft legislation for which urgency is now being requested has already been fully dealt with. In principle, it is necessary to ask for urgency when submitting the draft. I do not understand why we still have to vote on this now, when these draft laws have already been dealt with in full and have already been voted on, except for a draft law on which a second reading has been requested. That will no longer affect the time limit for the second reading. So I don't quite understand why a number of draft laws should get the urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u146	Mr President, second reading on this bill discussed at length in the Finance Committee. On the substance, it is a completely ignoble project, but above all, the opinion of the Council of State is particularly murderous. It is a bill that twists constitutional principles, which undermines the overall consistency of the Income Tax Code to name only two criticisms among many others. Therefore, it is a draft which, in substance, is completely unacceptable, which in legal terms is not on the road, but which in addition has, above all, been the subject of a request for a second reading. So I really don't understand why we're coming, right now, with an emergency request.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u147	Mr President, you will recall that in the Conference of Presidents, we discussed when the government can ask for urgency. And on the note that has passed to the Conference of Presidents, I did well to clarify it, it is stipulated that the government could only ask for it if it makes the request in Parliament with the small mention "request for urgency" on the first page. And it is only then that it can be requested. I'm talking about memory.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u148	It will be important to check, Mr. Nollet, because I think you misread.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u149	The government is indeed asking for urgency because, Mrs Wouters, we have already approved a number of drafts, but you also know that the deadlines for drawing up a report and for the professions that are possible at second reading are being shortened. These are not major drafts which go hand in hand with very large reports. That's why. There is the draft on which Mr Laaouej spoke, and one can agree with it or not, but it has been discussed and we would like it to be able to enter into force on 1 January and that it can be voted on on 22 December. It simply has to do with the deadlines, but yesterday afternoon the committee had a thorough debate on the substance of the matter. No one has said that they are designs that Parliament simply walks over. A second reading was requested by Mr Gilkinet and Mr Laaouej for one draft, but the deadline for the report will be reduced by five days, Mr Laaouej, and that will allow us to vote on the drafts. That's all there is to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u150	That's enough already.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u151	Mr Calvo, if you have any counter-arguments, you must put them in, but you were also present and I did not hear them at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u152	However, I would like to stress that, if draft laws are to be dealt with urgently, they must be asked to do so when the draft law is submitted or at the time of consideration. Those draft laws have been voted on, so they will be on the agenda anyway...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u153	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u154	Whether I will vote no, Mr Van Biesen, will depend on what is in it. As far as the vote is concerned, I think there is no problem at all. The reports are as good as done. There's only the one bill that gets a second reading. I think this is a very strange way of doing things. If you had asked for urgency from the beginning, there would have been no problem, because the majority would have approved it anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u155	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u156	3. Draft law exempting income invested in a framework agreement for the production of a stage work, No. 2205/1. 3. Draft law on the exemption from income invested in a framework agreement for the production of a stage work, No. 2205/1. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u157	At the end of last year, the government decided to extend the tax shelter system for the audiovisual sector to the performing arts. For some time now, the call for enlargement has been expressed in the sector concerned, but also here in Parliament. It should therefore not be surprised that this draft law has been largely anticipated. If the bill can come into force early in 2017, the first productions will be able to use the new regime. Many producers will have already taken into account the new possibility of financing via the tax shelter when preparing their 2017 budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u158	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u159	4. Draft law imposing administrative fines applicable in the event of infringements of the shipping laws, No. 2206/1. 4. Draft law introducing administrative fines applicable to infringements of the laws on navigation, No. 2206/1. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u160	Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor to ask for urgency for a government project – not for one of mine. This is a project of our colleague Secretary of State Philippe De Backer. You see, it's not always for me that I ask for urgency! The European Commission is increasingly insisting on an effective, dissuasive and efficient policy of repression in this area. In various cases concerning navigation, the European Commission has already pointed out that Belgium must carry out an effective policy of repression. Belgium has therefore announced, at several European meetings, notably for the European Port State Control Directive and for the European Ship and Facility Security Regulation, that Belgian legislation would be in force at the end of 2016, allowing for administrative fines to be imposed in order to carry out this policy of repression. That is why this legislation must be notified to the European Commission in time. If this objective is not achieved, a warning may follow from Europe, which may also, but in a different direction, lead to high fines. In practical terms, this legislation enables these administrative fines to be imposed as of next year, which will have a beneficial effect on port and ship security. These administrative fines may also be imposed on the three Flinter vessels which are currently detained because of non-compliance with marine rights. It is therefore of vital interest that, as of next year, it is possible to launch and implement this system to impose these fines, so that this impunity is brought to an end. Furthermore, the necessary arrangements have been made by the Mobility and Transport FPS in order to be able to impose these fines as from 1 January 2017. I therefore thank you for giving urgency to this important project.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u161	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u162	5. Draft Programme Act, No. 2208/1. 5. Draft programme law, No. 2208/1. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u163	Mr President, the government requests the urgency of the draft programme law submitted to the Chamber on 5 December and distributed on 7 December 2016. This program bill contains various measures related to the implementation of the 2017 budget, which must come into force no later than January 1, 2017, in order to meet the expected returns.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u164	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u165	6. Draft law laying down various provisions on social affairs, No. 2210/1. 6. Draft Law on Miscellaneous Provisions in Social Matters, No. 2210/1. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u166	Mr President, I would like to ask the urgency of the draft law on various provisions on social affairs and to submit this draft to the Social Affairs Committee on 14 December. The urgency is justified by the need for provisions to enter into force on 31 December or 1 January. Chapter 12, for example, confirms a Royal Decree of 10 June 2001 establishing the uniform concept of "on average daily earnings'. Both the law and the royal decree referred to must enter into force on 31 December.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u167	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u168	On the draft special law amending the special law of 6 January 1989 at the Constitutional Court in order to allow the Constitutional Court in a judgment referred to a preliminary ruling to maintain the effects of an unconstitutional provision (transmitted by the Senate), No. 1988/1, as last item. We will vote on the draft special law amending the special law of 6 January 1989 on the Constitutional Court with a view to authorizing the Constitutional Court to retain in a judgment given on a preliminary question the effects of a provision declared unconstitutional (transmitted by the Senate), No. 1988/1, lastly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u169	Submitted by the Senate Transmitted by the Senate Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u170	Mr President, I give a brief explanation of vote. Of course, we are in favour of constitutional autonomy. We are in favour of as much self-determination as possible for the Länder. However, the system of constitutional autonomy is very slow in relation to the Länder. It is now being ensured that the introduction of additional incompetences can no longer be approved by simple majority, but only by a special majority, which means an additional lock, only for the Länder and not for a similar arrangement in the Chamber. We are also aware that if the existing system is maintained, it will run counter to the Constitution and cause practical problems if the German-speaking Community wants to use those powers effectively. That is why our group will not vote against, but will abstain in the vote on the draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u171	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1987/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1987/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u172	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u173	Mr President, this project is part of the laudable objective of helping the worker to care for himself and to accompany him so that he can gradually return to work. If this is done on a voluntary basis, it can only be positive for the individual concerned. Nevertheless, I would like to express our fears, which are inspired by the potentially definitive nature of the amendment to the employment contract, by the neutralisation of the guaranteed wage - which will generate two-tier workers -, by the lack of an answer to the question of the financing of these reintegration plans, by their multidisciplinary nature which is not guaranteed in their monitoring and, last but not least, by the lack of guarantees as to the voluntary and non-punitive nature of the reintegration plan. Of course, there is no sanction provided for in this draft. However, Mrs De Block told us that there would be sanctions for workers who would not be playing the reintegration card. This could be a particularly dangerous open door. Without a firm commitment from the government not to punish those who would not be willing to return to work in the event of illness, we will vote against this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u174	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 101 Yes No. 23 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2155/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2155/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u175	Vote on Amendment No 26 by Catherine Fonck to omit Article 46. (2154/10) Vote on Amendment No 26 by Catherine Fonck to delete Rule 46. (2154/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[39]] Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 46 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 46 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 25 by Catherine Fonck on article 59. (2154/10) Vote on Amendment No 25 by Catherine Fonck to Rule 59. (2154/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u176	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 59 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 59 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 27 by Catherine Fonck on article 64. (2154/10) Vote on Amendment No 27 by Catherine Fonck to Rule 64. (2154/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u177	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 64 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 64 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 28 by Catherine Fonck on article 65. (2154/10) Vote on Amendment No 28 by Catherine Fonck to Rule 65. (2154/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u178	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 65 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 65 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 29 by Catherine Fonck to omit Article 105. (2154/10) Vote on Amendment No 29 by Catherine Fonck to delete Rule 105. (2154/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 7 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 48 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 105 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 105 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 30 by Catherine Fonck on article 108. (2154/10) Vote on Amendment No 30 by Catherine Fonck to Rule 108. (2154/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 9 Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 48 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 108 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 108 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 3 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 115/1(n). (2154/10) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 115/1(n). (2154/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes [[39]] Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 16 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 4 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 120/1(n). (2154/10) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 120/1(n). (2154/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u179	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 5 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 120/1(n). (2154/10) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 120/1(n). (2154/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u180	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 6 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 120/2(n). (2154/10) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 120/2(n). (2154/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u181	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 7 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 120/3(n). (2154/10) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 120/3(n). (2154/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u182	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 8 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 120/4(n). (2154/10) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 120/4(n). (2154/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u183	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 9 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 120/5(n). (2154/10) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 120/5(n). (2154/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u184	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 10 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 120/5(n). (2154/10) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 120/5(n). (2154/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u185	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 11 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 120/6(n). (2154/10) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 120/6(n). (2154/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u186	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 12 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 120/7(n). (2154/10) Vote on Amendment No 12 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 120/7(n). (2154/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u187	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 13 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 120/8(n). (2154/10) Vote on Amendment No 13 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 120/8(n). (2154/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u188	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 14 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 120/9(n). (2154/10) Vote on Amendment No 14 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 120/9(n). (2154/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes [[21]] Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 36 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? (Non) Vote on Amendment No 15 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 120/9(n). (2154/10) Vote on amendment No. 15 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 120/9(n). (2154/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u189	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 16 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 120/10(n). (2154/10) Vote on Amendment No 16 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 120/10(n). (2154/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u190	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 17 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 120/11(n). (2154/10) Vote on Amendment No 17 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 120/11(n). (2154/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u191	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 18 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 120/12(n). (2154/10) Vote on Amendment No 18 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 120/12(n). (2154/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u192	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 19 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 120/13(n). (2154/10) Vote on Amendment No 19 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 120/13(n). (2154/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u193	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 20 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 120/14(n). (2154/10) Vote on Amendment No 20 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 120/14(n). (2154/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u194	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 21 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 120/15(n). (2154/10) Vote on Amendment No 21 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 120/15(n). (2154/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u195	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 22 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 120/16(n). (2154/10) Vote on Amendment No 22 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 120/16(n). (2154/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u196	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 23 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 120/17(n). (2154/10) Vote on Amendment No 23 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 120/17(n). (2154/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u197	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 24 by Catherine Fonck on article 123. (2154/10) Vote on Amendment No 24 by Catherine Fonck to Rule 123. (2154/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes [[39]] Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 123 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 123 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u198	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 79 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 55 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2154/11) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2154/11) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u199	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2143/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2143/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u200	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the budget for the year 2017 of the CREG. It will be brought to the attention of the CREG. Accordingly, the House adopts the budget for the year 2017 of the CREG. This will be made known to CREG.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u201	Transmitted by the Senate Submitted by the Senate In accordance with the last paragraph of Article 4 of the Constitution, the provisions and the draft special law as a whole must be adopted by a majority of the votes cast in each language group, provided that a majority of the members of each group are present and that the total number of positive votes cast in the language groups reaches two thirds of the votes cast. In accordance with the last paragraph of Article 4 of the Constitution, the provisions and the whole of the draft special law are to be adopted by a majority of the votes cast in each language group, provided that the majority of the members of each language group are present and the total number of votes cast in both language groups reaches two thirds of the votes cast. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) F I'll see you later. N Yes 55 133 78 Yes Non 0 0 0 No. Abstensions 0 2 2 Abstentions Total 55 135 80 Total The quorum of the votes in each group shall be reached. The quorum of the presences in each linguistic group is reached. A majority of 2/3 of the votes shall be cast. As a result, the House passed the special bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1988/4) The majority of the votes cast in each language group have been reached. The majority of those present in each language group have been reached. The 2/3 majority has been achieved. Consequently, the Court adopts the special draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1988/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-08-54-plenair-ip143x.u202	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 15 December 2016. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 15 December 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday 15 December 2016 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 15 December 2016 at 2.15 p.m.
