ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u1	Mr President, Minister, in a 2013 policy paper on fragility and a number of 2014 draft notes, reference is made to a fragility toolbox. Following a note of 11.11.11 on fragility and fragile states, we indicated that we do not know much about it. This question dates back a long time ago. How's it going in the meantime? Is that toolbox there? Is he coming? How is that happening right now?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u2	First and foremost, I apologize for the long-term answer to this question. The agenda candidates have not always helped. Following the elaboration of the frame of reference of the strategy paper on fragility, a toolbox prototype was designed by DGD Development Cooperation in the course of 2013. This toolkit was meant to allow a fast, standardised fragility analysis of a partner country. An initial analysis on the DGD days that year showed that not everyone was convinced of the added value of the instrument and the methodology used. In view of the efforts of other tenors and international institutions to achieve standards for joint risk analysis tools, the path of creating a toolbox of their own was abandoned. The development of a toolbox is no longer at issue at the moment. It is more advantageous for Belgium to use the tools developed by the OECD and the EU. They have specialised services at their disposal. Belgium also participates actively in the work of the OECD International Network on Conflict and Fragility on a regular basis. In cooperation with the Fragility and Crisis Management Unity of the European Union, Belgium has also recently organised a workshop in Kinshasa with the aim of jointly exploring the concrete response to the fragility challenges in the field. Around fragility and effectiveness, an academic research platform was established to support the central administration and our embassies in fragile partner countries. In the coming months, the further operationalisation will be developed together with them in an action plan. The toolbox is not really a target in itself. It is more important to have an operational toolbox that allows specific responses to given characteristics of fragile states. In this context, following the recommendation of the OECD DAC Peer Review, Belgian Development Cooperation intends to develop the necessary resources and take the necessary measures to increase its efficiency and effectiveness in fragile contexts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u3	Mr President, Minister, this summer came the news from the Netherlands that your Dutch fellow minister would no longer apply for exemption from VAT and import charges for the projects carried out by Dutch Development Cooperation, and that tax should therefore be paid on activities in a partner country. At the FFD summit in Addis Ababa, you said that other ways must be sought to increase the income of a partner country. I have the following questions. In what way is that happening at the moment? Does our country pay taxes and import charges on projects? What are the differences? Do you intend to proceed in this way in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u4	Mr President, Mrs Bellens, this too is a question that dates back to July, but I now have a very topical answer. General agreements on development cooperation have been concluded with partner countries on intergovernmental cooperation. It generally provides that the supplies, works and services financed under the Belgian Development Cooperation interventions shall be exempt from all customs duties, import taxes and tax charges. Each special agreement signed per intervention shall also provide that the Belgian contribution shall in no case be used for the payment of any tax, customs duties, import taxes and other fiscal and administrative charges, such as VAT, for supplies, works, equipment and services. These provisions apply only to direct cooperation. The partners of indirect cooperation must respect the legal provisions of the country in which they operate. Based on the joint writing of Sweden, Denmark, the Netherlands and Poland to Ms Mogherini and Mr Mimica of 11 March 2015 to which you refer, we have now developed a detailed plan of approach that follows and concretes the ideas of this writing in general terms. I am prepared to waive an exemption from tax, VAT and import duties, but under certain conditions. Belgium will only take the step if the other donors in the partner country also refrain from tax exemption. The partner country should also make measurable and follow-up efforts to improve its fiscal policies, such as improving and reforming recovery where necessary, and improving the management of its public finances. A system should also be in place to allow donors to monitor what happens to the additional income. The answer to this question is that we are conducting research and pilot projects, but that pilot project is actually already there. Last week we signed a first version of a cooperation agreement with Guinea, a new country. That agreement contains the element that we will not grant this exemption. That seems to me to be the logic itself. We are calling for correct tax collection worldwide, for Domestic Resource Mobilization, for the abolition of all kinds of tax constructions in international trade flows. Then it makes sense for us to set an example ourselves. In the long term, it is intended to do so in more countries, but under the above conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u5	Mr President, my question is about the Western Sahara, where Morocco and the Polisario Front have been in conflict for a long time. The Sahrawi people are the main victims of this and live in refugee camps, especially in Algeria. I would like to ask you about a state of affairs. The last funds I recovered in terms of contributions made by Belgium date back to 2006. Is that right? Has there been any more recent support? What impact does this support have on the situation in refugee camps? Is Belgium still participating in EU programmes to support projects in Algeria?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u6	Were the funds for 2005-2006 earmarked for Tindouf through the UNHCR's voluntary annex? Yes, indeed, they were specifically meant for that purpose. The monitoring of contributions to UN organisations is carried out through participation in management bodies, bilateral consultations with organisations and official follow-up. On the one hand, this is happening in Brussels in the relevant services, and on the other hand, our permanent representation to the UN institutions has an important role to play in this. The diplomatic posts in the field also provide feedback on the co-operation actions financed. Sometimes a site visit is also organised. Important instruments of follow-up are rather the different reports. Finally, the organisation is obliged to draw up a financial and a narrative report when an intervention is closed. The most recent earmarked contribution for the Sahrawi refugees to Oxfam dates back to 2005-2006. Between 1992 and 2006, projects on education, food aid and women's rights were funded. UNHCR received EUR 250 000 in 2007-2008 for humanitarian interventions in the health and water sector for 90 000 refugees in the five Tindouf camps. However, over the years, the crisis has evolved from an acute emergency to a complex protracted crisis. The humanitarian response has therefore been adapted over the years, taking into account the needs in the field and technological developments. Since the camps are so isolated, integration into a neighbouring market is impossible. In order to meet the basic needs of the refugees, almost all food, dry and fresh, needs to be imported. There's no alternative. Fresh food distribution chain has recently been significantly optimized thanks to the construction of a nine-fridge hangar. This was a huge logistical challenge, but distribution is now more efficient and the quality of fresh products has improved. Similar innovative projects have been developed in other sectors. Nevertheless, because of the physical environment, namely the desert, and the fact that the refugee camps are so isolated, it is not obvious to take the step towards development, self-reliance or job creation. Moreover, the refugees do not want to build their future in the refugee camps. In order to have a real impact, investment in aid will eventually have to go hand in hand with a substantive political investment in the search for a sustainable solution to this refugee crisis. In a challenging economic and financial context, combined with growing global needs, more and more donors have closed their budget line for the Sahrawi refugee crisis or significantly reduced the available budget. In the period 2012-2014, bilateral contributions decreased from 5.2 million euros to 3.57 million euros. The European Commission's total funding for the Sahrawi refugees for 2015 amounts to €10 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u7	Minister, all my good wishes for this new year. How fruitful! This question goes back four months and deals with the complementarity of NGO activities with the bilateral cooperation programme. When you reduced the list of countries from 18 to 14 with 2 incoming countries and 6 outgoing countries, you indicated that the programmes undertaken by the NGOs would not be affected. I would have liked to make a small assessment to see if that had not actually been the case. A few months ago, however, you indicated that the list of 52 countries in which NGOs can operate remains unchanged until now and that their right of initiative is maintained, but that a reflection on the complementarity of NGO actions with government cooperation programmes is currently under way and is expected to be closed by the summer of 2015. You said that the dialogue with the NGO sector was more intense than ever, which is great. Minister, since all these months have passed, in the meantime at the end of the year, could you give me the results of these consultations? What is the current reflection on the role of NGOs in our cooperation? Have any adaptations taken place? Has there been an impact on the cooperation with NGOs of all the changes that have already taken place? What is the future for non-governmental cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u8	I can confirm that the decrease in the number of bilateral cooperation partner countries has had no impact on the actions undertaken by NGOs in the context of non-governmental cooperation. The programmes that have been under way since 2014 continue according to the plans. The dialogue with the non-governmental sector was indeed intense and rich. It helped to define the conditions for a new partnership, capable of ensuring, in the long term, a relevant contribution from non-governmental cooperation to the post-2015 sustainable development agenda, to Belgium's objectives and to the sector's objectives. The consultation resulted in a framework agreement and a road map for its implementation. These two instruments shared responsibilities between the NGAAs, the Administration and the Firms with a view to revising as soon as possible the legal instruments necessary to ensure a sound regulatory basis for mutual commitments. These commitments are largely win-win, in the sense that they allow Belgian Cooperation to implement synergies, coordination, complementarity between the various channels of cooperation and, in the non-governmental sector, to strengthen its position of visibility and impact. Collaboration within and between different channels of cooperation offers new opportunities in complex or fragile environments. It is the concept of integrated policy within Belgian cooperation that must enable the efforts of all actors to be mobilised in a coherent way for the benefit of the populations of the partner countries, while respecting the specificities of each. For example, as of 2017 the ACNG will concentrate 90% of the financial resources allocated by the Belgian government on a small number of countries (33 in 2017, including the 14 partner countries). However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the choice of these countries is up to them and can be modified at their request. In particular, with regard to the conditions of approval, these were reviewed in the point of the examination of the management capacity of the ACNGs in a Royal Order of Amendment published in the Belgian Monitor of 31 August 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u9	Minister, thank you for this information. Things seem to work properly, and I am happy about it. They are extremely important players. I agree with your concern for coherence and integrated policy. At the same time, the wealth of these actors is also linked to their independence and their own initiatives. It is important to maintain some flexibility, on the own initiative of NGOs. But at the moment this pattern seems to me quite consistent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u10	Minister, I tabled this question following the coup in Burkina Faso in September 2015. Earlier that year, you had included Burkina Faso in the list of bilateral partner countries to be implemented from 2017. How do you see this cooperation now, taking into account the current situation? I submitted this question in September 2015, but you were recently present. I therefore assume that you have a better view of the whole situation today. What is your assessment of the situation on the ground? What impact does the current situation have on the projects of the bilateral partnership with Burkina Faso as of 2017? Can we contribute with the Belgian Development Cooperation to supporting the democratic process in Burkina Faso?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u11	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you about this first working ministerial visit in order to formalise the new partnership in Guinea Conakry and Burkina Faso, which took place in early January. As we discussed during the budget debates, you were accompanied by the Secretary of State for Foreign Trade, Mr. De Crem, as well as several Belgian companies including, it seems, mining companies. Your mission seemed to be a hybrid mission involving cooperation and foreign trade. Minister, could you take stock of this mission and of the various contacts and initiatives undertaken in this context? Have the federated entities been consulted in the organization of this new mission format? How has policy coherence been ensured in order to prevent private economic interests from encroaching on the social, environmental or human rights objectives of Development Cooperation? How can we ensure that Belgium has a clear vision of its contribution to Burkina Faso through delegated cooperation, as you seem to prefer? How will Belgium be able to address these issues in its political dialogue with Burkina Faso, when it seems that multilateral organisations are responsible for implementation? How have priority sectors and cooperation instruments been chosen? What are the links with previous programmes in Burkina Faso? What are the links with the work of NGOs on the ground?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u12	Minister, your first visit to the new partner countries Guinea and Burkina Faso took place at the beginning of January, as my fellow Members have already said. You didn't just go there. You had announced that you were leaving with Secretary of State for Foreign Trade Pieter De Crem and that several Belgian companies would accompany you. During the discussion of the policy paper, you said that you wanted to focus in Burkina Faso on socio-economic development, urban growth poles and the surrounding countryside. By June 2016, you want to launch a bilateral project on drinking water and sanitation, carried out by the BTC, and a delegated cooperation with the UN Population Fund on sexual and reproductive health. A full cooperation programme should be established in 2017. As far as Guinea is concerned, you say that cooperation is at a less advanced stage. Nevertheless, you already want to come up with a full cooperation programme in 2016. The visit to partner countries is part of the SDGs, which are committed to a partnership with the private sector to enable development. I have the following questions, which are similar to those of my fellow Members, but which I would like to ask. What is the outcome of your mission? What contacts have you made? Have agreements been reached, both with public authorities and civil society, on the planned development goals? What progress has been made in Guinea, where cooperation has so far been less advanced? What projects will be developed there? Can you give me an overview of that? When in 2016 do you want to unpack with the cooperation programme? What are the social and environmental requirements for private investment? You should be very transparent about this, given the comments on cooperation with the private sector. In addition to economic development, is there also a development of a social protection network? That is what is needed in those countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u13	Mr President, Minister, we have already heard a great deal from the press. It is also positive that development cooperation is being brought back into the media. That's your credit, too. You're doing it in a good way. We have heard positive reports from the media about the joint mission of you and Secretary of State De Crem. The private sector, which has an important role to play, was also to be welcomed. Amazing was the title of a media release: "Ngo"s feel passed by De Croo in Burkina Faso and Guinea. They feel ignored in their expertise and commitment. What's up with that? Has there been contact with the Belgian NGOs operating in the two partner countries? What was the outcome of that contact? On 27 October, in response to a question from me, you raised the following challenges with regard to Guinea: the weak institutions, the weak civil society, the enormous gender inequality, the fact that there are few or no social services and problems such as genital mutilation and child marriages. These are also themes in which NGOs play an important role. If these were the challenges, have there been no contacts with the Belgian NGOs working on the ground? If those were the challenges, are they also the slopes that were held back as strategic sectors in this mission? What was your approach in the preparation? Has there been a mission from DGD BTC? Has there been any consultation with the NGOs? How's that going on the spot? Has there been a joint committee or is it still to take place? Or were only the strategic sectors discussed and should this joint committee be there within two years as I have read in the media? What is your approach to the preparation and implementation of the mission? The same goes for Burkina Faso. What priority sectors have been put forward? What role does the private sector and NGOs play there?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u14	Mr Minister, after a few months of preparation of the first cooperation programmes with our two new partner countries, you visited Burkina Faso and Guinea at the very beginning of the month. You have signed a cooperation agreement in Conakry which marks the start of this bilateral cooperation. As for Burkina Faso, it is a two-year transition programme in order to make rapid progress in important areas. As you have indicated, in parallel with these launch programmes, conventional four-year cooperation programmes are in preparation starting in 2017. Minister, can you clarify the content and explain the criteria used and the methods used to develop them? Are the choices made presaging the content of future cooperation programmes over four years? Continuity is obviously a crucial aspect. Are, however, any changes and developments possible, particularly in order to better respond to the demands of the various actors involved? How have NGOs been involved in this work and will they be involved in the implementation of these projects? According to my information, three of the five interventions planned in Guinea are carried out by the CTB (Belgian Development Agency). The other two will take place within the framework of delegated cooperation with UNDP (United Nations Development Programme) and UNFPA (United Nations Population Fund). In Burkina Faso, it also appears that delegated cooperation will play a major role in the projects we will support. What exactly is the situation? In this context, what is still the role of CTB? By doing so, what political control can Belgium exercise over the preparation, implementation and evaluation of the projects concerned? Does the choice of delegated cooperation offer, however, guidance, transparency, visibility and accountability to the Belgian authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u15	To begin with, I am sure you know that Burkina Faso and Guinea are among the poorest countries in the world. On the basis of the development index, both countries are among the last 10. Unfortunately, there is little movement in the right direction. By integrating these countries into the new list of 14 partner countries, Belgium clearly focuses on the least developed countries, as we have often announced. Guinea was plagued by Ebola for two years and was declared completely Ebola-free by the World Health Organisation two weeks before we went there. Both the economy and the national health systems have been virtually destroyed by this epidemic and must be fully built up. I met President Alpha Condé twice in Guinea. I have signed a new general cooperation agreement with the Prime Minister and I have signed a document with the Minister for International Cooperation on the start-up of our governmental cooperation. Based on a seminar in Guinea in September 2015 and a mission from the DGD and BTC to Guinea in November 2015, I approved the start-up of two-stage government cooperation. In the first phase, in 2016 and 2017, the BTC will carry out three interventions on the economic axis Conakry-Kindia-Mamou, for a total budget of 10 million euros. These are interventions on agricultural development, supply of drinking water and capacity building through grants and a study and expertise fund. Furthermore, in a delegated cooperation with UNFPA, the United Nations Population Fund, a programme on sexual and reproductive rights and family planning will be financed. Also through delegated cooperation, this time with the UNDP, the UN Development Organisation, an intervention will be carried out with a view to the socio-economic reintegration of Ebola survivors. The budget for these two interventions in delegated cooperation amounts to EUR 5 million, so that the total envelope for the first phase of cooperation with Guinea will be EUR 15 million. I hope to adopt a cooperation programme for the period 2017-2020 in a second phase, at a Joint Committee in early 2017. This cooperation programme will build on the interventions of the first phase, but I do not rule out the possibility of new emphasis being placed. As far as NGOs are concerned, they are very limited in Guinea. In fact, in Guinea, Action Damien, MSF and Trias are active. The first two act in the field of humanitarian aid and health care. Trias is active in the field of agriculture. In Guinea, the activity of Belgian NGOs is, for the time being, quite limited. Clearly, we are seeking complementarities with them. In Burkina Faso, the situation is different. There was, as I said, a failed coup d'état on 16 September in Burkina Faso. This strengthens me in my belief that cooperation with that country must be structural, not only in order to support the democratisation process but also in order to support the socio-economic development of a country where the population is one of the poorest in the world. The failed coup d'état shows that the people of Burkina Faso have resolutely opted for the democratic character of their administration. The presidential and parliamentary elections took place on 29 November. They have been carried out correctly according to several EU reports. President Roch Marc Kaboré achieved 53.8% of the votes in the first round. He took the oath on 29 December 2015. On 7 January, President Kaboré appointed a new Prime Minister. This one now has a month to form the government. During my visit to Burkina Faso, I had a long talk with the new President, who, of course, raised the issue of the start-up of our governmental cooperation. Here we also organised a seminar on Burkina Faso in September 2015. There was a shipment from DGD and BTC in October 2015. On this basis, I have approved the re-launch of two stages of governmental cooperation. In the first phase, BTC will carry out an intervention on drinking water supply, sanitation and hygiene in and around the city of Fada NovaGourma in 2016 and 2017 for a total budget of €10 million. Furthermore, in delegated cooperation with UNFPA, a programme on sexual and reproductive rights and birth planning will be financed for a budget of EUR 5 million. This programme includes a particularly interesting awareness-raising project for young people using mobile telephony and social media. As in Burkina Faso, the total envelope for the first phase will be EUR 15 million. In the second phase, I hope to adopt a cooperation programme for the period 2017-2020 during the Joint Committee in 2017. This cooperation programme will build on the interventions from the first phase. However, I do not rule out any new emphasis, for example on food safety. In this way, Belgian development cooperation is clearly aligned with the development priorities of Burkina Faso, a country with huge challenges: water scarcity, food insecurity, huge rapid population growth, climate change, inequality and, above all, discrimination against women. The assessment of the mission I have just carried out in Guinea and Burkina Faso is extremely positive. In Guinea, we must stress the hospitality, availability and involvement of the government and the President of the Alpha Condé Republic who received the mission on two occasions. Guinea's private sectors were involved in one of these meetings. One can only emphasize the reception and support received at the level of the Guinean government and administration in the preparation and support of the mission. Belgium was thanked several times for its support during the Ebola crisis, the humanitarian aid provided by the Belgian Government, the continuous air connection through Brussels Airlines, even at the height of the crisis, as well as the continued presence of Belgian NGOs in the field and the development of a vaccine by GSK. These words of thanks not only came from the people affected, but were repeated time and time again by all our interlocutors, both in private conversations and in meetings, both in the public and in the press, and even during our audience with the President of the Republic. The meeting with Guinean civil society was instructive on the challenges to be met: the need for normative advances to incorporate rights and for the implementation of existing laws, the need to raise civic awareness in order to respect the public authorities, and public support and support for public projects. Civil society organisations, several of which are already in contact with Belgian organisations, may be beneficiaries and partners of our cooperation. The Belgian actors of non-governmental cooperation active in one or both countries were invited to and actively involved in the seminars organised over both countries in September 2015. Their input during these seminars and their common context analyses will help determine the analysis by DGD and BTC of the context of both countries, the priority needs and the opportunity of the sectors and actors with which Belgium will cooperate. During my visit I met the Belgian organisations and their partners. They certainly have a role to play and will therefore integrate their proposals into their application for programme funding, which is expected at the end of this year. Indeed, in both countries part of the cooperation programme will be implemented through delegated cooperation, in this case through the UN institutions UNDP and UNFPA, and this for well-defined interventions. Delegated cooperation is already part of most of Belgium's cooperation programmes with partner countries. The choice of this or gene actor for the execution directly via BTC or through delegated cooperation, is based on the principle of best fit for purpose. The format of the mission was indeed innovative in that it was conducted jointly by the Minister of International Development and the Secretary of State for Foreign Trade. While the objectives of each were different, it was stressed that human development and economic development complement and reinforce each other in a structural and coherent approach. The mission involved different levels of government, the private sector and civil society. The dimension of fundamental rights and freedoms, democracy and good governance were an integral part of the approach and discourse. I am responsible for international development at the federal level and have therefore not involved the sub-areas in the organisation of the mission. I'm Minister of Development Cooperation, not Minister of Foreign Trade. I would like to point out that the Länder were invited and attended the seminars on Guinea and Burkina Faso which I organised in September 2015 in the Egmont Palace. In reply to Mrs Grovonius' question, I would point out that no Belgian mining company was part of our delegation. I believe I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u16	Thank you, Minister. I shall now turn to the list of Members who wish to avail themselves of their right to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answers. I would like more details on the individuals or companies who participated in this mission. For the rest, I'll come back and ask you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive statement, but I do have two reservations. You want to start the first projects by June and a three-year programme should be launched in two years' time, after the two-year programme has been completed. I don't know if you're thinking about it, but it's all very, very fast. We know that you want to go very quickly and that you want to achieve results, but in order to set up development cooperation in two very difficult and fragile countries, which you yourself pointed out in your speech, there is still a need for a certain process. Following a straight line will be very difficult. I have reservations about that. I hope we can do that, but I still wanted to give it to you. I have a comment on the delegated cooperation. During the budget debate, we noticed that Belgian Development Cooperation will have to do with a lot less money and staff in the coming years. You want to make up for this partly with private resources and you want to appeal to third parties, to multinational organisations. You have also said this in the speech and it is clear in the start-up programmes, both in Guinea and in Burkina Faso. The money for Burkina Faso comes from the UN Population Fund UNFBA. However, not everyone is undividedly happy with the inclusion of other partners. From the Belgian NGOs we hear votes on this. You have stated that in Guinea the Damian Action and Doctors Without Borders were active. You do appeal to the Belgian NGOs, but if the autonomy they enjoy in cooperation is called into question, they will be less inclined to cooperate in those countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u19	Minister, your approach to a new cooperation agreement, which is a transitional agreement, is clear. You use delegated cooperation because it is faster and more efficient. You yourself say that you want to jump on a moving train, but that is always dangerous. You will use the rolling trains, especially the multilateral organisations. It is still unclear to me how you see the role of NGOs in this. After all, I assume that delegated cooperation involves all possible partners, both multilateral and private partners and NGOs. The NGOs claim that they have not now been eligible for delegated cooperation. However, you have just said that they will not be eligible until the end of the year, when programme funding is available. Of course they also have running trains, especially in Burkina Faso, where there are a lot of NGOs active. The question is why they were not used in the program. That remains an open question for me. Will you address this in a different way in the future, as programme funding is coming? It is not entirely clear to me how cooperation is going.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u20	Minister, thank you for this information. The countries you mentioned deserve our cooperation. They are very poor countries. It is important that we give ourselves the means to monitor these situations of poverty and to verify the impact of our action. It is a considerable challenge to get them out of the club of the poorest countries. I hope and imagine that you will be keen to make sure that our actions contribute to it. You stressed the importance of governance, the rule of law and democracy. These countries remain very fragile in this respect. That is why it is important to hold our programmes well with civil society. We have been several parliamentarians to have contacts with Belgian NGOs who are concerned that these programmes are being launched a little without them. I pass on this message to you, especially since Belgian but also local civil society in these two countries must be supported. You spoke about Guinea and the messages of concern that are being transmitted. I am not opposed to delegated cooperation, but it poses a problem of political visibility. Belgium must make itself known. It is an issue to know that we are partners of Guineans. It would be important to discuss both the interest and the way in which the effectiveness of such cooperation was verified, as could be done for bilateral cooperation and with NGOs. We're in the same kind of vigilance. They are important actors that allow to integrate actions, to have a greater area of cooperation. That is why we must be careful and certain of the effectiveness of their actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u21	Mr President, I am giving you a factual element. With regard to the names of the companies present, the question should be put to Secretary of State Pieter De Crem. However, I think I have the full list and I can give it to you. I already mention some names: Brussels Airlines, GSK, DEME, Jan De Nul, BIHA, the port of Antwerp, Rent-A-Port, Zetes and TE2C. As far as the press release on NGOs is concerned, I have read that too, and I think the question came mainly from Burkina Faso. There wasn't much in it outside the title. The title says that the NGOs feel passed, but the text itself doesn't contain much. I think that the title mainly had an announcement effect and was less about reality. We discussed this with the Belgian NGOs on the ground for about two hours. It has certainly been our practice to be able to start quickly. I understand, of course, that development cooperation has a long-term effect by definition. However, if there are five years between a decision and the start of an intervention, we are talking about the very long term. I want to keep that period as short as possible; of course I understand that time is needed before we see results. In general, I think that the role we have to play in such situations could be summarised under the English term scale up. We look at what things already exist today and give resources to sometimes small-scale but successful projects to make them more multiple. This is what we have done, in part, through delegated cooperation: explore what projects are already ongoing multilaterally and to which we can give additional impetus. In Burkina Faso we visited two NGO projects, one of Autre Terre on agriculture and one of ULB Coopération on water, electricity and agriculture. The message was very clear: in the programme funding at the end of this year we ensure that, after the common context analysis, which was made together with the NGOs, we choose the same goals and try to find each other for the second phase. When I say that we must make as much use as possible of what already exists in the field and of delegated cooperation, I am talking in particular about NGOs. However, I think that the period was simply too short for NGOs to be able to set up a number of things already. In this respect, the situation in Burkina Faso is very different from that in Guinea. In Guinea there is actually not much activity of NGOs. I really appreciate what the three NGOs are doing there, but that is happening on a very small scale.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u22	Mr President, I wish you all the best. Minister, the goal of the 70th session of the UN General Assembly, held in New York last September, was to adopt the 17 new Sustainable Development Goals, which follow the Millennium Development Goals adopted in 2000 for a period of 15 years. Eight goals and twenty targets were to halve poverty and hunger, increase access to health, education, and improve gender equality: the time has come. Positive results were seen in the figures for the reduction of extreme poverty. For example, more than 500 million Chinese crossed the fat threshold of 1.25 euro per day, which has a positive impact on statistics; the situation is similar in East Asia, India and Latin America. Economic growth therefore brings some well-being to some poor countries. Progress is perceived in emerging countries. These overall results, however, mask areas that are very remote from increasingly marginalized populations in sub-Saharan Africa, where infant mortality and malaria are still ravaging a great deal, and in South Asia. In terms of climate, several objectives related to the environmental impact of economic development would not be achieved. How do you look at the overall outcome of the MDGs? What weaknesses are detected? Which sectors have experienced the weakest or even worsening of the situation? What are the most critical climate factors? In which areas is improvement most significant? Finally, as far as our country is concerned, what about our assessment of the achievement of the objectives related to respect for the environment and the fight against the increasing social inequalities? To what extent are we bad students and what are the causes?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u23	My assessment of the overall outcome of the Millennium Development Goals, my colleague, is certainly positive. Much progress has been made in many areas, such as poverty reduction and access to water. In other sectors, too, such as education and public health, the record is in fact very favourable, even if the objectives themselves have not been achieved. Although the overall poverty reduction target had been achieved, that was not the case everywhere. This has been achieved through strong economic growth in China and India, while in Africa, in particular, poverty reduction has been insufficient. Also, hunger has not been sufficiently reduced so far. While the primary education target has not been achieved, the trend is certainly positive. Gender parity in education, on the other hand, has been achieved. Unfortunately, the very ambitious goals in the field of public health have not been achieved, but the progress is nevertheless remarkable. Indeed, there is a question of reducing infant and maternal mortality by half in a single generation. From a historical perspective, this is an exceptional performance. The objective of access to drinking water has been achieved, but not that of sanitation facilities. In comparison, however, the progress made in the latter area has been almost as important. With regard to drinking water, the percentage of the world's population without access fell from 24 to 9 per cent. In other words, 15 per cent of the world's population had access to clean water for the first time. The corresponding percentage for sanitary equipment is 14%. As the percentage of the world's population without access has increased from 46 to 32 per cent, this means that about 14 per cent of the world's population has been granted access to sanitation for the first time. The specific target for slum dwellers has been met. In terms of broader environmental objectives, however, the results are very weak. There is even a setback for some targets and indicators, including CO2 emissions, management of fish stocks and deforestation. The objectives of partnership and cooperation also show a mixed picture. The climate situation remains a matter of concern. Global fossil fuel emissions increased from 21.6 Gt in 1990 to 33 Gt in 2012. Per capita emissions also continued their unfavourable trend with an increase of 4.08 t in 1990 and 4.57 t in 2010. Two factors contribute to this development. First, the disproportionate control of natural resources and pollution by rich countries goes hand in hand with this phenomenon. Secondly, the enormous increase in population by the developing countries themselves, caused by population growth but also, in the first place, by economic growth. The answer to this question depends on the focus on the precise formulation of objectives and targets. The most significant developments are poverty, gender parity in education and the improvement of living standards in slums. Personally, I believe that it is in this area of public health that progress is most significant despite the fact that most of the objectives have not been achieved as such. Maternal mortality is almost halved in a single generation. The same applies to infant mortality. This development is quite spectacular. With regard to the fight against the epidemic of AIDS and tropical diseases, progress is also very satisfactory. About 14 million people have access to antiretroviral therapy compared to a few hundred thousand at the beginning of the century.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u24	Minister, thank you. Overall, a number of positive points were highlighted. However, the limits of evolution must be strongly stressed, namely, that the environmental dimension is too anecdotal. There is a clear lack of effective and coordinated political will to combat climate change. On the other hand, progress is uneven in terms of geographical areas and target groups, but, above all, the strengthening of intra- and inter-country inequalities demonstrates that the MDGs have not diverged from a global economic model where growth appears to be the only development mechanism. The fact that the next development agenda makes the fight against inequality a goal of sustainable development in its own right suggests another possible paradigm. The need to find funding in line with future commitments in order to ensure a certain cross-cutting nature among all SDGs needs to be defined. Finally, more broadly, the monitoring and implementation of the SDGs cannot be envisaged without a reference framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u25	Minister, last June I asked you about the place of children's rights in our development cooperation policy and promised to return to you on this subject after the New York Summit. To date, considerable progress has been made towards achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Poverty continues to decline throughout the world, primary school children are increasing and child deaths have decreased dramatically. However, the situation remains catastrophic for some of them, particularly in countries at war. Nor can we ignore practices such as child marriage and genital mutilation. It's 2016. Efforts must continue unabated. With the conclusion of the MDGs at the end of 2015, world leaders called for an ambitious and long-term agenda to improve people's lives and protect the planet for future generations. At the Special Summit on Sustainable Development last September, world leaders were expected to agree on a programme for the next 15 years. Minister, what are the main thrusts of the child protection program? Are the most vulnerable people, including children and young people, in concrete terms at the centre of action? What are the concrete objectives, and through what instruments? What is Belgium's position? What do you think are the priority issues? What programmes, particularly in partner countries, will receive special support from Belgium and to what extent? How will the government adapt its practices to make the most effective contribution to achieving these objectives?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u26	Minister, in its recent report Worldwide objectives for each child on the new developments, UNICEF calls for particular attention to be paid to the most vulnerable children. For the Children's Rights Organisation, sustainable development refers by definition to a development that can be continued by future generations. It is therefore essential for the new international development agenda to take the right decisions for children. In making these decisions, equality should be used as a guiding principle. Only if every child has a fair chance of achieving the tools, services and skills it needs to realise its full potential will sustainable development be possible. Lessons must also be learned from the past. In the Progress for Children report, UNICEF makes it clear that the Millennium Development Goals were not an undivided success. This progress has been made in many areas, but, overall, many objectives have not been achieved, precisely because insufficient investment has been directed towards the most vulnerable groups, including children. If we fail to invest in these children, we will never succeed in achieving sustainable economic, political and social progress and stability. Children who are lagging behind due to illness, missed school opportunities and reduced learning skills also miss the fair start in life that would enable them to live up to their ambitions and contribute fully to their society. In addition, there is violence against children, which threatens the lives of many children and harms the social fabric in many countries. Not only today's children pay the price, but also their children and their community. Any inequality lays the foundations for new forms of inequality in the future. The implementation of the new development agenda should therefore address the structural problems that still leave children vulnerable. Minister, I would like to ask you a number of questions about this. What structural measures does Belgium take in the current development policy to protect the most vulnerable children? Will additional efforts be made in the implementation of the new development agenda to eliminate inequalities among children worldwide? I would like to have an overview of short- and long-term measures. To what extent do the different federal departments pursue a coherent policy on the protection of the most disadvantaged children? What steps have been taken in this area? What action will be taken in the future? Investing in children means investing in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u27	At the World Summit held at United Nations Headquarters in New York in September 2015, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development was adopted. It is entitled: "Transforming our world – 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development." At this stage, what has been agreed at the international level is a political agenda set out in objectives, which is different from an operational programme. We want to implement this universal agenda at the level of our own policies and programmes, particularly in our partner countries. The 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda is global and universally applicable. It consists of 17 sustainable development goals and 169 targets and ensures that no one falls out of the boat. The agenda takes into account the most vulnerable people. Objective 10 aims to reduce inequalities in countries and between countries. The 2030 agenda also concerns children and young people in general, as it concerns sustainable development for the next 15 years and therefore prepares them for a better future. Children and young people are directly affected by at least 10 of the 17 goals and are included in the targets related to these goals. It is not possible to list them all here, but I will mention in particular: - the objectives relating to the fight against poverty, - nutrition, - health, and in particular target 3.2 for the reduction of infant mortality, - the objectives concerning education, - gender equality with target 5.3 aimed at eliminating harmful practices such as forced marriage and genital mutilation, - water and hygiene objectives, - decent work, with the aim of eliminating child labour and eliminating the recruitment of child soldiers. Protection against all forms of violence against children and birth registration are included in Goal 16 for the promotion of peace and an inclusive society. The implementation of that agenda will be gradual. We support the overall objectives of the 2030 Agenda. In line with the priorities set out in the 2013 Act and in our development policy, we will focus efforts on the poorest countries and fragile countries that are a clear policy priority. We want to promote a rights approach that does not forget children's rights. We also want to contribute to inclusive growth and we will pay particular attention to digitisation. Particular attention will be paid to the various objectives and targets mentioned above, which are specific to children, as they correspond to our priorities and the rights of the child, as provided for in the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Once again, implementation should be determined gradually in the operational programmes and will take place over the next 15 years. Work has already begun. It examines how we can further integrate the objectives of the 2030 Agenda into our development cooperation and through all the development channels, through multilateral and bilateral cooperation and with non-governmental cooperation actors. With our partners, we are working on integrating the 2030 agenda and achieving the sustainable development objectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u28	Thank you for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You've listed a lot of things. We will also monitor cooperation in the various developing countries where the programmes are being implemented. It is also true that the Millennium Goals were the driving force behind the enormous progress made for children since 2000. However, we must not focus solely on the successes. I think we should rather look at the failures in order to learn lessons for the future. One of these lessons is special attention for the most vulnerable children. You have listed a number of SDGs. We need to see which programmes are being implemented in cooperation with the countries in which we are active in order to achieve them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u30	Madam President, Minister, once again our country is threatened with the destruction of infrastructure which has been increased by Belgian funds. In the village of Al Aqaba near Jenin, a demolition order was issued for 95% of the buildings. The kindergarten, where the children's playground was built with Belgian money, some toilets were placed and the doors and windows of the classrooms were finished, received several times a demolition order. This Belgian investment amounted to 43 000 euros. On 18 February 2015, the European Commission stated that the EU, as well as individual Member States, could request compensation if destruction continues. A consensus at European level is desirable, but it is not a requirement. Together with other Member States, Belgium can play a leading role in this. Minister, have you already taken note of the Israeli demolition plans for the kindergarten in Al Aqaba? If so and if possible, can you still prevent the demolition of this building? Have you already contacted the Israeli authorities on this matter? Will Belgium go further than condemning the destruction of Belgian projects this time? Will our country also make Israel effectively responsible for the damage done, for example by demanding compensation? Finally, will Belgium continue to invest in the necessary infrastructure in zone C or will our country be deterred by the successive destruction by Israel?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u31	Madam President, since 2008, the Israeli government has indeed issued a demolition order for several buildings and infrastructure in the village of Al Aqaba in the Tubas Governorate in the northeast of the Westbank. This includes five micro-intervention projects in Zone C financed and implemented by Belgian Development Cooperation in the period 2003-2006. The project comprises several infrastructures linked to basic services for a total amount of about €43 000. The threat of destruction of Belgian development projects in zone C is carefully followed by the Belgian diplomatic posts on the ground. Recent contacts with the head of the village council show that Belgian projects are currently at low risk of actual destruction, but there is always a risk for the future. Belgian Development Cooperation has a major programme in implementation in the West Bank, including Zone C. It is essential for Belgium that the Palestinian people have the right to development in all regions of the Palestinian region. This is included in the Indicative Cooperation Programme 2012-2015. Belgium will continue to invest in infrastructure in zone C. For the next few years, in the context of governmental cooperation, concrete provisions have been made for the construction of a school in zone C. Zone C and the rights of the Palestinian population in this vulnerable region are also priorities for Belgian humanitarian aid. The Belgian Development Cooperation also supports the humanitarian consortium with a contribution of 1.2 million euros. The consortium is a multi-donor initiative focusing on humanitarian rights of the Palestinian population in zone C. The humanitarian consortium provides support for the rehabilitation and construction of homes as a preventive measure against forced movements, and for the protection of communities most vulnerable to forced relocation to the West Bank, thus responding to what the European humanitarian agency ECHO defines as a protection crisis. The humanitarian consortium also aims to provide legal advice and to carry out advocacy activities against violations of international humanitarian law in zone C. Recently, I approved the financing of two Oxfam projects worth EUR 2.7 million. Resilience of the population in zone C of Palestinian territory and international humanitarian law are at the heart of both projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased to hear that the assessment of the risk of degradation in Al Aqaba is rather small. I hope this proves to be true, but should the degradation occur, I am counting on a more decisive attitude from our country. I am also pleased to note the various plans Belgium has for projects in zone C.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u33	Questions Nos 6604 and 6875 by Mrs Grovonius are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u34	Madam President, Minister, during an exchange of views with our committee on 24 February, Mr Dominique de Crombrugghe, special assessor of Belgian development cooperation, came to present his 2014 report on the financial years 2012 and 2013. He had also officially announced the end of his term of office and said that he hoped that Parliament would work closely with his successor. Minister, my question is simple: months after this announcement, where are you in the process of selecting and appointing a successor to Mr. de Crombrugghe? When will a new special evaluator be able to take up his or her duties? In the meantime, how is the management of the service ensured? This is an important function, which offers a critical and useful analysis of our cooperation policy. It would therefore be rather regrettable that the "empty" at the head of the Special Assessment Service (SES) is going on too long, a fortiori at a time when you are thinking about an in-depth reform of the tools of Belgian Cooperation. In this context, can you also indicate how you see the future role of the special evaluator and his service? Do you think it is necessary to make changes in its functioning or in its mandate?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u35	The call for applications was launched on August 18, 2015. The submission of applications was closed on 15 September 2015. The pre-election is over. In the next phase, two tests are planned. One includes a computerised assessment, the other an oral examination. The first tests were scheduled for 20 and 21 October and 9 and 12 November 2015. The second on 16 and/or 18 December 2015. Finally, a further meeting will be held with the Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Development Cooperation in order to compare the skills of the candidates who have obtained a positive assessment. A functional chief was appointed on 20 October 2015. This is Ms. Jacqueline Liénard who has worked at the SES since 1 January 2010 and previously worked at the DGD's internal evaluation department. The department is currently operating with five staff members, including one administrative officer. Evaluations are currently being carried out as planned in the 2015 annual schedule. However, the absence of at least one formal direction by a special evaluator is all the more apparent in the context of the 2016 evaluation schedules, the obligation to report to Parliament and the external influence of the authority that benefits from the function. The existence of a Special Evaluation Unit headed by a special evaluator is highly relevant in a context of international cooperation in which evaluation and accountability to public opinion are increasingly important over the years. Should changes be made? Depending on the department, no. What is important is to at least maintain the current workforce and preferably increase it to ensure the effective functioning of the service. In addition, it should be noted that two agents are integrated into the international career, which does not promote stability.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u36	Minister, I can't help but worry. It's still an absolutely amazing delay. Everyone knew he was leaving his post. It wasn't a scoop. He was coming to the end of his term of office. He left his post almost a year ago. We still don't have a special assessor. You confirm that this is an extremely important function. I find it truly regrettable with regard to our cooperation. We need an external evaluation tool. We also need this special evaluator for Parliament. He had come to report regularly on his work. We had extremely interesting sessions with him. I can only regret what is akin to serious negligence. I really ask you now to speed up the work. You're reading me an answer that was already two or three months ago. I think it would be nice if you updated your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u37	We now have candidates. The selection is at its end.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u38	Yes, it was done at the end of December.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u39	When will an assessor be available?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u40	We have not yet had the specific information of the services. The last tests date back to the end of December. We should get the information soon, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u41	Thank you for informing us quickly of the appointment of a special evaluator, that he can be received in Parliament and that we can have a first interview with him if the president agrees. I think it's still important. We used to see it regularly, especially since there are great works and broad guidelines for cooperation today. We'd need her look at all this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u42	Debates of the European Parliament 7010, a question from myself, I turn into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u43	Minister, following the internal consultation with the actors of non-governmental cooperation, I have tabled a few questions. My first question concerns the representative structures mentioned. A consultation platform would be set up at the ANGS, which will form the GCAs, with the aim of promoting coordination and complementarity. The resulting programmes should, in principle, be well coordinated as a function of the importance of the partner country. An important role in this is, according to the information, the representative structures which will establish objective criteria for determining the programmes to be submitted. Now there is a problem, in the sense that we have four representative structures, the domes and the federations. However, none of these four representative structures represent the institutional actors. We see a possible problem in this, as there may be a shortage. Is there any possibility of offering the institutional players a representative structure? Will they join the other representative structures? What role does the policy still have in defining the objective criteria? Is there not a risk that smaller non-profit organisations and smaller non-recognition NGOs will be excluded from possible projects? There may also be conflict of interest, because some representative structures are also NGOs, and that is why I am asking you these questions. My second question concerns the abolition of the list of partner countries. In the framework agreement we read that up to 30 GCAs are drawn up from the ANGS, including the 14 bilateral partners. The remainder can be completed by any country in the OECD/DAC list. You said at the start of your policy that you would do a concentration exercise. Is there not a possible contradiction, particularly the risk of fragmentation? In what way will you combat this possible fragmentation? Finally, we also read that the ANGS remain autonomous, have the right of initiative but also retain their own working rhythm. Does this mean that there is no difference in rhythm between the policies and the functioning of the ANGS, especially in terms of funding and the functioning of the actors? The organization of finance is not always the same in terms of timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u44	At the end of August, I concluded a framework agreement with the ANGS on participation in the integrated policies which the government wants to introduce and on the organisation of their funding. The differences in programming rhythms in governmental and non-governmental cooperation make it more difficult to establish integrated policies in partner countries. With a synchronised cycle, it is easier to find complementarity and build synergies. The governmental programming cycle follows the organisation of joint committees and is aligned with the EU joint programming. So each partner country has its own rhythm. The ANGS programmes do not follow the same logic. They are tailored to the needs of their non-governmental partners. In order to reduce the administrative burden, the separate programme of each ANGS concerns several countries. It is therefore difficult to synchronise the programming cycles of governmental and non-governmental. The ANGS programmes are synchronised and start together in 2017. The framework agreement ensures predictability of non-governmental cooperation through five-year programmes. The synchronisation of ANGS programmes makes it possible to encourage complementarity and synergies between them through the common context analyses and a new instrument, the joint strategic frameworks that they will have to draw up. The still informal group of so-called institutional actors is currently undergoing a formalisation process. If they are recognised as actors of Belgian cooperation, they will receive the same funding guarantees as the other actors. The ANGS programmes, both institutional actors and civil society and organisations, are subject to mandatory risk analyses that take into account possible deviations from a funding payment calendar. During the transitional period between the ongoing programmes resulting from agreements and the 2017-2021 programmes resulting from organic decisions, flexibility will be addressed so that institutional actors can manage possible overlaps in the best possible way. It is wrong to say that institutional actors do not have representative structures. ARES-CCD and VLIR-UOS act as dome for the French and Flemish universities. VVSG, UVCW and UVCB do the same for the municipalities. These representative structures ensure an interface between their members and the administration, as well as coherence in the whole of their proposals. This is all the more necessary because the cessation of OS actions is not part of the core activity of universities or municipalities. In the negotiations I conducted with the ANGS, I ensure a balanced representation of civil society organisations and institutional actors. The opportunity to establish a coordination mechanism for all institutional actors has only recently come to the table. Two organisations now bear the full weight of the representation of institutional actors and this situation is unsustainable for them. Such a request can be justified on a temporary basis so that institutional actors can better coordinate their actions with each other. I will include your proposals in a forthcoming legislative proposal to amend the OS Act. As regards the criteria for the number of programmes that will be dealt with directly by the administration, these should be formulated by my administration in consultation with the above-mentioned structures before they are submitted to me. I will pay full attention to the fact that these criteria should not make a difference between civil society organisations and institutional actors. The representative structures will not decide on the financing of programmes. After all, it is up to the administration to provide me with a proposal for funding. In this way, no conflicts of interest are possible. Any system that will propose the representative structures will be assessed in terms of avoiding conflicts of interest. I myself will approve this indirect treatment system. It is true that civil society organisations are represented by four representative structures. Civil society organisations, as independent civil society organisations, decide how they want to organise their coordination and their representation. The law also assigns specific tasks to representative structures. Although the decision-making process in the CMO sector does not appear to be optimal, I do not have a say in this. The framework agreement has made the list of 52 partner countries of non-governmental cooperation redundant by introducing a general condition applicable to all programmes. Ninety percent of the funds allocated to non-governmental cooperation actors will be concentrated in 33 contexts, countries or transnational themes, of which the 14 countries of bilateral cooperation. This condition ensures greater concentration in a smaller group of countries. In my view, the 10% of resources that may be spent outside these 33 are not fragmentation but the embodiment of the right of initiative of the ANGS. This brings flexibility to their operation and contributes to the willingness of Belgian development cooperation outside the 14 partner countries. This freedom is limited to 10%, so in practice we will achieve a clear concentration of the resources of non-governmental cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u45	Mr President, Minister, in May I addressed this question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Reynders, who never had the opportunity to answer it. I wanted to maintain it because it allows us to take stock of Burundi. We know that since May, many unfortunate things have happened there. Very clear decisions have been taken by the Cooperation; I am of course thinking of the freezing of our aid. But my question specifically concerns the issue of the press and the role of the press. It is known that most of the radios were destroyed during the coup and could not be rebuilt. On the occasion of a Committee on External Relations, in which I was able to question Minister Reynders, he told me that Belgium must indeed participate, together with European and international partners, in the reconstruction of this capacity for freedom of expression. Minister, in the complicated context we know, have you had any requests or contacts in this regard? Have things been or will they be put in place in the near future?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the consultations under Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement with Burundi have not been concluded in a positive way. Since then, the European Commission has been working on appropriate measures to adapt the National Indicative Programme between the European Union and Burundi. That does not mean that any cooperation in Burundi will stop. The measures taken by Belgium and the European Union are reversible provided that the internal situation in Burundi improves on a sustainable basis and that the countries close the current democratic gap. Thus, in the case of Belgium, in addition to the measures already taken, Belgian Cooperation could draw up a multi-stakeholder and multi-dimensional programme on human rights and democracy. Support for the media should be part of this programme. Nevertheless, the rapid development of the security and political situation in Burundi makes the development of this programme very complex. The space for civil society is shrinking and fundamental freedoms, such as freedom of the press, are being threatened. The identification of the actors to be supported is problematic since some have fled and others are reluctant to work directly with Belgium on such sensitive topics. The form of our support is not yet determined because it will depend on the actors to be supported.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u47	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u48	Mr President, Minister, the series of elections in the Great Lakes region is making a lot of difference in the three main partner countries of our bilateral development cooperation. The incumbent presidents try to remain in power in all manner of ways despite the Arusha agreements. In Burundi we have seen in the meantime what this cramping of power can lead to. You have already indicated that you do not agree with the way things are going there. Now it's Rwanda's turn again. Previously, you refused Rwanda a tranche of 40 million because some of the conditions of the ISP were not met. For example, the political dialogue in your eyes remained inadequate. Recently, the Rwandan Parliament approved a constitutional change that the current President, Kagame, can theoretically hold until 2034. The Senate and a referendum still have to approve this. However, given the system of a one-party system in Rwanda, there is little chance that the Senate will reject the constitutional change. Belgian foreign policy, and by extension our development cooperation, has always played an important role in the mediation of conflicts in the region. It seems that even now our expertise will be needed there. Minister, I have a few questions about this. What are the results of the risk analysis for Rwanda in view of the new ICP with Rwanda? What steps will you take to ensure that the Arusha agreements are respected? What measures do you propose, if any?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u49	Mr President, Minister, as we could expect, Rwandan President Kagame announced on 31 December his candidacy for a third term in the 2017 presidential election. This announcement follows a constitutional review that now allows for such a third term and was "validated" to 98.3 per cent of the vote per referendum on 18 December 2015. I imagine you'd like to have such a score, minister! I usually think that beyond 50%, it is beginning to give indications of autocratic drifts. According to the Rwandan authorities, this reform is the result of a "spontaneous popular demand" and Paul Kagame could only accept this "choice of Rwandans". This revision and Paul Kagame's decision to represent himself were rightly strongly criticized by Rwanda's international partners, and in particular by the United States. On 20 December your colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, took note of the referendum. He regretted in this context "the absence of a truly free and open debate" and stressed that "the sustainability of Rwanda's profound socio-economic reconstruction work over the past decade also depends on respect for the principles of alternation and political pluralism". It's a beautiful wood tongue effort! We put on a lot of ointment. As Minister for Cooperation, what is your reaction to this candidacy for a third term following such a constitutional review? You have used us to have a language that is often clearer than your colleague. While Belgium is Rwanda's third largest bilateral donor and is now the second largest beneficiary of Belgian cooperation, do you intend to take action against the Rwandan authorities? Could our cooperation programmes be modified, reoriented or suspended? Is there a common European Union approach to Rwanda? Should we wait for him? What actions have you undertaken or intend to undertake at European and international level in this matter? Like what happened in neighbouring Burundi, had you previously told President Kagame your disapproval if such a manoeuvre to maintain power was to take place? Of course, Paul Kagame was more skilful than his neighbour, Pierre Nkurunziza, and more creative in the amendments to the Constitution, but the muzzle of all the democratic opposition in Rwanda and the serious attacks on freedom of expression and assembly that are found in it do not call into question the justification for the referendum he held? Is not all this the rejection of alternation, pluralism and the rules of the democratic game? What do you intend to do to try to strengthen democratic institutions and practices in Rwanda? What will Belgium do to help better guarantee and protect the right of Rwandans to exercise their freedom of expression, conscience and assembly, particularly with a view to the 2017 presidential election? What forms of support can our cooperation offer to civil society and the democratic opposition? Finally, what are the risks of contamination, particularly in the Democratic Republic of the Congo?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u50	Mr President, I decided not to approve a new cooperation programme with Rwanda before the presidential elections scheduled for 2017. There is therefore no risk analysis available. The Arusha Agreements were negotiated in several phases, from June 1992 to August 1993, between the then Rwandan government and Paul Kagame's Rwandan Patriotic Front. These agreements constituted the political frame of reference after the genocide in Rwanda during the political transition that lasted until 2003, when a new Constitution was approved. The referendum on a constitutional review was held on 18 December 2015 in Rwanda. Each country has the right to amend its constitution according to the existing rules, but it has to be established that the referendum was organised within a period of time that was extremely short for an issue that is so important. There was also no real open and free debate. That's got a stain on the whole process. Like the High Representative of the European Union, Federica Mogherini, who made a statement on behalf of the European Union, Minister for Foreign Affairs Reynders emphasised the principles set out in the African Constitution for Democracy, Elections and Governance. I refer to Mrs Mogherini's statement. Zij zegt: 的It is a legitimate expectation of a country to review its governance. However, the adoption of forecasts that can only be applied to one individual, weakens the credibility of the constitutional reform process as it undermines the principal of democratic change of government, stranded in article 23 of the African Charter of Democracy, Elections and Governance. I can't agree with that any more. Each country, of course, has the opportunity to change the constitution as it pleases. But if a constitution is amended so that it only applies to one particular person, I believe that even if it were based on a free referendum, which is still very doubtful about this, it actually undermines the legitimacy of the change. The sustainability of the socio-economic reconstruction to which the government has worked tirelessly throughout the last decade also depends on respect for the principles of political alternation and pluralism. These issues will remain relevant in the coming months as part of the ongoing dialogue between Belgium and Rwanda. However, it is premature to put certain measures in the forefront of the ongoing cooperation programme. Of course, I encourage all actors in Belgian cooperation, as well as our partner countries, to play an active role in achieving respect for human rights, democracy and good governance, one of the two central axes of my policy. In this respect, the proposals for intervention are, as always, received and evaluated by our competent departments. To complete my answer, I can add that, as you may know, during our visit to Rwanda just a year ago, we had a discussion about the incentive tranche that had not been allocated. It had been agreed that a constant and open debate on the subject would take place between the two partner countries. This debate will take place. I will not augury for what will result, but the debate will be thorough and will take place in full frankness.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u51	Mr President, Minister, perhaps it is a little too early to draw any major conclusions or actions on this matter. However, I would like to stress the importance of possible actions. In this respect, I can also refer to the government agreement, which states that it is possible to set conditions for development aid. In this case, it should be followed very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u52	Minister, we are clearly witnessing the strengthening of a dictatorial trend. Let's call things by their name. There is every reason to be concerned about public freedoms and human rights in Rwanda. It seems to me essential to establish an intra-European dialogue in this respect so as not to arrive in dispersed order. I don't know if you answered that aspect of my question. You are right to stress that Belgium must not take an initiative without consultation, but I am counting on our country - given the importance of our cooperation and our commitment to political dialogue - to act in this area. Another angle that you have only touched upon is the existence of a Rwandan civil society, which must be supported to the extent that it tries to assert fundamental freedoms. I am then pleased that the incentive tranche is not released. You explained that no new initiatives would be taken in terms of a cooperation agreement until 2017. That being said, what does this message mean? Does that mean that there won't be any later, if no change has taken place? I do not think you will be able to answer definitively today in this area. In any case, it is important to provide a response well in advance of this deadline. Thus, we will know our country's intentions if nothing changes in terms of governance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u53	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Grovonius' 7380 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u54	Mr President, Minister, at the time of the budgetary adjustment of April 2015, the commitment and liquidation appropriations for Development Cooperation had been reduced by EUR 150 000. This money had been allocated to the Defence, which allowed you to use the defence services to carry out some complex missions in the field, transportation and other missions. It seems that during 2015, you did not make use of this opportunity but that this mechanism remains planned for 2016. Minister, do you intend to use Defence services to carry out certain missions in 2016? What logistical support could Defence, in this famous 3D approach, bring to our Development Cooperation in 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u55	Mr President, Mr Crusnière, as you know, Belgium has chosen to focus on the least developed countries and fragile states. I believe that going to the field on a regular basis is fundamental in order to see the challenges and results achieved. Verifying that an important budget such as that of Development Cooperation, more than EUR 1.2 billion, is well spent is not only done by sitting in the power fairs but also by going to the field. The areas in which Belgian Cooperation is active are not always accessible by commercial flights. Moreover, due to a lack of regular flights between these countries, visiting several countries during a mission would be inefficient and very expensive. In order to solve these kinds of problems related to complex missions and difficult to reach regions, I have been inspired by an ease between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Belgian Defence. This includes a structural transfer of EUR 300 000 per year from the foreign affairs budget to the defence budget, allowing for the exercise of drawing rights for military flights. I made the same choice, although for a lesser amount, that is to say 150 000 euros. These are the drawing rights covering the cost of using government aircraft and personnel to carry out these missions. I used the drawing rights twice in 2015, i.e. for the mission in Addis Ababa for 27,000 euros in July and Istanbul Gaziantep for 21,000 euros in October. I will do the same for the mission to the two new partner countries, Guinea and Burkina Faso. In fact, a military flight was used for the junction between Conakry and Ouagadougou because there were virtually no commercial flights. I admit I probably overestimated the amount for 2015, perhaps for lack of experience. However, since I intend to hold joint missions with five partner countries this year, including Guinea, Burkina Faso but also Mali and Niger, I am likely to use a larger proportion of rights in 2016. In conclusion, I would like to add that EUR 150 000 represents 0.01% of my budget. Unfortunately, free flights do not exist. The travel costs associated with my missions must be paid either to a commercial company like Brussel Airlines which we try to make maximum use of, or to Belgian Defence. As far as Turkey is concerned, four flights were made for some 30 persons, which amounts to 700 euros per person, i.e. less expensive than if scheduled flights had been used. I would also like to point out that the flight between Conakry and Ouagadougou was already planned for the transport of equipment for NGOs between Belgium and Benin. In doing so, the aircraft had to make only a small deviation to ensure our transportation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u56	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. Know that my goal was by no means to criticize. However, in the light of your answer, it seems that this was your interpretation. As far as I'm concerned, I think your travel is a good thing. However, I thought that this budget line was not only for your missions, but was also used in cooperation, to go to places that are not accessible with regular lines or to allow a whole range of support at a lower cost. But, if I understand you correctly, this budget line is only for your tasks? It's not a criticism. However, is there an amount for cooperation with Defence in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u57	Information will be provided to you in this regard. Be aware, in any case, that, for NGOs, there is another method of financing the services provided by the Department of Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u58	Your vous and remerce.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u59	Minister, negotiations between the European Union and the Burundian authorities were launched on 8 December under Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement. That Article shall be used in the event of non-compliance with essential elements of the Agreement, such as respect for human rights, democratic principles and the rule of law. The negotiations have taken place in response to the serious political crisis in the country. Since the announcement by the Burundian President Pierre Nkurunziza that he is aspiring a third term of office, violence has flared up in the country and there has been an attempt at coup d'état. The area for civil society has virtually disappeared and fundamental rights, such as freedom of expression and association, have been severely damaged. The main media were closed in May 2015. Many human rights activists and journalists have therefore fled the country because of too dangerous a situation. On 26 October, the EU sent a letter to the Burundian government inviting it to enter into dialogue. The first consultation took place on 8 December. At the end of the consultation round, scheduled for March 2016, the European Union will decide whether the steps taken by the Burundian government are sufficient. If they are not sufficient, sanctions may be imposed by suspending European development cooperation. Following the initial talks, the EU stated in an official communication that it was dissatisfied with the negotiations. It takes note of the answers given by the Burundian Government, but considers that the answers are not sufficient to clarify the questions raised in relation to the continuing and increasingly violent crisis in the country. Belgium has decided to suspend a number of programmes and projects that are too close to the Bujumbura regime and thus strengthen it, as long as the dialogue is conducted between the European Union and Burundi in accordance with Article 96. Programmes and projects aimed at improving the fate of the population continue to continue. On the basis of the outcome of the dialogue under Article 96, it will be decided in spring 2016 whether the suspended initiatives will be restarted or permanently discontinued. I would like to ask you a number of questions under Article 96. What does the further procedure look like now? What steps have been taken in the meantime? What role does Belgium play in the EU- Burundi negotiations? Was our country involved in the talks between the EU and Burundi on 8 December, given our expertise? How does the EU's feedback to Member States on the results of the dialogue proceed? After each evaluation, will our country also receive the necessary information so that we can prepare ourselves for a possible reorientation of resources? In fact, you have already answered a little by means of a previous question from Mr Crusnière, but I would like to ask the question. What about the preparation of the Human Rights, Good Governance and Free Media programme that you announced earlier for Burundi?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u60	Mr President, Minister, we are not going to repeat the history of the deterioration of the situation in Burundi. The head of peacekeeping operations had just sent an urgent message to the Security Council in New York on the three scenarios that might affect Burundi: either a continuation of violence, a civil war or a genuine genocide. It sends an alarm to the international community. The least we can say is that the initiatives that have been carried out so far by Belgium, the European Union, the African Union and the United Nations have not allowed an end to the crisis. The situation continues to deteriorate. You announced the suspension of bilateral cooperation projects - from government to government. But, from a good source, it seems that these projects are continuing. What exactly is the situation? Have these projects been transferred to other NGOs? Only the police project was reportedly suspended in April 2015. I would have liked clarity on our cooperation projects as well as on the ongoing negotiations under Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement, which began last autumn. On the understanding that, on 8 December 2015, the European Union formally considered that "the positions expressed by Burundi in the context of the Article 96 consultations do not make it possible to remedy overall the shortcomings of the essential elements of its partnership with Burundi, nor do they allow a satisfactory response to the decisions of the Peace and Security Council of the African Union of 17 October and 13 November 2015, in particular on the need for the implementation of a rapid, sincere and inclusive dialogue". For the Council, consultations are closed and appropriate measures will be proposed to the decision-making bodies of the European Union. In committee, on 16 December, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, your colleague, noted the current failure of the negotiations on the basis of Article 96. In this context, is there still an opportunity for negotiation or is it finally completed? Is there still a door open? Do you think that there is no longer any hope that Burundi will evolve in its positions? What is the state of affairs to date? What initiatives could you still take? You announced that the cooperation projects had been suspended. We were told the opposite.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u61	The Article 96 dialogue between the EU and Burundi was immediately terminated with a negative conclusion at the end of the opening on 8 December 2015. Burundi gave unsatisfactory answers during the session and hid behind its sovereignty and the independence of the judiciary to avoid concrete questions about the persecution of political opponents, about torture and about fundamental freedoms. The negative result means that the consultations have been concluded and that the Council of the European Union will consider appropriate measures. A formal Council decision is expected at the earliest by mid-February. It is classic that in such a situation the European Union formally redirects aid via public authorities, although other measures are also possible. The text of the Final Declaration opens the door for Burundi to take further concrete confidence-building steps that the EU can then assess. It also indicates that if Burundi were to take steps to genuinely participate in a regionally guided inter-Burundian dialogue, this could be seen as a positive signal by the European Union. No Member State of the European Union, except the Netherlands, which presides over it and has therefore led the discussions with the Commission, took part in these consultations. However, at several meetings of the Foreign Affairs Council and the Council Working Groups, Belgium drew attention to the deterioration of the situation, with a clear appeal to the parties in the Burundian conflict to maintain their calm. Our country also played an active role in the preparation of the talks of 8 December 2015 and has always insisted on the proper information and preparation of the Burundian partner. The EU's feedback to the Member States on the results of the dialogue is carried out by the EU institutions through the different Council working groups and through the Foreign Affairs Council. Belgium has called for the European Union to clarify the coming process. Belgium has therefore decided to reorganize the cooperation programme with Burundi in depth. Direct cooperation with the Burundian authorities has been suspended or arrested, particularly in the police and justice sectors. The same applies to any other activity that may confer legitimacy on those authorities. However, contractual obligations with third parties that already existed within the framework of Belgian Cooperation are being honoured. Activities relating to the provision of direct services to the population, without having to work through the central authorities, are still being maintained, particularly in our focus sectors of agriculture, health care and education. The BTC has a minimum number of staff on site who can ensure a proper follow-up of these activities. Already Belgium is being addressed and also acclaimed for a fast and firm approach. An earlier decision to suspend was not appropriate. The EU and a number of EU Member States initially did not follow with equal enthusiasm. In order to strengthen our action, we have, as far as possible and desirable, aligned our decisions as much as possible with and placed them in an EU framework and in particular the Article 96 dialogue with Burundi, the outcome of which, as we know, was very negative. However, it is important to always provide and encourage an opportunity to make progress. The EU's final decision will indeed depend on any positive signals that may still be given by the Burundian authorities. Given the fragility of security and the rapid development of the situation in Burundi, preparations for the programme on human rights, good governance and freedom of the media are under way. Its conception is very complex, because the space granted to civil society has become, so to speak, non-existent. In addition, fundamental rights such as freedom of expression and association have been severely restricted. The main media had already been blocked in May 2015, while many human rights advocates and journalists had been forced to leave the country because of the high risk they faced.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u62	Minister, until March it will be almost two months. Over the last few days and months, we have seen that the violence has escalated very heavily. I wonder whether Belgium could not take the initiative or take the lead. If the crisis in Burundi is not resolved, it risks creating a snowball effect throughout the Great Lakes region. We also see that there is a very large flow of refugees, increasing the humanitarian pressure on the surrounding countries. The tension between Burundi and Rwanda predicts little good. Can you, as Minister for Development Cooperation with the Foreign Minister, send a clear signal from Belgium before March to prevent the country from slipping into civil war? We have had talks here behind closed doors and the situation is not to be happy about it. She's very serious. From the EU and Belgium we could give very clear signals, perhaps even before 16 March.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u63	Minister, I join my colleague, Mrs Pehlivan. The information we have just received from the head of peacekeeping operations is extremely alarming. We cannot stand by, Minister, in relation to what is being announced, which is feared. European diplomacy must take an initiative. We cannot content ourselves, in the face of the risks of genocide and civil war, with saying that we have not been able to complete the negotiations on the Cotonou Agreement. I would like to see a strong mobilisation of European diplomacy committed to trying to avoid the worst in Burundi. In addition, given your own expertise, it is important to continue to maintain support, support and support to civil society and NGOs. Unfortunately, it is also important to have contingency plans in the event of disasters, as well as to be prepared from a humanitarian and relief perspective. At the political level, I insist very much that we should not remain impassive. So far, we have tried to do what we could. But today we must not be discouraged and tell ourselves that there is nothing more to do and to observe the rest of the events without intervening. That would be a serious mistake!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u64	Mr President, Minister, this question dated 16 November 2015 concerns the October 2015 floods in the Tindouf region, particularly in the Saharawi camps. They have caused extensive damage to five camps housing some 90,000 Sahrawi refugees in the Tindouf region. At any rate, that was what UNHCR had said at the time. UNHCR and partners have started providing relief assistance to approximately 25,000 people, approximately 5,000 families, whose homes had been destroyed by flooding. Minister, this is a bit of a question. Do you have more precise information on the final balance sheet, in terms of material and possibly human damage, of the floods in this region? What assessment can be made of the humanitarian assistance provided in response to the needs arising from this natural disaster? How has Belgium eventually assisted these populations, which have unfortunately seen a gradual reduction in humanitarian aid in recent years? Furthermore, Minister, I am a member of an interparliamentary group on the question of Western Sahara. This interparliamentary group sent you a letter last year, to which we have never received a reply. Did you receive this mail? Why didn't we get an answer? Finally, knowing our country's close relations with Morocco, what role do you think Belgium could play in supporting a resumption of negotiations to resolve the political situation on the ground?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u65	Mrs Grovonius, I do not currently have any additional information. Belgium did not provide specific humanitarian funding for assistance to refugee camps in the Tindouf region affected by the late 2015 floods. On the other hand, Belgium contributes to the general financial means, the UNHCR Core Funding, which is the main humanitarian actor supporting refugee camps in the Tindouf region. In the context of these floods, at the end of October, UNHCR carried emergency aid, including tents, blankets and plastic tarpaulins for 11,000 families in the five camps hosting the Saharawi refugees you are talking about. In 2015, Belgium decided to grant a voluntary contribution of € 22.5 million to UNHCR's general financial resources for the period 2015-2017. As for the additional questions you asked, at first glance, I have the impression that they are more directed at my colleague, Didier Reynders.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u66	Minister, a letter was sent to you. Did you get it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u67	I don't know the postal box by heart. I need to check.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u68	Mr Minister, as part of the advocacy campaign of the CNCD-11.11.11 "Social protection for all", I am asked about the new priorities of Belgian development cooperation policy. Social protection is an integral part of the SDGs and is mentioned in the targets of 6 of the 17 SDGs. Belgium has also adopted ILO Recommendation 202 and we adopted the Law on Cooperation of 19 March 2013 with reference to the Decent Work Agenda. It also makes it a priority theme in its development cooperation activities. In addition, a motion for a resolution, for which my group has tabled amendments aimed at integrating and anchoring the right to social protection in Belgian development cooperation policy, is currently being submitted by the CD&V, one of the majority parties. Finally, while it is known that, according to WHO, ILO or even the World Bank, social protection is a powerful lever for development, particularly through its counter-cyclical nature and its support for the resilience of States and populations to economic and other shocks, it is surprising that your development policy, which claims to want to tackle the root causes of migratory flows, does not seek to promote social protection mechanisms in countries of origin for refugees and migrants. Therefore, Minister, why does social protection not appear in the priorities of your cooperation policy or in the strategies proposed for government cooperation? What vision and model do you defend in this regard? Would it not, on the contrary, be essential for Belgian Cooperation to have a strategic note on this priority theme which would provide a coherent framework for intervention in the implementation of the Belgian development cooperation policy and that it be drawn up by involving the relevant actors of civil society?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u69	Decent work, with its four pillars including social protection, is certainly one of the priorities of development cooperation policy. As stated in my policy note, Belgian Development Cooperation is structured around two axes: a rights-based approach and inclusive economic growth. The rights-based approach emanates from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, article 22 of which states that social protection is a human right. Inclusive and sustainable economic growth includes access to decent employment and the implementation of wealth redistribution systems, including the imposition of fair taxes to cover the costs of social protection. Clearly, social protection covers a wide range of social policies: protection against unemployment, protection in the event of accidents at work, protection of maternity, invalidity benefits, retirement pensions, health care coverage, income security for children. The aim of social protection is therefore to provide women and men, at different stages of their lives, with minimum income security and access to essential social services. My vision of social protection is that social protection policies play a key role in the fight against poverty, exclusion and inequality, while promoting political stability and social cohesion. Belgian cooperation is based on International Labour Organization recommendation 202 on the national social protection floor. This foundation consists of basic guarantees of social protection in the form of social transfers and access to essential services for all citizens. According to recommendation 202, it is the responsibility of the State concerned to determine its social protection system. Belgium therefore does not impose any model of social protection but makes available to the countries concerned its knowledge and expertise in this field. I would add that the recommendation can be used as a tool for the promotion and defence of the right to social security, for the management of social security and for the transfer of social benefits. I would also add that support for the development of the private sector in developing countries can be directly linked to the creation of decent jobs and social protection when it allows decent wages and adequate social protection for employees. The government cooperation strategy is based on the integration of economic growth, social justice and environmental protection. In cooperation with our partner countries, social protection is therefore present. In concrete terms, it is reflected, as requested by the partner countries, in particular in support of universal health care coverage, mutual health care, basic education, drinking water, school meals and nutrition programmes. The activities of NGOs and partner unions will complement and strengthen our governmental cooperation in the field of social protection. A common contextual analysis, by Region, on decent work is also under way in order to optimize actions in this area. Belgium will continue to align with ILO policy. The partnership with ILO will be renewed and intensified, including on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u70	Thank you for your answer. I hear all the things you're telling us about. I have mentioned some of them in the introduction to my question. The key question remains: why is there no strategic note on this theme, which is a priority? In any case, you also seem to indicate this priority in your answer. I have not received an answer to this central question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u71	Mr President, Minister, nearly two hundred countries met in Paris last December for a 21st time and reached an agreement. Climate change represents an unprecedented global threat and the main victims are the people of developing countries who are already struggling to maintain their food security and living conditions. In this context, it is important to consider the coherence of our Belgian cooperation and support policies, in parallel with the evolution of the climate change debate, mainly adaptation to climate change. Indeed, cooperation must be appropriate and the means of adaptation must also be appropriate. Partner countries need to be better prepared to deal with and overcome natural disasters. Our cooperation must support the strengthening of their adaptability and enable them to be less socially and environmentally vulnerable. Climate change can seriously affect the benefits of development project initiatives. Hence the need to analyse and understand the vulnerability and current exposure of our partner countries to climate shocks and stresses and their future impacts. This information will make it possible to put in place effective adaptation strategies that can be taken into account in our development projects and make them more sustainable. The difficulty is that climate change is constantly changing, so Belgium needs to think of an evolutionary adaptation. Minister, which partner countries are most vulnerable to the expected effects of climate change? Are our support policies sufficiently consistent with the need for adaptation to climate change? What projects are financed by Belgium so that partner countries can cope with the consequences of climate change? What support is provided in terms of technology transfer to address climate change?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u72	Mr Blanchart, an active member of CLIMOS, the CEBioS team of the Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences is also carrying out on the ground, especially in Africa, several projects of action research, capacity building, training in the field of biodiversity and ecosystem services for development. These projects involve scientists from the North and the South, as well as local authorities and populations. Moreover, several projects of the Belgian Development Agency (CTB) specifically aim to offer our partner countries support in their fight against climate change. Here are some examples. In Vietnam, Belgium supports the national green growth strategy as well as a sustainable water management and urban development project aimed at strengthening climate resilience in three provinces. In the Palestinian territories, the BTC has built an exemplary school in terms of energy performance of buildings and respect for the environment. This school uses geothermal and solar energy, thus ensuring a comfortable temperature in classrooms in all seasons. In Mozambique, the BTC is implementing a sustainable energy and supply programme in rural areas. For example, urban pumps are installed to improve the drinking water supply to local communities. In addition to these bilateral and indirect cooperation activities, Belgium contributes to a number of climate funds. Since 2009, Belgium has invested nearly €50 million in the Least Developed Countries Fund (LDCs), an international fund established to support least developed countries in their adaptation to the adverse effects of climate change. Since 2011, a total of €22 million has been provided by Belgian Cooperation to the Special Climate Change Fund for Technology Transfer to support developing countries in their adaptation to the effects of climate change. Belgium has specifically chosen to release funds for the Technology Transfer component. In 2014, at the Climate Summit in Lima, I committed to release €50 million for the Green Climate Fund. EUR 40 million were paid in 2014 and the remaining EUR 10 million will be spent this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u73	Minister, thank you for taking stock of the situation. I really insist on supporting the action that needs to be taken on technology transfer to deal with climate change. Technological change is fast and being able to follow it is the real challenge.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u74	Minister, I come back to you to raise a point that we raised in the budget debates. You yourself confirmed to me that the staff of the BTC in Burundi would be repatriated in view of the situation on the ground. Minister, you have decided to concentrate our development aid in fragile countries, sometimes called "at risk" countries. In this context, many aspects deserve to be discussed, including, of course, the issue of exit strategies. However, what interests me today is the issue of BTC personnel and their safety. Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. First of all, could you provide an update on the repatriation of the existing CTB staff in Burundi? How did this repatriation take place and how was it organized? Have any special precautions been taken for the local staff who were employed by our services, given the anti-Belgian climate that sometimes prevails on the ground? You and Mr. Reynders said that a security plan or contingency plan had been drawn up for Burundi. Can you indicate when and by whom? Would it be possible to obtain a copy? Finally, given the potential risks in other countries in the region, can you indicate whether such a contingency or security plan also exists for other countries where our cooperation is active? If so, for which countries? When and by whom were they written? Which departments are involved in their drafting? Can I also get a copy?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u75	Mrs Grovonius, the safety of BTC personnel is her primary responsibility. It thus decided to repatriate family members of its staff working in Burundi and, in December 2015, to repatriate international staff to Belgium or neighbouring countries. The holiday season coincided with this decision, which facilitated the exercise. A single international CTB representative was present during this period to ensure contact with local staff. The situation is regularly assessed with the FPS Foreign Affairs. In addition, the BTC has just entered into a public procurement to strengthen its overall security arrangements. A mission will be organized in January in Burundi. Local staff have been integrated into our embassy's security plan in order to keep him informed of the arrangements made. The impact files relating to them are developed by the BTC. The latter informed me yesterday of the return of thirteen people – out of a total of thirty-nine expatriates – deemed essential for the proper continuation of the interventions that were not arrested or suspended. The safety of Belgian and international personnel, as well as the evacuation of European nationals, is the responsibility of Minister Reynders, in consultation with the Minister of National Defence and France. The situation is constantly monitored by the FPS Foreign Affairs. Minister Reynders decided to transfer the embassy to a "familyless" post and to repatriate non-essential staff on 16 December. A travel notice has been strengthened. Belgian and international staff are included in the embassy's computer system, which will be used in case of evacuation. The situation will be reassessed on a regular basis. With regard to security plans in other countries of cooperation, I would like to refer you to my colleague from Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u76	Minister, thank you for your answer. I thought that the safety of BTC personnel was your responsibility and that you should be kept informed of a contingency plan and inform us about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u77	Listen to my answer, ma'am. I said there's a general evacuation plan for the people who work there. This plan is intended for both diplomatic and CTB personnel and expatriates. We are part of this plan. The latter was executed. It would be stupid to have a separate plan for the CTB. There is a comprehensive plan that has been implemented. In doing so, CTB staff benefited from the same repatriation and security measures as others. I didn't say I'm not responsible. I said it fits into a wider mechanics.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u78	I can hear what you're saying. As I feared, there is a comprehensive framework, but there is no specific country-by-country contingency plan at the BTC level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u79	There's a plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u80	In that case, tell me what plans it is and when they were developed. I would also like you to provide me with a copy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u81	There is a country-by-country evacuation plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u82	I am not just talking about evacuation plans, minister, but also about contingency plans, in other words, all the plans that contain, including information about a possible evacuation, but also about the measures that need to be taken based on the country-by-country risk analysis in real time. This refers to all the responses that need to be made based on the risks assessed as the situation in the country evolves. These contingency plans should already exist. There is indeed a general framework. He explains how to implement contingency plans, but I fear that outside this framework there is no specific plan for all the countries in which we are present, including countries where the risk is imminent, as is the case with Burundi. I will admit that I am wrong, but if contingency plans exist, you just have to pass them on to me. But I repeat that this is not just a question of what has been done within the framework of the evacuation plan, which a priori is only one of the elements that must be included in a contingency plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u83	You are really showing bad will! For each country, an analysis was carried out based on the present risk. It is carried out consistently in situations such as Burundi. Of course, it is being done less actively in Burkina Faso, for example, than it is today for Burundi. If you say, today, that we need to do a specific analysis for the BTC, I'll tell you that it would be stupid to undertake anything specifically for the BTC. When initiatives are taken for diplomatic staff, expatriates and CTB people, they are taken at the country level. You are busy sowing panic by saying that no action is taken for the CTB. That's not right at all! That's not the case! This is part of a comprehensive approach for all people in the country. If you want a copy, we'll give you one! You really are of bad will! You say that we do not perform any analysis for the staff leaving the BTC, that is not correct! We work for everyone, both for the CTB and for the diplomats in post and for the expatriates.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u84	Minister, I am referring to information coming from the ground. The officers in question tell me, in any case, that they have not been aware of such a plan, contrary to what they receive, in particular when they work in NGOs, where these plans exist from the outset and are transmitted to them as soon as they take up their duties, even if the situation is not yet a crisis situation. I'm not the one making it up! I think there is obviously a concern about the definition of the contingency plan. I am not saying that this should not concern BTC personnel alone. But I have, of course, focused my question in committee on this issue so as not to refer me to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I am not saying that this should only concern BTC personnel. I do believe that these plans must be carried out in perfect coordination between your department and that of Foreign Affairs. If they exist, so much the better! I'll be able to find out when you let me know. Otherwise, I will come back to you with additional questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-12-54-commissie-ic303x.u85	All the questions to deal with today have been dealt with. I would like to thank the Minister and my fellow Members for their cooperation.
