ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u1	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, my question dates from the end of February 2016, even before the attacks in Brussels and Zaventem. Nevertheless, the problem is very topical. My indignation was therefore great when I read that, at the end of February 2016, Unia, the former International Centre for Equal Opportunities and the Fight against Discrimination and Racism, found a doubling of the number of hate crimes in our country compared to the period 2010. During the same period, there has also been a worrying increase in complaints for inciting hatred. This is an increase of just under 20%. The conclusion of the Director of Unia, Mrs Keytsman, was not misunderstood. I quote: "The open enmity does indeed concentrate on Islam as a culture and religion, since it represents 93 percent of the number of files opened on the basis of the religious criterion. Following the attacks, Unia indicated in an article of 27 April 2016 that a further increase in the number of complaints was noted. Compared to the same period in 2015, Unia has seen an increase in the number of complaints concerning Islamophobia in the last months of March and April 2016. These are mainly complaints about discriminatory comments in the workplace and also on the Internet, where there is an increasing amount of hateful language. This phenomenon of hate messages on social media appears to be increasing. Finally, I refer to a report by ENAR, the European Network Against Racism, from late May. On the basis of data, it is stated that in 2014 50% of women's religious complaints related to employment were related to employment. Some 20% of the files opened on the basis of religious discrimination referred to wearing a headscarf or religious practices. ENAR says that Muslim women in the eight countries examined, including Belgium, are also the main target of Islamophobic violence. These are all very alarming messages. Especially after the attacks in our country at the end of March, the number of hate messages in our country is increasing. The question is, therefore, what can the government do about this, especially with the impact of the shocking trauma of Paris and the attacks of Brussels, when solidarity between the various groups of the population is clearly under pressure, and I think I express myself very carefully. Madam Secretary of State, I have the following questions. Are there recent figures on complaints at Unia about Islamophobia, before and after the attacks? What initiatives does the government intend to take to counter the growing Islamophobia in our society? Finally, what measures does the government intend to launch to promote coexistence between the different religious and cultural groups in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u2	Mr Yüksel, we have indeed been able to take note of these figures. I sincerely share your concern. The government takes this matter seriously, without doubt very seriously. A relevant measure in this respect is the 2013 joint circular. This is, as you know, specifically aimed at detecting and prosecuting hate crimes. In addition, it is crucial that we continue to focus on sensitisation. For example, I have allocated EUR 620 000 to four major awareness campaigns, one of which is specifically aimed at racism. As far as the notifications are concerned, 38% of the reports at Unia are about unequal treatment based on race. However, I would like to point out that an ongoing study has been launched on my question to identify the existing anti-racism policy in Belgium. This will thus show what further specific measures we can take to combat the phenomenon. Meanwhile, Unia has also been contacted to get more explanation for the above figures. Last year, Unia opened 404 files on hate messages, out of a total of 1 596. I believe that we should pay attention to the proper functioning of Unia, to the many successful attempts at reconciliation, something they always try to do first. They shall act as mediator in this regard. Eventually less than 1% of those 1 596 open files will come to justice. In addition, the trends over a period of five years for all notifications are therefore not only hate messages, but all notifications are very nuanced. For homophobia, for example, the number of reports remains the same. In the case of racism there is a decrease, reports of a rise in faith. In doing so, we must also take into account the growing awareness of the possibilities for reporting discrimination. I think we should take that into account, but it is of course a good thing. Strong legislation is essential to tackle such discrimination. You know that we have the anti-discrimination legislation of 10 May 2007. I can tell you that the evaluation will start very soon, because the royal decision allowing the evaluation was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 20 May. The committee of experts has been approved. It's for signature with the King. As soon as it is signed, the Committee of Experts will meet to evaluate the 2007 anti-discrimination legislation to see what can be improved, so that the legal possibilities are used and lead to less racism through better follow-up of legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u3	Thank you for the comprehensive answer. We agree that racism, discrimination and hatred are crimes that we in our country must combat by all means. The government and politicians in general must convey messages of belonging and belonging and not polarize. That is why I would like to emphasise once again that the Prime Minister's response to the attacks can serve as an example and that we must continue to do so. Madam Secretary of State, I would also like to draw your attention to hate messages on social media, Facebook and Twitter. We also need to look at the legal instruments in order to adapt them to that. We're gonna have to keep this place together. The atmosphere is very sensitive and very explosive, and so we absolutely must ensure that we keep things together. If we don't do that, that's choir on the mill of terrorists, who want society to be divided and there's a society with a we/she approach. That is something we must be very careful about, and we must pay attention to it. I have another question. What is your timing for the 2007 law review? When would that law be evaluated?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u4	An evaluation had to be carried out after five years, in 2012. That didn't happen. The first thing I did was draw up that KB. That's what happened. That is why we also needed the NAR, and that has taken some time. The committee of experts has been set up. If the King sign quickly, we will soon have the first meeting of that committee to specifically evaluate anti-discrimination legislation. Normally, according to the 2007 legislation, a first report is requested after one year, but I am already asking for a first rapid evaluation after six months. I hope to have a first evaluation opportunity by the end of the year, drawn up by that committee. All these people do so voluntarily, they are experts on racism and legislation. I hope that they will find the necessary time and energy to do so quickly. Finally, we managed to assemble the committee. That has been a very difficult delivery, because there must be a parity of Dutch/French, male/female. The NAR has a number of delegations and the region also has a number of delegations. She's assembled and we're waiting for the King's signature. This is in part already an answer to Mrs Lanjri's question, but you will be given a further explanation in that answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u5	We look forward to the first evaluation report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u6	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, in April of this year, the basic wage in Belgium rose by 2%. A single wager will receive 850.39 euros per month from now on. So much for the cautious positive news. However, the income replacement allowance for people with disabilities has not increased, according to my information, and remains at EUR 834.13 per month. That is EUR 250 per month lower than the European poverty line and almost EUR 200 per year less than a living wage. However, the explanatory memorandum of the Law of 5 May 1986 states that the amount of the income replacement allowance must be at least equal to the minimum subsistence allowance. Are my intel correct that the IVT didn't rise? Is it the intention of the government to abandon the will of the legislator from 1986? Or is this about oblivion? Have you discussed with the government about people with disabilities or do you have plans to rectify the error?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u7	Madam President, Mrs Jiroflée, in the context of the tax shift, a system has indeed been developed which reduces the tax burden on income from labour. However, account was also taken of the fact that some persons do not receive income from employment and that there is therefore a need for a social correction. Specifically, the Council of Ministers of 28 August 2015 included in the budget notification that an envelope of €50 million would be provided for the social correction of VAT reforms. The financing arrangements of this envelope would then be revised later, as was stated at that time. The Council of Ministers then decided on 11 October 2015 to apply the social correction of the tax shift, 50 million euro on an annual basis, to the living wage, to the income guarantee for the elderly and to the lowest pensions. A proposal had to be drawn up to divide the envelope between these three categories. This effectively resulted in an increase in living wage of 2%, while the income replacement allowance could not be increased, since it was not intended by the notification of 11 October 2015. In this context, however, my policy cell and myself have been working on the preparation of the necessary budget documents in order to achieve an increase of 2% in the income replacement allowance in the budget format for 2017, as it indeed provides for the living wage. That sheet is in and the budget talks are scheduled for the next few weeks. It can therefore be clearly stated that we are doing what is necessary to initiate the increase in income replacement payments at the budgetary negotiating table within the government, and that we are certainly taking this issue to heart. We also continue to defend the interests of people with disabilities and we are working for an early increase in income replacement, so that the amounts are once again equal to those of living wages. I have discussed this with the civil society organisations concerned and explained the situation. They, as well as the government, are closely watching to correct this oblivion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u8	We will also follow this case closely, Madam Secretary of State. I do not doubt your personal good will, as I have said several times. However, those involved will have lost almost a full year in the 2017 budget. That is unacceptable and not legal. I do not think this is acceptable, as these people are already having a very difficult time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u9	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men analysed the reports it received in 2015. This shows, once again, that women remain the main victims of discrimination and inequality. It is mainly about work-related discrimination, but also about sexual harassment and sexism. The examples are legion, we have all read it in the press. I am thinking, for example, of the woman who was dismissed on maternity leave for restructuring, while the company continued to recruit people. I am thinking of that woman who was not recruited because according to her employer her role as a mother had to come first. I will not quote all the examples reported in different newspapers. Meanwhile, the Institute has a whole list of situations, one can't think of them as crazy. Unfortunately, it's always the truth. Moreover, only a fraction of the number of cases of discrimination is actually indicated. In the meantime, have you taken note of the Institute's report, Madam Secretary of State? What are your findings or conclusions based on that? What problems will you take up as a priority and in what way?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u10	Madam President, we have indeed taken note of the press release of 3 May 2016 from the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. The complaint database at the IGVM shows that women are the main victims of discrimination and inequality, particularly in the workplace. First and foremost, the various issues must be identified. There is sexual violence against women, direct and indirect discrimination against women workers, and stereotyping in working life. A transversal approach to this issue is therefore necessary. It is also the reason why I am working out the National Action Plan "Gender at Work" together with the IGVM. Without wishing to take the lead, I can say that informing and sensitizing the various actors in the labour market will be a priority and is already a priority. I also refer to the National Action Plan "Stop Violence 2015-2019'. The aim is to tackle gender-based violence. This project is welcomed very positively and many different actions are already being rolled out. Finally, gender mainstreaming includes combating stereotyping. Training has already started and more is being started by policy makers in the autumn, so that the gender dimension can be taken into account in any legislative initiative. I am sure that the problem is well known to me. We started together with the Institute with a national action plan "Gender at work," but that is, of course, still a great work. We will certainly continue to pay due attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u11	Madam Secretary of State, I did expect you to refer to your various action plans. I believe, however, that it is our duty to constantly hunt you down on this issue. What I have against such plans, though of course I am in favour of those plans, is that it always takes so damn long. I think it's the best thing to do. I think it's the best thing to do. I am very concerned about the victims of violence, I think you are aware of this and I am sure that if women were no longer discriminated against in the labour market, we would also solve some of the other problems. I therefore call for a particularly rapid implementation of the plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u12	Madam Secretary of State, I have just asked a question. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). In this context, I have a number of questions. Firstly, on the basis of files they forwarded or received from the Social Inspectorate between 2010 and 2015, Unia would carry out an analysis as well as an evaluation of the cooperation. That was planned for the month of April. Has that cooperation been evaluated in the meantime? What are the most important findings? The Institute for the Equality of Women and Men would also carry out a similar evaluation on the basis of seven dossiers. What are the conclusions of this evaluation? What is the state of play of the inter-federal action plan on diversity? Has the analysis of the existing anti-discrimination policy in Belgium been completed? That's what was agreed. In the meantime, do you have any idea of the deadline that would still be needed to amend the legislation if necessary? Do you already know whether the legislation should be amended? In what ways? On what term do you intend to do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u13	Mrs Lanjri, for your first question, I can say that at the meeting of 28 April 2016, the Board of Governors of Unia approved the three-yearly strategic plan. Soon the action sheets will follow that strategic plan. The evaluation to which you refer is one of these action sheets. As regards the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, I can inform you that since the conclusion in 2014 of the cooperation agreement between the Institute and the General Directorate for the Supervision of Social Laws, we have been actively working on the concrete organisation of this cooperation. Since the start of this cooperation, there have been seven joint files. In two cases an investigation was requested, in four cases a report of an investigation by the General Executive Board of the Social Laws at the Institute was concerned because of a suspicion of discrimination. Once the Institute received a pv of determination. There were three cases of suspected pregnancy discrimination, two cases of possible gender discrimination in recruitment and two other cases of pay discrimination. Given the recent nature of this cooperation, an in-depth review is not yet possible. Among other things, in the light of the above-mentioned cases, consultations were held with the General Executive Board of the Social Laws in order to standardise and optimise cooperation. Concrete agreements were reached on the exchange of information, the application for research and so on. The possibility of future training for inspectors on gender discrimination is also being examined. Communication between these services is progressing constructively and according to plan. As far as research into anti-racism policy in Belgium is concerned, I have already partly replied to Mr Yüksel. This investigation is about to come to an end. The researcher will present her results to the cabinet within a few weeks. As has just been said, the Council of Ministers of 20 May approved the committee of experts necessary for the evaluation of the anti-discrimination laws of 10 May. That royal decree has therefore been confirmed and signed. It has yet to be signed by the King. It will be in force ten days after publication in the Belgian Official Journal and then the Committee can start its work to evaluate the laws of 2007. On the basis of this evaluation, we will see whether or not the law should be amended.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u14	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I really hope that the evaluation can be completed quickly. It's been planned a long time. She needs to get there soon, so we can adjust in time. We have nothing to do with an evaluation which may not be effective for a number of years. If we still have to change the legislation, a lot of time has been lost.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u15	The composition of the committee was very difficult because the order of the French-speaking counters and the National Labour Council did not want to send people. We had to ask for a very long time to get people on that committee. This has been achieved and now we can finally get started. So it was beyond the will of this government and the cabinet. I fully understand that all these organisations cannot just send people, but it took a long time to get people on the expert committee. We have sent a lot of e-mails and letters and made telephone calls with the respective organizations to send people. I am glad that it has finally been achieved so that that committee can start. I share your frustration at the fact that it has all taken a long time. That was beyond our control. I hope these people find time to do the evaluation. We have legislation, but we see that the problem has not been solved. We have to do this urgently and I am living in good hope, as it has been approved and those people are willing to start quickly. I hope they will come up with results soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u16	Madam Secretary of State, freedom of expression applies to everyone. It also applies to ideas or statements that are not neutral or that we do not even agree with. However, there are, of course, limits to freedom of expression. There is, for example, the ban on inciting hatred, and the spread of hate messages cannot or cannot be accepted in any way. An earlier question from me showed that Unia received no less than 728 cyberhate reports in 2015, of which 279 had a racial impact. The International Network Against CyberHate of INACH was expected to produce four reports by April. A report would include an investigation into the phenomenon of cyberhate. Another report would be on the cyberhate management guidelines. Are those reports available yet? If so, what conclusions can be drawn from this? If the reports aren't available yet, which I hope isn't, when will they be there? What are you going to do with those reports anyway? Is it the intention to work on the directives in concrete terms? What improvement points do you see yourself?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u17	Unfortunately, I have to inform you that the reports are not yet available. I did hear from Unia that a first version was forwarded to the project partners. These partners are Unia themselves, Magenta Foundation in the Netherlands, jugendschutz.net in Germany, the International League Against Racism and Anti-Semitism in France, ZARA in Austria and the Movimiento Contra la Intolerancia in Spain. The provisional version, which they have already received, will be discussed in the coming month. The reports are actually working documents that serve as a basis for the following project steps. It remains to be decided whether and how they will be published. We can't see that either. That's all happening through Unia. The relevant information may be summarised in the press communication. The decision to publish shall be taken jointly by the project group. In further consultation with the International Network Against Cyberhate (INACH), it will be decided how and when the external communication will take place. The purpose of these reports is to prepare the outcome of the project. The core elements are a form on the website, a notification web app and a joint database. In order to develop these tools properly, they must be suitable for all partners. The reports will contribute to this. The INACH project aims to systematically gather knowledge about the cyberhate phenomenon across national borders and improve its approach at both national and international level. Among other things, it aims to bring trends and developments to the attention of the political world, the judicial world, educational institutions, NGOs, policy makers, internet service providers and social media companies. However, since the reports are not yet available, I cannot, of course, mention any improvements myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u18	Madam Secretary of State, since it is an international partnership, I understand that certain decisions must be taken together. However, you are the responsible Secretary of State for Unia in our country and yet also the watchdog for cyberhate and discrimination in our country. The results for the part that is taking place on our territory must be accessible to the public, to us and to policy makers. You as Secretary of State and we as Members of Parliament have the right to see that. I insist that we see these results, certainly those of our country. We have an institution watching that. I would also like to take note of that. Measuring is known, and on that basis one can change the policy. I'm counting on it. I hope that you will urge Unia to get either the whole study or the part relating to Belgium in a report. Madam President, we can also organise a hearing and ask how Unia will deal with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u19	That is not a problem for me, but Unia is an independent institution and does not belong to my administration. I am also curious about those reports, but of course I have nothing to say about the international consortium's operation. However, Unia may be asked as an institute to provide an explanation. I don't have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u20	I suggest that Mrs Lanjri make the proposal to the committee and then we will decide whether or not to include it in the work. This could be an interesting meeting. I also note it as an opportunity for future work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u21	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, the resolution on the fight against poverty was adopted a few days ago. From an answer to an earlier question, you stated that the Court of Auditors has since started investigating the quality, implementation, follow-up and evaluation of the second poverty reduction plan 2012-2014. When will the Court of Auditors complete that study? Will it wait until it is ready to complete the third poverty reduction plan? I don't suppose it would be long, because we've been waiting a long time for that third poverty reduction plan. Meanwhile, you are working on the third poverty reduction plan. What's your status? Are there elements in the resolution included, for example the automation of the granting of social rights? To this end, the network of federal poverty officials was asked for a note on the further automation of rights. How's that study coming? I assume that it is now ready, that you include it in the third poverty reduction plan, and that you will include other elements in the resolution, including the increase in benefits up to the poverty line. This is stated both in the coalition agreement and in the resolution. I assume that in the policy plan you will indicate very concretely what steps you will take to ensure that benefits are raised effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u22	Madam President, in a letter dated 17 February last addressed to the President of the Chamber of Representatives, the Chairman of the PPS Social Integration and myself, the Court of Auditors indeed indicated that it would deliver a preliminary contradictory report to Mr Van Geertsom and myself in the second quarter of 2016. A final report will then be forwarded to the Chamber of Representatives. The first preliminary results of the analysis were presented to the administration. This shows that only 8 out of 110 measures have been evaluated. Meanwhile, the federal poverty reduction plan is in its final phase. The consultation with civil society will continue. Just yesterday I had a discussion with various representatives of poverty groups, of the Belgian Platform against Poverty and Social Exclusion, to evaluate the third poverty reduction plan. We take account of the comments made and they are incorporated into the plan. The plan will then be submitted to the government. I can say the following about the Court of Auditors' evaluation. It is a fact that the final evaluation has not yet been carried out. However, it has already been made clear to us that only 8 out of 110 measures have been evaluated. We shall take this into account as far as possible. As I said, in the meantime, we want to deliver the third plan. I agreed with civil society yesterday that we will take their comments into account. The Inter-Kabinette Working Groups will also make comments to the Government. We're working on it. Ultimately, it is not so easy to base ourselves on the evaluation of the second poverty reduction plan. This evaluation is not very much to be achieved at the moment. The network of federal poverty officials organized a survey on the automation of social rights. The proposals we have received on this subject are not so much about the direct automatic opening of rights, but often about administrative simplification initiatives, which, after application by the citizen, should ease the granting of rights with as little administrative burden as possible for the citizen. These proposals are currently being further discussed and refined in the network of federal poverty officials. I would add that for the composition of the network the membership list was initially limited to the federal institutions involved in the preparation and follow-up of the second federal poverty reduction plan. Now, however, in order to improve the functioning of the network of federal poverty officials, we have also asked several organisations to join. The survey has therefore taken place, but the results are mainly about administrative simplification. This is further incorporated into the network of federal poverty officials. To optimize its operation, we have expanded that network with various organisations and other federal institutions. Last week we also had hearings on automatic rights. This will be done together with Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u23	Madam Secretary of State, I regret to note with you that out of the 110 measures included in the second poverty reduction plan, only 8 have been evaluated. That's a disaster. So almost nothing has been evaluated. Why is that? Perhaps because a large part of the measures were not implemented. That is not a reproach to you, but if some of the measures were not implemented, then there is nothing to evaluate. It's as simple as that. It is best to speak with the sector and with the people of the Belgian network and other poverty groups. Those are the best evaluators. Those people know what to send in and where it's gone wrong. Last week, in this committee, we found that they set a number of very simple and clear priorities, for example. Start with that already. I therefore hope that the third poverty reduction plan will not include 110 measures, eight of which will be implemented. I hope that you will set clear priorities, work very concretely and not remain too vague. That is why I ask you to include in your plan to combat poverty in concrete terms how you will achieve the objective set out in the government agreement, namely to raise benefits up to the poverty line. I have already tabled two legislative proposals for this. I hope that they will be supported in Parliament, or that you will achieve that objective in the government. I do not care if that objective is achieved. We're on the same page. We must achieve this objective, but you must also include it in the policy plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u24	Madam Secretary of State, I have already asked a question about the various social corrections. I still have a number of additional questions, because there is still a study in progress. You replied that the current study looks at the impact of raising social benefits to the European poverty line. What aspects are being examined in the study? What are the specific research questions? For which policy initiatives do you think research is important and for which laws and rules? Will you take into account its results? When are these results expected? Can the study also be delivered to MEPs?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u25	Mrs Lanjri, there are actually two studies. Firstly, we carried out our own study at cabinet level. This relates to the calculation of the social benefits and their deduction from the reference budgets, so that the deficit can be calculated. In accordance with the coalition agreement, we want to reach the poverty line. Reducing deficits has budgetary implications from the 2017 budget. For example, we have calculated that the measure for the IVT costs around 95 million for 2017. Secondly, there is the longer-term TAKE study at BELSPO. The aim of this research is to improve the uptake of social benefits by studying the major features, causes and consequences of non-inclusion of measures and benefits targeted at vulnerable target groups in Belgium. That's the so-called non-take-up. In addition, the study will identify the potential impact of measures aimed at reducing non-take-up. This will build on theoretical insights, the analysis of administrative data, the collection of new data, the use of microsimulation techniques and experimental designs. As both the causes and the effects of non-take-up are investigated, the research is important for all policy-makers involved in the social protection and welfare of the population. The research consists of several components and the expected results vary according to the section. We first have a survey with 2 500 low-income families about the non-use of all kinds of measures. The results of this are expected at the end of 2018, beginning 2019. This concerns, for example, the increased compensation for health costs, the rent guarantee or the guaranteed child benefit. On the other hand, we have an analysis of the administrative data on the use of employers' subsidies. It is expected by early 2019. In addition, there are experiments to assess the impact of the proactive flux on the use of the increased healthcare benefit. This last section is expected to produce the first results this year. The final results of the complex study are expected in the first trimester of 2020. They will be the subject of a publication by the institution responsible for implementing the BRAIN programme at federal level. The year 2020 is still a long way away, so I will press for interim reports so that policy adjustments can be made where possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u26	Madam Secretary of State, I would also like to insist on speed. There's no point in us studying things we've known for years. I note that poverty has not been reduced in our country and that it has even increased in children. We must therefore, above all, ensure that we work in practice. Continuing to carry out studies, especially if the results are only in 2020 or 2050, does not make much sense. I would therefore like to call for concrete action, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u27	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, I recall that you recently denounced the cooperation agreement of 23 January 2007 between the Federal State, the French Community (as it was then called) and the Walloon Region, concerning the administrative and financial management of provincial coordinations for equality between women and men. Through this agreement, the various entities committed themselves to funding an annual call for projects aimed at supporting pilot projects in the field of gender equality policy, at the local level, in five French-speaking provinces. Within this framework, contributions have been set at €62,400 for the federal state, i.e. €12,480 per province and €28,125 for the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, i.e. €5,625 per province. Madam Secretary of State, do you confirm the denunciation of this agreement? If so, can you give me the specific reasons for this denunciation? As you know, a six-month notice period is provided to give the parties an opportunity to negotiate with a view to changing the content of the current agreement. Given the importance of the problem covered by this cooperation agreement, could a consultation be held in order to reach a solution within this framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u28	Mrs Lalieux, the 2007 cooperation agreement on local policy was effectively terminated on 3 February by means of a letter addressed to fellow ministers Isabelle Simonis, Eliane Tillieux and Maxime Prévot, subject to the six-month period as provided for in Article 6. For 2016, wage agreements and call for projects were signed with the five French-speaking provinces; the agreements run until the end of July for a total budget of 72,800 euros. Apart from this, a temporary agreement was concluded between 3 August and the end of December with the Walloon Region and the French Community in order to ensure the operation of the provincial coordinators until the end of the year. The same economic policy as for the functioning of the Brussels and Flemish coordinators is applicable. The cooperation agreement was terminated because of the annual linear economy imposed on the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. In order to ensure its own structural functioning, the Institute must therefore reduce certain grants and projects. It is left to the Institute to terminate the cooperation agreement. However, provincial coordinators will continue to do so until the end of the year. A solution for next year is being explored. In the meantime, discussions are under way among all stakeholders, including the provinces, the Institute and concerned governments, in order to gather views on possible future collaborations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u29	Madam Secretary of State, the opposition, and the socialists in particular, have been denouncing the linear cuts in administrations and para-publics since this government took office. They do not take into account the reality of the field or the reality of the projects. While equality between women and men is considered a priority, which is essential for the implementation of equality in neighbourhoods such as the provinces, I find it regrettable to put an end to a convention that has been in force for ten years. If I understand you correctly, and I will inform the federated entities, discussions are under way. I do not know whether it is in order to conclude a new cooperation agreement and to find money. In any case, I hope that the federal government will continue to invest in such supported projects in the federated entities and the provinces. I therefore regret this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u30	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu turned her question No 10530 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u31	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, when you presented your general policy note for 2016, in the section on child poverty, you informed us of the call for a federal project "Children First". On page 55 of your policy note, we can read that "through this project, various cities and municipalities have been selected in order to create a platform for local consultation. This type of platform organises consultation and collaboration with a wide range of social actors: schools, day care centres, anti-poverty associations, sports associations, in order to detect difficult situations, to organise concrete assistance for children and, if necessary, to raise awareness". The first projects were launched in 2014, ended in 2015 and you announced that you had taken the budgetary measures to ensure continuity. Madam Secretary of State, let me ask you about the progress of this project. Almost a year and a half after the launch of the first projects, where are the actual projects of the selected cities? Could continuity have taken place for each of the cities? In the area of child poverty and work methodology, what progress has been made in the "Children First" project? What is the methodology adopted for monitoring this project? What suites do you hope for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u32	Mrs Thoron, thank you for your question. In November 2013, my predecessor launched the call for projects "Children First", a platform for local consultation for the prevention and detection of child poverty. This call for projects took place in implementation of the first national plan to combat child poverty, in which the Government encouraged CPAS to create a consultative structure at the local level, as you know, in order to be able to address the problem of child poverty in a multidisciplinary manner. Two million euros have been released for this call for projects. A total of 57 pilot projects were launched on 1 May 2014. The projects were selected after the closing of the widely distributed call for projects. All pilot projects took place over a 12-month period. Of the 57 pilot projects, 50 were supported by a CPAS. Seven LSUs also assumed the role of project promoter. In these seven consultation platforms, CPAS also played a leading role. In order to strengthen the sustainability of existing platforms for dialogue on child poverty, I decided to release one million euros in 2015 to extend the project "Children First". CPAS and associations that were selected in 2014 to carry out a project under the appeal could apply in May 2015, with a view to extending the subsidy for their project until December 31, 2015. Specifically, 49 of the 57 initial pilot projects requested an extension. A grant was granted to these 49 projects. The same extension procedure was initiated for the period from 15 December 2015 to 15 June this year. Of the 49 projects still in progress, 47 opted for extension. The final report of the September 2015 study on the global project "Children First", conducted by KPMG Advisory management Consulting comments on the main results of the evaluation exercise. The study analyses the approach used by the consultation platforms and the progress they have made during their pilot year. On this basis, good practices have been identified. A scenario was developed for the proper functioning of the consultation platforms and policy recommendations were developed for federal policy. The study can be consulted on the website of my administration, the Social Integration SPF. This study also highlights the need for sustainability and the structural anchoring of initiatives. That is why I am making every effort, bearing in mind the difficult budgetary context, to extend these projects until the end of 2016. I asked my administration to develop a vision for the future of the "Children First" project, which takes into account the study's recommendations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u33	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. This is very good news: 49 projects can continue until 2016. I'll go check out the study on your site. I congratulate you. I will be attentive to the follow-up and results of these projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u34	Madam Secretary of State, at the presentation of your policy note 2016, in the child poverty section, you announced the future drafting of a new national action plan to combat child poverty, in consultation with the federated entities. I imagine that you are aware that, since then, useful tools for the drafting of the plan have been adopted and disseminated, such as the recommendation adopted in the Senate Committee on Combating Child Poverty adopted in March 2016; the publication of the new UNICEF "Innocenti 13" report, which focuses on the inequality of children in rich countries, published in early April 2016; and a list of indicators for monitoring children's rights adopted by the National Commission on the Rights of the Child. Madam Secretary of State, the issue of child poverty is a key issue that must be a priority for everyone if we are to ensure a better future for our children, for our country. I would therefore like to ask you a few questions about the progress of the new national plan to combat child poverty. This plan cannot be adopted without the involvement of every level of power in our country – Regions and Communities. Knowing that the Senate has made progress on this issue, what is the status of ministerial consultations on child poverty and the drafting of the action plan? Could you provide us with a more precise agenda for future progress on this plan of vital importance for the future of our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u35	Mrs Thoron, for the administrative cooperation of the second national plan to combat child poverty, at the end of 2015, my administration, the SPF Social Integration, set up an ad hoc administrative working group on child poverty. The task of the working group was to draw up, under a jointly developed and supported procedure, a proposal for the second national plan to combat child poverty. The following administrations take part in the work, in close cooperation with the competent ministers: the Ministry of the German-speaking Community, the Wallonia Public Service, the Interdepartmental Directorate of Social Cohesion, the Brussels-Capital Observatory of Health and Social Affairs, the Departments of Welfare, Public Health and the Family of the Flemish authorities and the Social Integration SPF, which also coordinates the working group. The Observatory for Childhood, Youth and Youth Assistance also participated actively in the preparatory work. Given the work done in the Senate on this topic, this report will be an important source of information. The Administrative Working Group developed a road map for the preparation of the second national plan to combat child poverty. The following are the stages: the preparation of a first preliminary draft of the action plan by the ad hoc administrative working group, i.e. the Child Poverty Group; the accounting of the present - first draft of the action plan; consultation of stakeholders through the Belgian platform to combat poverty and social exclusion EU 2020. After consultation with academicians on the basis of the first administrative preliminary draft of the action plan, preparation of the second preliminary draft of the action plan which takes into account the recommendations gathered. Secondly, political accounting of the second draft of the action plan; finalisation of the action plan by the ad hoc administrative working group and, finally, presentation of the action plan. I hope that the overall process will be completed before the end of this year, but rather than focusing on an exact end date, I want this action plan to be a powerful national approach to the problem of child poverty. We must achieve this objective through a solid action plan, with concrete actions and, above all, commitments by all parties concerned in relation to its implementation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u36	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your very comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u37	If you agree and given that there is work in other committees, I give the floor to Mrs Dedry, who has two questions. You have the floor, Mrs. Dedry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u38	Madam Secretary, I had originally put this question to Minister De Block, but the question was referred to you. Again, I'm in a vicious circle. Meanwhile, my question is already very old. The question is about the fact that the chance of a lower birth weight is real in a baby whose mom is exposed to air pollution. There are studies on this from the University of Hasselt and the University of Maastricht, which have investigated the relationship between environmental factors of pregnant women and the health of their newborns. It has been shown that good air quality has an effect on this. There is also hope, because if air pollution falls below the limit set by the World Health Organisation, the risk of too low birth weight could fall by 40%. Madam Minister, in my question I refer to promises made in connection with the Dieselgate Committee, not by you, but by Minister De Block. However, you are part of the same government. Your colleague admitted in that committee that the poor air quality in our country has a serious impact on health. Madam Secretary, do you share your colleague's opinion? Will you take measures to better protect newborns from air pollution? Do you also support the recommendations we have made from the Dieselgate Committee on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u39	Mrs Dedry, Europe has been following a very ambitious air quality strategy for ten years. The bottom line is that by 2050 we must have the same air quality as before the industrial revolution, with intermediate targets to be met by 2030. Belgium has supported these two deadlines. More specifically, the emission ceilings set for each Member State, the reciprocity of reduction efforts between the twenty-eight Member States and rapid access to the best technologies for all should be pursued. In this context, my administration has taken note of the recent recommendations of the special committee Dieselgate. I can already confirm that they are fully in line with the European framework, as it is evolving, and in which the adoption of the package of European directives of the future air programme is central. I would also like to draw your attention to the air policy programme that I will present to the government. There will be a number of recommendations from the special committee. Finally, I have just decided, in consultation with Minister De Block and fellow ministers representing the Joint Inter-Ministerial Conference on Environment and Health, within the framework of the National Environmental Health Action Plan to finance an epidemiological follow-up programme on air pollution over the next three years. This will include monitoring nitrogen oxide and fine particulate matter. These data, as well as the studies to which you refer, are essential in order to measure the progress made and to determine the proportionality of the measures to be taken in the sectors concerned. This should take into account research and development needs and investment in less harmful technologies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u40	Thank you, Madam Secretary. That's a good thing. In Belgium, too, a study was launched, which was approved by the Inter-Ministerial Conference, which means that the Länder are involved. I have one small question. You mentioned your air quality policy programme. By when do we get to know about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u41	It's always the eternal question. As soon as possible, of course. But you know that in this area, I also work with federated entities and so all this takes time. As soon as something more precise happens, I will come back to you but you can also fix a new request in this matter and ask me again if you find the time too long.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u42	Madam Secretary, it is an important question in an important week, because it is the week of bees. There's a big problem with bee mortality. I have in front of me Flemish figures showing that this is a death rate between 30% and 35%. Pesticides, in particular neonicotinoids, are a major cause of bee mortality. Although the European Commission has introduced a moratorium on three harmful neonicotinoids, there are still far too many other neonicotinoids in circulation. The Ecolo Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has tabled a legislative proposal to improve the protection of the bee population. Additional studies on harmful effects on bees were also requested at European level. As Einstein once said, "Once the bees are extinct, man has a maximum of five years to live." That's disturbing. I therefore have a few questions, Madam Secretary. How high is bee mortality at Belgian level? How was evolution over the past few years? Are there regional or provincial differences? Do you have any results from the additional studies that are being carried out at European level? If no, when do you expect the results? Do you agree with me and my colleague Muriel Gerkens that, as a precaution, we should ban all harmful neonicotinoids in order to protect the bee population?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u43	Minister, I smile because I hear the translator, who is obliged to say "neonicotinoids" every time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u44	It's very difficult, and it's not just that; I still have two or three in the drawer. You'll see. You will hear three rather biscornus words, which will make four or five with neonicotinoids. Dedry, the European study 'Epilobee' conducted in Belgium by AFSCA, the Federal Food Safety Agency, investigated the mortality of domestic bees, both during winter and during the honey harvest season, from winter 2012-2013 to winter 2013-2014. This study was the first official monitoring of mortality in Belgium. Unfortunately, the European Commission has decided not to pursue this programme. The average mortality of bees in Belgium during the winter of 2012–13 was more or less 33%. During the winter of 2014, it was more or less 15%. These mortality figures are among the highest in Europe, which is not reassuring, and they correspond to figures calculated in previous studies conducted by several scientific groups in Belgium. As a result, bee mortality has been increasing since the early 2000s, with winter mortality even reaching more than 30% in recent years. Together with my colleagues, Ministers Borsus and De Block, we are currently preparing a second federal bees plan. In this context, the resumption of an official monitoring of the mortality of domestic bees is envisaged. Your questions 2 and 3 are more specifically within the jurisdiction of Minister Borsus. However, I can already tell you certain things. We used to share all this information together. I can confirm that at the request of the European Commission, the European Food Safety Agency will effectively update its risk assessments of three neonicotinoid pesticides for bees. These are Clothianidine, Imidaclopride and Thiamethoxame. This request is part of the 2013 moratorium, which led to the ban on the treatment of seeds and soils for attractive crops for bees, except under-land and winter cereals, and the ban on leaf treatments for crops that attract bees, with the exception of greenhouse and post-flowering crops. The update of these assessments, which will cover the use of these substances as seed and granule treatment, will be finalized by January 2017, in six months' time. Minister Borsus and I are also considering a study on the impact of chemicals on the mortality of domestic bees that would take into account the reality of the field in Belgium in the context of federal contractual research. FPS experts Public health, food chain safety and environment will rigorously review the latest data to make appropriate recommendations. The precautionary principle will apply as necessary in accordance with European and Belgian legislation. I am not yet at the ban stage, and I am not alone in this, because I work closely with Minister Borsus. But the precautionary principle will be installed if, at the end of the studies and the updating of the data, we feel that we have to do so, and in accordance with European and Belgian legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u45	Madam Minister, I am very pleased that you are putting forward the precautionary principle in your reply for the dossier of the "I apologize," translators "neonicotinoids." In any case, we will continue with our legislative proposal. I suppose you'll support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u46	The proposal is filed. We will normally defend her soon, before the holidays.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u47	Madam Minister, my question concerns the use of biocidal products. Since 20 May, every seller and user of biocidal products from the closed circuit has to register in Belgium. Subsequently, any sale, purchase and use of the biocidal products must also be recorded in accordance with the time limits laid down. This new obligation to register by the registered seller is in accordance with an adjustment of the Royal Decree. However, there are a lot of comments on this. Indeed, this would be a double registration and, according to some, unnecessary registration, because the registration must be done both by the seller and by the consumer. The Belgian online registration system would also go beyond the European Biocidal Products Regulation. The obligation to register in the online registration system of each purchase and any use by the farmer would, according to many, create an administrative burden for thousands of farmers and horticulturalists. Madam Minister, I would have liked to ask you the following questions. Do you know how the agricultural organizations were involved in the elaboration of this royal decision by you or your administration? Can you explain how the agricultural organisations were involved in the design and testing of the online registration system by you or your administration? It is said that the Belgian online registration system goes far beyond European rules. Is that right? If yes, why go beyond European legislation? Isn't that contrary to creating or maintaining a level European playing field? I would have liked to have heard your opinion on this. The extension of the closed system's registration system to end-users entails a considerable administrative burden, especially for farmers and horticulturalists, often one-man businesses or very small businesses. What arrangements have you made to help end-users fill in the online registration system? What communication has been set up towards the end user in order to inform himself and to set himself up as a rule? Has this been discussed with the agricultural organizations? How'd that go? The system has only been in place since May 20th. Do you already see how many end-users have already registered in the online registration system? There is therefore a double registration, both from the user and from the seller. What happens to the collected data? For what purposes are they used? To what extent does this administrative burden contribute to the correct use of the biocidal products of the closed circuit? It also takes much more time for the competent administration. What is the impact on your staff? The legislation also prescribes a set of obligations for the seller of biocidal products. The registered seller must already register any sale to the registered user in the online system. What added value do you consider to offer a double registration by the user? Are you prepared to seek, in consultation with the agricultural organisations, a solution that could lead to a much more limited administrative burden?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u48	Ms Dierick, the European Biocides Directive, Regulation No 528/2012 (BPR), specifies in Article 19, § 4, a set of criteria for biocidal products which must be permanently excluded from use by the general public. However, the OPI leaves Member States the freedom to determine how to apply this provision. The Royal Decree of 8 May 2014 introduced the system of the restricted circuit and free circuit for biocidal products. This mechanism must be regarded as the enforcement, in our country, of Article 19, § 4, cited above. The European Commission has not raised any objections to this system. However, other Member States may apply the same Article differently. The need to make this article legally binding at the national level also offered the possibility of abolishing the so-called "Class A biocides" system, which had recently been in force. This represented a considerable administrative burden for both sellers and users of these products and for the administration. Several sectors, including agriculture, have been able to benefit from a derogation in respect of certain aspects of Class A regulations, such as the obligation to prove its knowledge and to become what is known as an "approved user". However, the duty to register the biocidal products used was already applicable to them. This provision went beyond what is now required in the restricted circuit. In other words, we are convinced that the introduction of the closed circuit will not lead to an overall increase in the administrative burden for the undertakings concerned or for the administration. During the current launch period there is, of course, a peak for processing the one-off notification each company has to make, but the administration is prepared for this. The KB was also subjected to the Kafka test. Neither provided indications of unacceptable administrative burden for citizens, businesses or government. There has been a long-standing consultation with the federations of the chemical industry with the aim of smoothing the launch of the system. In order to ensure efficient communication of the closed circuit to local distributors and end-users, authorisation holders of the biocidal product concerned were asked to inform their customers. By means of a waterfall system, the information is then further disseminated. A summary brochure has been prepared that can be used for this purpose. In addition, the website www.circuitbiocide.be has been set up, which contains the more comprehensive information, both on the registration system itself and on the other obligations that apply within the closed circuit. One of these obligations is, moreover, that sellers of closed circuit biocidal products should inform their customers of the fact that they are buying such biocidal products and that they are subject to a registration requirement. However, sellers should never check themselves if a customer has signed up. Moreover, this is also an administrative simplification compared to the class A system, in which the authorised seller had to verify that his customer was an approved user. At present, more than 600 companies and organisations from a wide range of sectors have already registered as vendors or users of biocidal products from the closed circuit. The administration therefore concludes that the planned flow of information works. The data collected will be used to obtain a more complete picture of the presence of these risk biocides in the various industrial sectors concerned, including agriculture. The availability of more realistic information on these dangerous biocides will also raise the level of risk assessment, which is the basis of the authorisation policy. The training requirements that were in place for the Class A system are currently not being replaced. The intention is to do so only when the data collected show that there is a need to do so. In this case, regulatory and additional training needs can be defined in a more targeted and effective way. Because all sellers and users of these dangerous biocidal products have to make themselves known to the administration, they have the possibility to carry out targeted awareness and enforcement campaigns. For 2016 and 2017, the main focus will be on sensitisation. The first enforcement campaigns will focus on admission holders and traders. Enforcement specifically targeted at end-users is only to be dealt with at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u49	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I understand that you too are faced with this, because this was already approved before you became a minister yourself. I can understand that. I am getting signals from the workplace, from the field, which indicate that this really is a problem. Everyone agrees that biocidal products from the closed circuit present a high health risk. Appropriate precautions should therefore also be taken. The now mandatory double registration system really creates a lot of administrative nuisance for the professional user. I believe that consideration should be given to achieving a single registration by the seller and a one-off registration by the user. Such a system seems to me and to the sector more appropriate. The current system has such a large impact on the terrain that is well underestimated. This applies not only to agriculture and horticulture, for example, butchers and bakers also use these biocidal products daily to disinfect their counters. Moreover, I also get the signal that is unclearly communicated in the field. One leaflet contradicts the other in terms of info or periods of registration. Also what is on the website needs to be checked, so that everything can be matched. Another point that also lives on the ground is the fact that one was not involved in the formatting of the KB or testing of the online registration system. Now there is a monstrosity of a system of registration that causes a great deal of administrative nuisance, and the question can be asked as to whether double registration actually adds value. Madam Minister, I would therefore urge you not to ignore the signals from the field. Try to sit around the table with those involved and listen to their desires. Perhaps you will then consider an adjustment and a concession to the whole sector? In any case, we will continue to monitor this and also look at what we can do about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u50	Madam President, Mrs Dierick, I understand the situation very well, especially since before we put this system in place, we met – and that was the subject of your question – the farmers' associations. It may be necessary to expand to include small independents such as SME associations or in any case the sectors you have reported, butchers and bakers for example. We will organize new meetings. We have a practice of consultation with the sectors to see what is not working and eventually to set up – this was done at the level of the farmers' federation – aid cells to enable those who wish to do so to pass the stage of formalities more easily. The message you are relaying, we have heard it with the same force. Some are a little lost in this system and find that it makes an extra layer of paperwork and formalities. But normally, it should make things easier. This may be due to the additional administrative side, in relation to everything else in the trades concerned, on the one hand, and access via technology to this type of registration, on the other. We intend to meet them again. An assessment of the situation will be made on a next question if you have one. Give us some time to meet them. This is not always done in a very direct way. Come back to us in a few weeks so we can take stock together.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u51	Madam Minister, on 26 April, you invited the Federal Minister of Economy, as well as your regional counterparts, to a round table to examine the various possible measures to combat pollution related to the use of plastic bags, the aim of the meeting being to agree on how to comply with European Directive 2015/720, by which the Commission asks the Twenty-Nights to take the necessary steps to limit the annual use of light plastic bags. Minister, what progress has been made as a result of this meeting? To transpose the Directive I mentioned, the Commission leaves two options for Member States: either to ensure that the annual use of light plastic bags does not exceed 90 bags per person by 31 December 2019 or to impose a minimum price for light plastic bags by 31 December 2018. What option was preferred as a result of the meeting? What criteria did they guide this choice? Are other complementary options being considered?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, the round table I organised on 26 April last on the question of reducing the negative impacts of the use of single-use plastic bags and the coordinated response to the directive you mentioned took place in a very constructive atmosphere. Each had the opportunity to present its priorities and work in this area. From this meeting, I note the willingness of many actors to work together for harmonised legislation at Belgian level. I have thus recalled the scope of federal legislation in terms of placing products on the market, which allows for four things: firstly, to regulate, suspend or prohibit the placing on the market of a product (Article 5(1)); secondly, to encourage the placing on the market of reusable products (Article 5(1)); thirdly, to subject the placing on the market of a product or a category of products to other special conditions (Article 5(1)); fourthly, to take any other measures necessary for the implementation of the provisions of international conventions and/or acts binding on Belgium and relating to the placing on the market of products (Article 5(1)). There are therefore many opportunities for federal action. However, I believe that to be relevant, a ban on single-use plastic bags must be carried out in consultation with the entities of the country and economic actors. I have therefore proposed to work at a minimum price, as permitted by the Product Standards Act of 21 December 2008. This proposal was welcomed by a large majority of stakeholders. Since the beginning of negotiations on this directive, my services have been working very closely with regional administrations. It is clear that this collaboration will be continued during implementation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u53	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answer. I'm not gonna argue and go any further right now. If the federated entities have shared this view, I will also refer to developments at the level of federated entities. I would just like to point out one element in your answer that seems positive to me and on which we could or should work even more: the reusable one. It has been found in recent years that consumers have become accustomed, especially in large areas, to return with their reusable bag, since disposable plastic bags are no longer allowed. I believe that a continuation or follow-up of this proposal would be most welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u54	Minister, on May 2, the National Climate Commission (NCC) met under your chairmanship. During this meeting, various topics were discussed, such as the implementation of the commitments made under COP 21, the cooperation agreement on burden sharing - I will return to it in a following question - the latest trends in greenhouse gas emissions in our country or Belgium's future obligations under the European Energy Union. So far, I am not teaching you anything, Madam Minister, but can you provide us with an update on the decisions that have been taken on these various issues following this meeting of the CNC on May 2nd, knowing that for the time being the press has other concerns and that we do not have much information on this subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u55	Mr Senesael, in general, it is regrettable that the press does not make sufficient use of the information available to it on these matters. This is also the way to raise public awareness, Madam President, and, as you will agree with me, it is very difficult to interest the press. I regret it as much as you do. On the other hand, I thank you for your interest in the work of the National Climate Commission, whose importance is too often underestimated even though its strengthening was decided upon in the Sixth State Reform. I am now saying this in general terms and not just in the media. Indeed, it is the central body for cooperation between the Federal State and the three Regions in the field of national climate policy and monitoring of this policy. I personally had the honour of opening the meeting on 2 May. I really wanted to do so, calling in particular on my partners in this committee to make progress on the current issues and to start work without delay, with a view to drawing up a "low carbon" development strategy that we discussed yesterday, as we commit ourselves to under the Paris Agreement. I then followed with interest the statement made by Mr Stefaan Vergote, Head of Division within the Energy DG of the European Commission, who presented the framework for the Energy and Climate Union in relation to the national energy-climate plans which will form the pillar of the national climate-energy strategy for the period 2021-2030, with a view to decarbonising the economy. Mr Vergote reminded us, among other things, that the Energy Union is one of the ten priorities of the Juncker Plan and includes, among its five components, the development of a low-carbon economy. He informed the National Climate Commission that this year the European Commission would produce several legislative proposals in this context, including on the sharing of effort for the period 2020-2030, energy efficiency, renewable energy and the revision of the electricity market. The Energy Union will have a robust system of governance. This requires, in particular, the integration of the various political plans in the fields of energy and climate, and a better quality of them. The assessment of progress towards energy and climate policy objectives will take place every two years. National plans will need to be quantified, linking projections to policies and measures to quantify their impact, including costs, and highlighting the actions to be taken at all levels of power, as well as the interactions and coherence between these measures. A first draft of an integrated national plan is expected in 2017. The final plans are expected in 2018. The members of the National Climate Commission agreed to work closely with the CONCERE Group, which is responsible for the consultation between the Federal State and the Regions on energy policy, to draw up this plan, which is in the right direction. Mr Vergote has also confirmed to us that the framework for the system of governance will be the subject of a legislative proposal by the European Commission. With regard to the cooperation agreement between Burkina Faso and the United Kingdom, since 21 March the members of the CNC have had a joint project carried out by the lawyers of the four administrations, comprising about ten options which will have to be decided at the political level. The options have been reduced in the meantime, and the work is moving forward. He's almost finished. A major arbitration remains to be done on one element, and we hope to be able to close it in the near future. It was decided to carry out the work with a view to finalising the cooperation agreement in a small political working group; that is what we are doing. The aim is to have the agreement adopted by the Conciliation Committee before the parliamentary holidays so that it can be endorsed by the four parties and published in the Belgian Moniteur as soon as possible. The latest trends in greenhouse gas emissions were also presented at the meeting. They confirm a decrease in all sectors except transport, due to the continued increase in road traffic, and in the tertiary sector, due to the increase in the number of employees. The transport sector is now the largest emitter sector in Belgium, and it is on it that we must focus our efforts. With regard to the National Adaptation Plan, members of the National Climate Commission expressed the wish to adopt it as soon as possible. The federal government is committed to communicating without delay the amendments it wishes to make to the draft plan. A review of COP21 had been presented at the previous meeting on 16 February. Members of the National Climate Commission were asked to learn about the commitments arising from the Paris Agreement and their involvement at the national level. In order to strengthen the links between national and supranational levels, the Greenhouse Effect Group of the Committee for the Coordination of International Environmental Policy (CCPIE) will regularly inform the National Climate Commission of developments at international and European levels which have concrete implications for national policy or which may require action by the National Climate Commission. Finally, I would like to point out that documents relating to the meetings of the National Climate Commission (agendas, decisions, presentations) are available on the Commission's website.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u56	Madam Chair, sincerely, I welcome the elements of the Minister's response. Some of them seem to me to be positive; I think, for example, of the evaluation that will take place every two years or of the 2017-2018 timetable that she presented. These elements are in the right direction, and I would like to stress this in a positive way. Minister, you are seeing the issue of greenhouse gases with the transportation sector. You say that this is the area where efforts will have to be made. Efforts to reduce these greenhouse gases may now need to be made. You are referring to the website of the National Climate Commission. We know this site and we also know that among the answers you bring, we find elements that are not necessarily included in it. It is therefore always interesting to know your position on this matter. I thank you for these first elements of the answer that go in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u57	I am pleased to be able to take stock on a more regular basis, in addition to the information on the site. With the European policy of linking energy and climate policies, we have a very interesting vehicle for moving forward. This will go a long way through the work on the Energy Pact, you understand that. As far as the transport problem is concerned, my colleague François Bellot was barely installed that I was already talking to him about the modal shift. You can be sure that I will return regularly to him. He has a lot of work to do right now, we have to give him time to settle down and do what is urgent in his duties, but he already knows that I am attentive and demanding about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u58	Minister, I will still ask my question, although you have already answered the first part of it. At the beginning of December, the Federal and the Regions reached political agreement on the distribution of the climate targets to be achieved by our country in the framework of the Energy-Climate package 2013-2020. This text has yet to materialize legally in a cooperation agreement, the outline of which you have just described. Secondly, this cooperation agreement will have to go before the Conciliation Committee and the parliamentary assemblies. Minister, can you take stock of the process for the development of the cooperation agreement? What points of divergence still need to be resolved politically? I realized there was at least one left. When will this agreement be presented to the Consultation Committee? You've already told me it would be as soon as possible. On the other hand, in financial terms, what are the amounts resulting from the auction of emissions allowances accumulated to date? Have the federal and the regions received a share of this revenue or is this issue still under negotiation? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u59	Mr Senesael, I have already answered your questions in part. That is why I will address directly the point that is still being discussed in the drafting of the cooperation agreement. First of all, these are the penalties for the federal state for failing to meet its commitments to which we must go for 2020 and which we agreed on 4 December 2015 – as you will recall. This is also the selling price of any surplus that the Regions would have accumulated and would like to sell either to another Region or to third parties. I am still thinking of the nature of the so-called "fuel surplus" issue and of the actions that the federal state is able to take to remedy it. At the time of writing, we were a little less advanced than we were now. Today we are at the centre - as you can imagine - of the problem of solidarity between entities in case of surplus or, on the contrary, lack and how to resolve it between us before 2020. It should be noted that intermediate states, each year or every two years, depending on greenhouse gases or renewables, are assessed within the National Climate Commission that receives the reporting. There, you can virtually find solidarity – it's easy because there is no money – to upgrade. But in the end, in 2020, we will have to do the accounting. The question is how we're going to make them and what currency we're going to exchange. You can imagine that this question is not easy to solve. However, it must be resolved in order for this agreement to have the necessary robustness. With regard to revenues from the auction of accumulated emissions allowances to date, there are no longer negotiations. This was done on December 4, 2015. It's done! Their amount was EUR 399 320 635.10 as of 20 May 2016. This amount corresponds to the cumulative revenue since 2013. Each month, about EUR 10 million is added depending on the price of the quotas. On October 2, 2012, the National Climate Commission approved the opening of a postal account to collect these revenues. This decision was endorsed by the Interdepartmental Extended Environment Conference on October 11, 2012. The opening of the account was approved, in particular, provided that the revenues from auctioning in the frozen account were frozen until a cooperation agreement was reached on their allocation. It's done. Other legal conditions under the Act of 22 May 2003 on the organization of the Federal State's budget and accounts also require the payment of revenue to the Regions and the Federal State. It is therefore not the substantive agreement that is problematic. These are conditions that I would call budgetary and accounting, stemming from the Act of 22 May 2003 which are still lacking for the payment of what belongs to each entity, according to what was decided on 4 December 2015. I signed the documents earlier. I normally go to the Council of Ministers with this file. I hope I can make the settlements, the payment incessantly. Of course, if I have a message to convey, Mr Senesael, and I know that you are very well conveying the messages, we should still agree on this history of solidarity between the federated entities and close the cooperation agreement to do both at the same time. That wouldn't be bad! In addition, with a view to COP22 in Marrakech, we are still not going to drag this issue so far to reach an agreement eight days from COP22, when we can do so now. There are, of course, always small tirings, because there is money at stake. It's the other money: it's the sale of surplus. But let's get the right messages out. I'm paying faster as things work out. I come back to the administrative and accounting steps to be taken so that everything can be completed in order. In practical terms, it is necessary to await the entry into force of the Cooperation Agreement in order to be able to make the payment of revenue. I still think, in relation to what I have just said, that we can move faster on the other points. I did find a way to get faster. However, at the meeting of the National Climate Commission on 2 May 2016, the Regions had requested to explore options for early payment of a first instalment prior to the entry into force of the cooperation agreement. I looked for it, and I found it. On Friday, 3 June, I will request a mandate from the Council of Ministers to release as soon as possible some of the revenues from the auctioning of CO2 emissions allowances so that they can still be used this year. But my cooperation agreement text needs to be advanced in order to be sent to all the federated entities that will then send it each to the Council of State and bring it before their parliament, in such a way that this agreement will become part of our legislation. It'll be very important. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u60	Madam President, Minister, I am pleased that the federal government's accounting rules will allow the payment of these 399 million in the near future. I think that this money will be necessary and important. Secondly, I understand your strategy well. I've been more than attentive and the message is well held. On the other hand, it still seems to me that the idea you have... You may sometimes disagree with your policies, but you always have to be honest intellectually. One can take important steps by releasing a first slice to show that goodwill, as you have pointed out. This could also facilitate the signing of this cooperation agreement. In any case, humbly and modestly, if I can bring my little stone to the building, I will.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u61	Minister, as nanotechnology develops, nanomaterials have applications in health, electronics, cosmetics, textiles, information technology and environmental protection. With their growing presence in our daily lives, nanomaterials require a specialized risk assessment. This should cover both the health risks to workers and consumers and the potential risks to the environment. On 29 September 2014, the Royal Decree on the placing on the market of nanoparticle manufactured substances was published. Pursuant to this Order, companies must register nanomaterials that they have been placing on the market since 1 January 2016. Minister, after a few months of operation, what lessons can be learned from the mandatory registration of nanomaterials placed on the market? Are companies sufficiently informed of this obligation? That's not what I get from the field. Is this obligation met? Finally, what are the next steps to use this register to better identify and reduce the health and environmental risks associated with these nanomaterials?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u62	Dear colleague, to your first question, I will reply that everything worked well after the few months of start-up thanks to the good cooperation of the companies. We note that a large number of companies outside Belgium have also contributed to this in order to simplify the lives of their downstream users. The 300 records have been crossed and cover more than 150 different substances. More than 50 types of use have been recorded. The contribution of each category of registrant is as follows: 44,6 % of suppliers outside Belgium, 0,8 % for specific purposes, 30,5 % of importers, 9,9 % of distributors, 9,2 % of producers. As regards companies and their level of information in relation to this obligation, the SPF – know it – has involved the sectors in the establishment of this register since the Scoop study in 2013 and still today in order to ensure its smooth functioning as much as possible. The service responsible for this database has also organized several meetings in the presence of companies from all over the country. Guidance documents are available and provide guidance on the interpretation of the Royal Order and practical manuals. Based on the number of substances registered, the service in charge of this database considers that the obligation has been met. It should be recalled that the implementation of this register is not currently mandatory at European level and that only Belgium, France and Denmark, as pioneers, have embarked on this project. Good cooperation with the sector is essential and sought by my administration so that this register can serve as a model for a future European register. With regard to your third and final question, in 2017, we will have a clearer view of the volumes of substances produced or placed on the market in the form of manufactured nanomaterials, since each year from January to March, users of the database are required to update the quantities and professional uses of their registered substances, which will enable the Public Health FPS to ensure their traceability throughout the value chain. This register also allows the flow of information on manufactured nanomaterials within companies to workers. Once the register is fully implemented, it will allow for a rapid response by the authorities if risks are identified with certain substances. Indeed, the register will be able to quickly identify the uses, the undertakings concerned and the volumes present in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u63	I have nothing to add, Madam President, but to congratulate the Minister on the quality of her response.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u64	Madam Minister, there are several providers of private wood pellets machines on the market today. These machines allow individuals to make pellets of their own waste material. I would like to quote the website of such a provider: at home make biomass pellets of pruning waste, grass, leaves, sawdust, corn, old paper and garden waste, with our wood pellets machines this is child's work. The pellets can then simply be used in each pellet stove or pellet kettle. The providers claim that this is good for the environment, but basically it means that waste is fired up and that substances are released. I give another quote: if biomass is used, the combustion of the pellets will be more aggressive and the normal inox exhaust of stainless steel can be affected. If, of course, this is due to stainless steel, then I fear some of the effects on the environment, let alone on the neighbour's lungs. The Royal Decree of 5 April 2011 lays down standards for wood pellets for non-industrial heaters. Of course such pellets do not meet the conditions, at least that is what I am assuming. So it's actually pure waste incineration. Madam Secretary, what standards are in force for the private production of wood pellets? Can these pellets be used on the basis of federal law, given the conditions set out in the Royal Decree? What initiatives do you wish to take?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u65	Mr Wollants, I share your concern about such initiatives, which are intended to burn garden waste in household incinerators. The impact of pollutants on air quality, health and heaters will depend on the nature of the waste used itself. The Royal Decree of 5 April 2011 is intended to ensure the proper functioning of the heaters by reducing pollutant emissions by the use of wood from sustainably managed forests. In reply to your first question, there are no quality standards for the private production of wood pellets other than those provided for in the Royal Decree. As far as your second question is concerned, the use of organic waste-based biomass pellets is not covered by the decision. It should also be noted that waste policy is a regional competence. As regards your third question, since the Royal Decree only applies to wood and does not say anything about other types of biomass, I ask my administration to draw up a note on the possible traces of thinking for a regulatory framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u66	Madam Minister, I welcome your answer that we need to address the issue, because it is indeed possible to damage the environment. Moreover, those who comply with the rules and produce high-quality pellets should not be subject to competition from that type of waste incineration. It's no good to anyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u67	Question nr. 11201 of Mrs Temmerman is transformed into a written question. I think we are going to turn Mr Foret's question No 11633 into a written question, unless it happens while I am asking my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u68	Madam Minister, my question concerns the policies put in place against illegal trade in timber, particularly from Cameroon. Belgium is one of the main importing countries, together with Italy, of Cameroonian wood in the European Union. A recent study by the British think tank Chatham House found that illegal logging remains a serious problem in Cameroon, that corruption is widespread in the forestry sector and that there seems to be a lack of will to effectively address these problems. In addition, a recent assessment of the forest sector by an independent auditor also highlighted regulatory compliance issues in the sector, stating that no forest permits fully complied with the legality criteria established during the negotiations of the partnership agreement between the European Union and the Cameroonian government. In 2015, Greenpeace released a report on illegal logging in Cameroon, in particular on the Compagnie de Commerce et de Transport, whose timber was found in Belgium, the Netherlands and Spain. According to Greenpeace, the Compagnie de Commerce et de Transport obtains supplies from companies related to illegal logging. On 8 March, the competent authority of the Netherlands, Nederlandse Voedsel en Warenauthoriteit announced that it had imposed a conditional penalty on a Dutch operator and had forwarded the case to the Public Prosecutor's Office, explicitly referring to Greenpeace's report. This is one of the first sanctions imposed in the European Union on the basis of this regulation. The Dutch authority mentioned on this occasion that, because of the political situation in the Congo Basin, Cameroon's timber can only be placed on the market if the importer has taken sufficient mitigation measures to ensure that the risk of illegal exploitation is negligible. Like our courageous half-time official in charge of combating the illegal timber trade, you have received this report. Moreover, you said in committee that necessary follow-up would be given. In view of the Dutch action, could you tell us whether the Belgian authority has carried out checks on operators who import the timber of the Compagnie de Commerce et de Transport du Cameroun? More generally, what is the number of checks on Cameroonian wood? What have been the results? Has Belgium taken any measures regarding the non-application of the Timber Regulation to importers of this Cameroonian wood? It is indeed difficult to imagine that, following a finding of illegality, followed by sanctions taken by the Netherlands, we did not act. Finally, has your request to supplement the staff of your cell "fight against illegal timber trade" been met?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u69	Mrs Gerkens, first of all, allow me to jointly answer the first two questions you ask me. The competent authority's control plan is mainly based on customs data on imports of products covered by Regulation 995/2010. These data do not include the names of exporters or companies that are even more upstream of the supply chain. Therefore, we found it impossible to provide a list of Belgian importers of wood from the Commerce and Transport Company of Cameroon on the basis of data provided by the customs and excise administration. We also use information provided by third parties, such as those contained in the reports of various NGOs, as I have already told you. The measures we can take in this case depend on the degree of accuracy of this information, of course. With regard to Greenpeace's information about this CTC company in Cameroon, so always in this specific context, I would like to refer you first to my answer to Parliamentary question 151, which was asked by your colleague Nollet on 17 September 2015, and to my answer to point 5 of oral question No 7058 of 26 October 2015, which you yourself addressed to me. Since that date, all the undertakings mentioned in this report which are actually regarded as operators within the meaning of the Regulation have been checked. The second part of your first question concerns the control of wood coming from Cameroon in general. On the basis of import data from 2013 to 2015, wood from Cameroon accounts for 2.4% of the total volume of products covered by the European Transport Regulation and imported by Belgian operators. The checks carried out under Article 4.2 of this Regulation do not concern the legality of certain specific consignments of wood, but the conformity of the due diligence system, which must cover all products placed on the market by an operator. You know this system; we've already talked about it together. The control register in which the competent authority records the information relating to these checks pursuant to Article 11 of the Regulation does not at present contain the precise origins of the consignments of wood used to illustrate the functioning of the due diligence exercised by the operators. This control register is currently regularly shared with the NGO Greenpeace. Furthermore, the CITES Service, responsible for the implementation of the CITES Convention in Belgium, systematically checks with the Cameroonian administration the legal origin of timber and the validity of CITES export permits issued in the context of exports from Cameroon to Belgium, of wood from Afrormosia, a species protected by CITES and therefore not subject to the European transport regulation I mentioned above. In 2013, an inspection carried out jointly with the customs authorities of the port of Antwerp led to a significant seizure of Afrormosia from Cameroon from a Belgian importer. Indeed, this wood had been imported without the CITES documents required by the CITES regulations of the European Union. This wood, however, did not come from the CTC company in Cameroon. In response to your third question, for the reason explained, we are not in a position to establish, now, a list of Belgian importers from a particular foreign company. As far as your fourth question is concerned, following the publication of the press release by the Dutch authority, the Belgian competent authority contacted us to verify whether we could use the information it had to take measures also in Belgium. After further explanation by the Dutch authority, it turns out that this first sanction follows a second non-compliant inspection of the same undertaking which has already been issued an official warning in the past and which has not taken it into account in order to improve its due diligence system. The question that you raise raises the problem of the common interpretation at European level of the quality of due diligence systems. The report on the evaluation of the implementation of these regulations published last February by the Commission also notes this point and its impact on the distortion of competition. As announced in the Committee on Public Health and the Environment on 2 March, we will request, in the context of the revision of this Regulation, that, in accordance with Article 6(3) of the Regulation, the Commission first draw up delegated acts, in accordance with Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, concerning additional relevant risk assessment criteria, with a view to ensuring the effectiveness of the reasoned due diligence system, based, for example, on internationally recognised risk management standards. The Belgian companies controlled so far are asking for recommendations for improvement given the considerable scope for interpretation that this regulation generates. To this end, last September, I brought together the various actors involved in this regulation, in order to structure a framework for consultation between different stakeholders, leading to a concerted assessment of the risks associated with illegal timber harvesting in certain regions, as well as possible mitigation measures. We hope to secure – we have not yet achieved this – the support of all the actors involved, in particular NGOs, in order to continue this project. Finally, in response to your last question, the 2016 budget adjustment unfortunately does not provide for any additional resources for DG Environment, despite the repeated request, which I will continue to repeat, of eight additional full-time equivalents for inspection.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u70	Thank you, Madam Minister. It did seem to me that I had not seen any budget increase for staff. We will turn to other ministers, however, to achieve this strengthening. Indeed, it is impossible to meet these obligations properly without sufficient staff, whatever the will and whatever the content of the regulations. For the rest, I agree with you in the need to improve the definition of criteria, techniques to assess compliance with due diligence obligations and the consistency of the method used. It is true that we are in permanent difficulty and are wondering how to ensure that an importer complies with its obligations and does not import timber illegally brought by an exporter – a company or a state. In addition, illegal exploitation should be avoided. At the same time, we are required to check and have sufficient information on what is happening there. I really find it a pity that there is not, in Belgium, even if it is within administrative departments and not in the public sphere, at least one possibility for the supervisory officials to be able to establish systematically the link between the companies that import and those that export to our country, so as to be able to cross the data. Without this ability to cross, we lose a large number of means of action either vis-à-vis our importers or vis-à-vis States where the rules are not respected. In my view, this must also be part of the demands to be made. Is the lack of such data and the cross-checking of data specific to Belgium or is it widespread within the European States participating in these settlement agreements?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u71	It's an interesting question, which we're going to indaguer. In this way, we will have an answer and see what is done elsewhere. I think it is useful, and without giving you any advice, to ask the Minister of Finance in charge of Customs about the creation or possible existence of customs forms that would make this link and begin to build an interesting database.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u72	Indeed, it is necessary to be able to cross-check these different data in order to take effective action, in the same way that we must be able to cross-check them with data from outside observers such as Greenpeace.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u73	We are already doing this and it has produced some results. That's how we try to work with them. I repeat that I understand that as a pressure group, they want to see their independence fully institutionalized, but working together also allows us to move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u74	Working collaboratively can be done without necessarily signing the same documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u75	A charter is not a binding document. I'm not going to explain that to you. It is a document of good intentions and it resembles everything we do in international law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u76	Yes, but at the same time, it is necessary to identify and maintain different roles and obligations to respect independence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u77	We can write it, but I think that writing it is superfluous because it is already happening in fact. I think it is the visibility that is sought through this, you have to be honest. The one who discovers something that he can put forward justifies his action. I observe that at the level of the administration, because of its character, there is sobriety and reserve. It does not pose any problem that Greenpeace continues to say that it is they who have found it. That is not the reason why we should not cooperate. I find this reaction a little retrograde.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u78	I hope you find a way to organize your collaborations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u79	An alchemical philter, maybe!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u80	Sometimes even obvious things have to be rewritten, about independence, their ability to denounce, criticise, even if we are faced with actors who sometimes do the utmost but do not do it properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u81	We did, we were right to the point.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u82	It is also possible to keep actors who are not bound by a charter. This does not change the relevance of the tool and the evolution. I don't know how you're planning to develop the next one.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u83	I use all the channels through which I can pass the message. And here I take advantage of this committee to do so. If you have any personal connection with this organization, it would be worth passing on the message in order to move forward. It doesn't make me hot or cold. Bravo Greenpeace! That is no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u84	All right, we're going to investigate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u85	This would be a good way to touch the heart of the timidity of young girl Greenpeace shows about these commitments, which are human commitments, in good faith, and not binding.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u86	Together with organizations other than Greenpeace, we have seen in the United States that, when associations with charters to undertake energy studies and research were integrated into groups bringing together public authorities and companies – but the links between elected officials and the sectors active in oil and arms are not regulated in the same way as at home – they were very easily losing their relevance and recognition as independent actors. Therefore, it is important to preserve this independence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u87	The heads of companies concerned with this issue could make the same speech by saying: "What interest would I have in signing this charter?" But they do. It's not bad, though.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u88	Yeah, because there's a rule to follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u89	That is, we agree to work together to achieve the same goal. This is a charter: a cooperative text oriented towards a common goal of improvement. It's as simple as that. I don't see where the problem is.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u90	We will investigate and insist that you have the necessary staff to improve registrations and data cross-checks with customs authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic432x.u91	Thank you, Madam President!
