ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u1	Minister, the employment rate in Belgium is at a rate of 23% for men and even 28% for women on the basis of a migration background. Unfortunately, this gap is larger in Belgium than in any other EU Member State. The OECD sees an important causal link with discrimination, which is still a structural problem in our country. In my group's view, it is a question of political will to address discrimination in a targeted way and to create additional instruments. Out of self-interest, it is high time to work on this. The government is the first to be responsible for drafting and enforcing legislation on discrimination. Your proposal to use the so-called mystery calls was not accepted by the government. However, the majority has drawn up a resolution aimed at introducing targeted checks on discrimination in the labour market. After several debates and hearings, my group decided to give the government the benefit of the doubt and to vote in favour of this resolution. After all, the majority undertook to implement that resolution as soon as possible and to take the necessary legislative and other initiatives by 31 December 2015. It is more than time for an evaluation of the initiatives taken. Where do you stand with the introduction of a system of targeted controls at the federal government as an employer? Have you consulted with other public authorities on targeted controls in all public institutions, public sector bodies and bodies that are heavily funded by public funds? What is the outcome of this consultation? Has the cooperation agreement between Unia and the General Directorate of Supervision of Social Laws been evaluated? What proposals will be made to improve this evaluation? As a minister, you would encourage the social partners to develop a system of self-regulation in all sectors. Has this been discussed? What was the result of that? In which sectors have collective agreements been concluded with a view to introducing a code of conduct on discrimination and setting up a system of self-regulation and self-monitoring? What progress has been made with the development of a system whereby the social partners, despite self-regulation in specific companies, continue to establish indications of discrimination, automatically deliver the results of self-regulation to the General Directorate for the Supervision of Social Laws? Do you see a system whereby targeted controls on companies are possible as a stick behind the door when they continue to discriminate persistently despite self-regulation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u2	A year ago, Minister, you argued for targeted checks or mystery calls to be referred to as "anyone" as he or she wants to do in order to tackle the problems of discrimination in the labour market and, if necessary, to eradicate them with stick and root. You made that proposal for the first time. The majority then adopted a resolution with the support of the opposition. Several proposals were launched. Some of them relate to the targeted checks or the mystery calls. We have deliberately taken steps in the resolution. Sensitisation and self-regulation are good. If it is found that certain sectors do not come to this, or have a lack of self-regulation, then action can be taken. The same applies to the sectors in which there is self-regulation. Federgon is a good example of this. The majority of its companies are doing well, but a number of other companies continue to cause a problem. That is why the resolution states that these companies and also those sectors which do not do self-regulation can be passed on to the inspection. The inspection can then perform targeted checks, practical tests or mystery calls. The resolution refers to targeted controls. The intention is to provide evidence so that there is a possibility of prosecution. The resolution states that the company will first have the opportunity to remediate. The first step is therefore awareness and self-regulation. If that doesn't happen, the company will be passed on to the inspection. Then there will be no immediate punishment. The company can demonstrate, through SMART measures, specific, measurable, feasible, realistic and time-bound.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If it succeeds, there is no problem. For the small group that continues to discriminate persistently, targeted controls can be carried out. They must be finally decided by the court. That system is included in the resolution. In practice, the companies score particularly badly in the field of hiring people with ethnic roots. Belgium is the worst pupil of the European class and is dangling at the bottom of 28th place. Something must be done about that. I have the following questions. Where do you stand with the implementation of the resolution, in particular with regard to the establishment of a dialogue to conclude collective agreements in order to establish a code of conduct? To what extent have you made progress? What actions are you planning? The government would also provide for a system whereby the social partners would automatically deliver the results of self-regulation to the Social Inspectorate in the event of indications of discrimination. The potential offender would then be given a time limit to set itself as a rule, with the employer having to prove that he has taken clear measures. I was just talking about these SMART measures. If this is not possible, anonymous checks or targeted checks can be carried out. We expressly included in our resolution that this should have been done last year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u3	Mrs Lanjri, I would ask you to go to the essentials because you are entitled to 2 minutes 30 to ask your question and 5 minutes have already passed! This is not correct with your colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u4	Mr Minister, I would like to ask about the state of play.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u5	Mr President, I will keep it shorter. Minister, we recently had the Eurostat publication of 6 June 2016 on the activity rate of non-EU citizens. It has shown that, although this is no surprise to us, we still have a very long way to go for certain groups of opportunity, despite the resolution that we put out together a year ago. So we are lagging behind for people with a migration background. To a previous question from Mr Van Quickenborne on the same subject, you replied that you are initially looking at self-regulation within the relevant sectors. Discrimination in recruitment is a problem common to all sectors. We must therefore tackle the problem widely, not only in the service cheque sector, which we have already discussed extensively, but also in the mystery calls that are present in this sector. I have three specific questions. What results have been achieved one year after the resolution was adopted? What points of the resolution have already been implemented and which have not yet been implemented? Are there sectors other than the service cheque sector that have reached an agreement and where targeted checks will soon be carried out? Where are we on the evaluation of anti-discrimination legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u6	Minister, an undercover reportage of the Koppen TV programme in 2012 and a study of the Minority Forum in 2015 showed that more than 60% of service cheque companies responded to customers' demands for discrimination. Majority over minority condemned this behavior in the strongest terms. In the meantime, we're a year away. Unfortunately, discrimination for many people in Flanders remains daily costs. A concrete example was recently published in the press. Mohamed Kabendji, 27 years old, is a Brusselser of Algerian descent. Despite his degree in computer graphics, his more than average computer knowledge and the dozens of application letters he sent, he didn't get a single answer. He is young and ambitious, has a degree and speaks the language. Still, 27-year-old Mohamed couldn't find a job. And so, according to the 27-year-old man, there was nothing but a formal change of name. Suddenly he was Kyan and the answers to his letters came in. Two weeks later, he had a job, and now he's getting offers from the flesh. Exactly a year ago, a resolution of the majority parties was adopted in plenary. This resolution focused on self-regulation and awareness-raising. The door was opened to mystery calls, but only in the public sector. There is certainly still a great deal to be done about raising awareness. By emphasising self-regulation, discriminatory companies are thrown out of business. We want the government to set up a system of comparative testing, which enables us to objectively identify discrimination and effectively punish it. Everywhere there is discrimination, we must be able to eradicate it. That is the only way to combat these problems effectively. Minister, what are the results of this government's policy against discrimination? Do you agree that using self-regulation does not produce the expected results? Are you prepared to examine the slopes to set up an equality agency that systematically carries out discrimination tests to consistently detect and eradicate discrimination in our labour market?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these are many questions that I hope will be able to answer adequately. That's gonna come out in a minute. In line with the track policy developed in the resolution, self-regulation within relevant sectors is now being pursued in the first place, which was also so agreed. The social partners of the Joint Committee 23.01 were the first to take the initiative to develop action points on this subject in various areas, so that there is a global approach. These are both initiatives which the social partners will take in the context of sectoral consultation and recommendations to the relevant authorities and other bodies on the subject. Discussions started in June 2015 and are ongoing. The reports which I receive regularly from the chairman of the joint committee concerned show that there has already been considerable progress. I am hopeful that an agreement will be reached and I will, of course, take the recommendations of the sectoral social partners very seriously. I would also like to say explicitly that we are not only following the matter closely; if no agreement is reached at the end of this month, we will take our own initiative. We have given sufficient time for discussion by the social partners of the joint committee concerned. Time is running out, because the end of the month is no longer far away. If the discussions produce a good result, again, I have good hope for this, we can test, evaluate and encourage other sensitive sectors to do the same exercise, which, of course, always takes some time. As you know, in the meantime, I have been applying certain practices in which I believe on a regular basis. This method is that I do everything I can to ensure that a negotiated agreement between sectoral social partners is given the time and space, because they are the ones who must ultimately implement the agreement. Once the agreement is reached, we can move forward step by step. Like some of the committee members, I am going for a long-term result. I want to prevent the execution of agreements from remaining dead letter. So we will continue to work on the phased approach. In the end, this could lead to a legal initiative. The latter will, once again, depend on the outcome of the social consultation and on the way in which the administration of the Social Laws can respond to this within its legally available investigative powers, without any legal amendment if it can, with a legislative amendment if it has to. I think it is still a little early to be able to assess whether there is a need for further legislative amendment. Any effective anti-discrimination policy must ultimately have an effective enforcement tool. In the absence of an enforcement instrument, the effectiveness of anti-discrimination policies will also be affected. In the meantime, my monitoring department has agreed with its contacts at the former Centre for Equal Opportunities and the fight against racism, now Unia, to sit with them and the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men as soon as the internal reorganisation is complete, and to see how the implementation of targeted controls could be technically initiated in the future, and what role Unia and the Institute could play in this direction and/or support. That is an important step and an important element of the dossier. It will also be an opportunity to review and, if necessary, adapt the cooperation protocol between the Monitoring of Social Laws and the former Centre in accordance with the outcome of the sectoral self-regulation agreements. The more recent cooperation agreement between the TSW and the Institute can also be refined if necessary. The TSW, as you have already understood, is the Department of Supervision of Social Laws. There was already a more recent cooperation agreement and this can be further refined with the Institute. With regard to the creation of an equality agency, which some argue for, I can say that Unia, the former Centre for Equality of Opportunities and the fight against Racism, will soon come forward with an evaluation of anti-discrimination policies or legislation. It is important to put everything on the table, but not without a knowledge of the facts, in favour of an additional agency. We have to deal with this very carefully, even because it obviously has a budgetary implication. When this evaluation is available, we can certainly have that debate as far as I am concerned. Of course, these hundreds of thousands of checks do not solve everything. For example, do we take the sector of service cheques that has also been covered: there the customer is a private individual who is not a regular employer. An investigation of the user necessitates entry into his private world. This is virtually impossible and not desirable. In the case of temporary workers, this problem is less prominent. The customer is almost always a company. Moreover, this sector has now come a long way. Self-regulation is therefore necessary. As I have just pointed out, I am not excluding a legal initiative, but I am also doing so as far as possible in consultation with the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u8	Minister, given the multiplicity of questions, I can understand that you took a little more time to answer them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u9	Minister, I can partly understand the argument that the necessary time has to be taken to do well, but on the other hand we are already in trouble with timing. We need to be clear about that. We didn't make it to December 2015. At the end of the resolution it is also stated that within two years the whole system, described in detail by Mrs Lanjri, must be introduced in the sectors and companies where there are problems. Actually, we only have one year left for that. That's very tight. I understand that there are discussions currently taking place in one sector which I hope will be completed. One sector isn't much. Then hopefully let them be an example. This is going to be at the expense of a lot of people, elderly people and young people, who are really doing their best, but who are losing a lot of lust and faith in our society because, ultimately, the opportunities they do seize will lead to little. I would therefore urge you to do what you can.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u10	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u11	Dat is eén sector. I do not think you have really answered my question about the federal government, which is going to carry out targeted controls itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u12	Minister, in the resolution we have clearly followed the two tracks. On the one hand, there is self-regulation from the sectors. That is where it is important to conclude collective agreements. On the other hand, this is not a trace that can only be followed afterwards. It is necessary to give very clear the supervision of the Social Laws the legal framework or the possibility to intervene through targeted checks. You could take that initiative now because we already see in the field that sectors such as Federgon have had self-regulation for more than two years. If the instrument of inspection is developed now, it can also be applied. We will not have to wait until the two years are over. Develop the instrument already, give the inspection Supervision of Social Laws the legal framework to be able to intervene. Please make this work already, don't wait. Mr Hedebouw, you are completely wrong. The resolution that we have proposed makes it possible for these targeted controls to be carried out both in the public sector and, of course, in the private sector, albeit after a whole cascade of measures. We are giving people and sectors an effective chance to work on self-regulation, then on remedial action, then on a plan together with the inspection, and then on a case-by-case basis we can take legal action. However, it is possible that these targeted inspections may also apply to the private sector. I would therefore ask that we do not say things that are not correct or that we do not misrepresent things.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I agree with the interpretation or clear reading of the resolution that we drew up last year. I understand that the approach is gradual and that it is first sought to consult with at least one sector which is already doing a great deal of work. However, it is a broader problem. We cannot, of course, continue to wait on this point with the other authors. I have therefore noted a commitment on your part: if sectoral social dialogue does not lead to solutions, you will have the primacy of politics and take an initiative, which I can only support in this dossier and in other dossiers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u14	Minister, I am not interested in texts but in facts. Mrs Lanjri, after a year, my bilan is that we predicted a year ago that this step-by-step approach would serve as an excuse not to take action now. That's what's happening. We're working on one sector. We know the problem is so big. I would rather think that we agree that the resolution left the problem open. Apparently, they're jumping both feet not to apply it. I can hear your enthusiasm and I'm excited myself. I am very curious to know what will come out of the negotiations at the end of June 2016, what will be the famous car regulations and measures on which it is concerned, and what will be efficient. Minister, I suggest that you inform us of this efficiency as soon as possible. I will tell you immediately that, apart from mystery calls, I really do not see what other measures we can take at the moment. You spoke earlier about companies that deal with any application for discrimination. How will we be able to test, except through mystery calls, that these companies are not going to go into it? They should not go into it, not even for a customer who asks for it. So I am very curious about what will come out of the bus at the end of June 2016. So before the holiday we will be able to assess the results. At that time, we will enter into a political debate on whether or not what is in the collective agreement is enough. So we will wait for the sector. At the beginning of July 2016, the debate will start on whether it is enough. I will therefore give you an appointment in the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u15	Question No 11169 by Mr Stefaan Vercamer is transformed into a written question. In item 8 of our agenda, we have the attached questions Nos 11411 and 12281 by Mr Daerden, 12083 by Mr Vercamer and 12596 by Mr Hedebouw. Mr Vercamer turned his question No 12083 into a written question. Mr Hedebouw, would you like to wait until Mr Daerden arrives to ask your question?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u16	We can wait, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u17	Minister, in April Parliament adopted the draft law laying down various provisions, together with a number of amendments relating to the adjustment of employers' contribution to response in the event of economic unemployment. The Group of Ten reached an agreement between the social partners to combat subcontracting abuses in the event of temporary unemployment. This should not be combined with the replacement of a worker who is temporarily unemployed. This is also mentioned in collective agreement No. 53 Article 2: "The work normally carried out by the worker who is temporarily unemployed may not be outsourced by the employer to third parties during the duration of temporary unemployment." Well, sometimes it happens by sub-contracting. The employee will then be replaced by a cheaper person. Then we talk about abuse or dumping. Sometimes it is not an abuse, but social contributions are paid in the country of origin. Both the government and the replaced employee are the victims of this. Minister, how much do you estimate the annual cost to the government of this form of abuse? What progress has been made on implementing the part of the agreement of the Group of Ten at the end of last year? What steps still need to be taken? When do you think that this form of abuse of temporary unemployment can be detected and avoided in practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the alternative savings on temporary unemployment, the Group of Ten presented a proposal on 9 December 2015 aimed at combating the violations of the temporary unemployment system. These are mainly employers who claim temporary unemployment for their own employees, while they call on a subcontractor to carry out the work they should have done. In applying this agreement of the Group of Ten, I have asked my administration to draw up an appropriate legislative framework which will enable the RVA to act effectively against such abuses. As the Group of Ten points out, I quote, this regulation must be carefully drafted and must not entail any additional administrative formalities or the possibility of recourse to subcontracting in itself. We have received a first draft and will conclude it as soon as possible. However, this is a rather complex matter to get into a legislative text. It has been worked hard and we have received the first texts from the RVA. It is now impossible to calculate the impact of this type of abuse of temporary unemployment. This will only be possible once the regulatory framework has been developed, which will allow for controls and determinations. In the future, we will know that, assuming that every abuse is not done and prevented. I would also like to stress that the other measures envisaged in the field of temporary unemployment have been implemented. There's two of them. Firstly, the increase in response contributions due by employers who make excessive use of the temporary unemployment system for workers. This amendment shall take effect from 1 April 2016. This concerns Article 26 of the Law of 16 May 2016 laying down various provisions on social matters. Secondly, the possibility for firms recognised as firms in difficulty to place servants in temporary unemployment. That is Article 28 of the above-mentioned law. This Article shall enter into force on 2 June 2016. In other words, this already applies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u19	Minister, you are working on regulations that need to be put in place as soon as possible. Can you give us an indication when you come to Parliament with this or should it not come to Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u20	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u21	This year, but not before the recess?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u22	If that's possible, yes, but it's a rather complex fact. I think it will certainly be this year. If it is possible before the summer recess, we will certainly do so, but that depends a little on the technical discussions that are still taking place. Some insist that that part should also be implemented. I'll do it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u23	We shall therefore vote for it with great enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u24	Mr President, Mr Minister, at the beginning of May you made it clear in the press that the annualisation of working time and other important elements of your reform would not be subject to social consultation. This information, which surprised me, was repeated in an article in the Evening. The only elements of your reform that could be negotiated are, I quote, "other instruments of modernisation". I do not understand how an element of flexibility as important as the annualisation of working time would not be subject to consultation. This is a central element of your reform with the aspect of removing from the sectoral or enterprise collective agreement the 38 hour element and the annualisation of working time. When these elements are included in the collective agreement, this makes it possible to have a priori control of the social partners and to avoid that a worker is individually at the mercy of his employer. No, no, no, no, no, You are in line with this generalised flexibility, with the weakening of the worker in the face of his employer and with the removal of reflection from social consultation. That is the context in which we find ourselves! In this regard, Minister, my questions are as follows. What "other modernisation instruments" will be subject to consultation? How do you plan to organise consultation on these instruments? How can we ensure the inclusion of a reflection on the quality of employment, safety and health at work in sectoral conventions while you empty them through your system? Does the consultation system you imagine as part of your reform take this into account? As far as the timetable is concerned, you announced that you would be personally involved in relaunching discussions with the social partners. If my information is good, in early June, you had received the representatives of the workers and then, the representatives of the employers. Could you tell us what were the concerns of workers' representatives about your actions during these discussions? What explanations did you give them? I would like to know what is happening with the employers' representatives as well. What is the context of these discussions and how do you intend to move forward? You received them separately. Will there be a real negotiating area, with consultation between them, or will you simply listen to them separately? In this case, we are very far from the concept of social consultation. If you see each other from time to time and you do your synthesis, we are not in what is called concertation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u25	Minister, in recent weeks, debates have been organized by the National Employee Centre on the Dutch-speaking side, the LBC. In particular, one of your cabinet staff was present at the first of these debates in Ghent, who informed the Chamber, in response, that there was indeed a text on the Peeters Act, that is, the various reforms you are talking about. He also stated that the text had already been on the ACV management office for two weeks. This makes me say that a text is being negotiated at high level. Can we have access to this text as Members? There is obviously a material basis that is already communicated on your vision. This is a bit of a problem in the debates we have. We finally don't know what's or isn't in your famous Peeters law. We'd be curious to see her too. Can we dispose of it? During this debate in Ghent, moreover, in which I had some friends present and very interested, your collaborator received many questions. It was pretty sporty that night. Your collaborator also stated that "given the disinformation given by the CSC, the minister was not at all hot to participate in this kind of debate." Today we are witnessing a battle of information. Could you give us a little more material on this Peeters law about which you communicate a lot but on which we have little concrete? Does the Minister confirm that his cabinet refused to participate in a KAJ debate because of disinformation from the ACV? Is the government prepared to amend its laws in the context of negotiations with the trade union? Where is this discussion now? Does the Minister still consider it possible to avoid the planned interprofessional actions of the day after tomorrow, September and October, by focusing on social dialogue?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Daerden, mijnheer Hedebouw, in April, the government took a decision on the work that was feasible and manageable. I think you have read and read this notification about the work that can be done and can be done. On the one hand, it contains measures included in a general framework and, on the other, measures included in a menu to be activated by sectors and enterprises. These measures are both employee- and employer-oriented. The objective is to generalise both the manoeuvrable and the workable work. A number of measures improve the flexibility of the worker's demand. The compulsory measure relating to training and occasional telework, career savings, the extension of time credit and palliative leave are other measures explicitly directed by the worker. I have already had the opportunity to explain this notification in detail to this committee. During the period of the social elections, I chose not to have bilateral or other contacts with the social partners. At the end of this period, however, I had discreet contacts with workers' organisations and, of course, employers' organisations. The aim of these contacts is to restore confidence between the social partners, so that they can resume the dialogue on the subject of manageable and feasible work, either within the Group of Ten or within the CNT. In the meantime, I am preparing the texts of the bill implementing the April 2016 notification from the Council of Ministers. These texts will be submitted to you in due course. Since I understand that some Members, such as Mr Hedebouw, are attending meetings of the LBC, I would like to say quite clearly that the texts will be submitted to the social partners and the government in due course. I would like to make it quite clear that no texts of the draft law have yet been shared with the social partners or with other cabinets. Those texts are, of course, in preparation, they will be distributed in due course. I have indeed decided not to take part in debates until draft texts have been shared. After all, information can only be given on the basis of draft texts which can be shared and discussed. A lot has already been said and written about the so-called Peters Act, and that is something special. There is a general notification, which has to be translated into legal texts, but these legal texts have to be submitted to the government and still have to be discussed here in the Chamber. Yet everyone is already talking about the Peters Act. Without the legal texts being published themselves, information about them will be launched with a lot of inaccuracies and sometimes gross errors. Popular parties are happy to cooperate in this dissemination, and that is of course their democratic right, but I think it is important that the legal texts are drafted very carefully, so that we can discuss them only then. I would like to emphasise once again that I find the release of all these pamphlets and disinformation very regrettable. Often, the content of the draft law is interpreted in an unsophisticated and sloganical manner, while no one has read it yet, so that the publicists concerned do not have the specific texts at their disposal. Anyone who wishes to do a service to workers may feel that this is very important, Mr Hedebouw................................................................................................................................................................................................... In order to avoid such matters, I am not taking part in debates now, because they can have a counter-effect and make social dialogue more difficult. Mr Daerden, I hope you have understood that the ultimate goal is to have a negotiation within the Group of Ten or at the CNT and to do everything possible to find a solution in a more positive atmosphere than it is at present.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u27	Mr. Daerden, are you satisfied?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u28	It can be seen, Mr. President. Minister, I am pleased to hear that you want to restore confidence. You've already said it, you're confirming it today. I believe, however, that this is not yet the case, otherwise we would have another global social climate. There is still a lot of work to be done, but since this is your will, I am convinced that you will do what it takes to achieve it. In order to do so, the Group of Ten and the CNT must be given an opportunity to negotiate. It must also be allowed that downstream, one can adjust, modify what has been announced as something decided. I understand that these are only notifications and not yet legislation. However, the notification contains broad principles that are problematic. Should we consider that what is in the notification is immutable and that it is closed? In this case, the room for negotiation would be very marginal. Or is there a real negotiating area?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u29	Mr Minister, there was some confusion in the sense that one of your colleagues said in a public debate that there was a text. One wonders, then, whether there would have been negotiations behind the curtains from a text. As a Member of Parliament, it is normal to want to be involved in the debate as soon as possible. We have studied your notifications very closely. This is proof that we respect the work you do, since we have mobilized a great deal of energy to try to understand the philosophy of what is not yet the Peeters law but which we know is about to arrive. With this kind of law, you get into history. A law will bear your name! On the issue of issues and discussions, you're talking about misinformation; we'll see what's really happening. We never said that 45-hour week would be a generality. (…): (…)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u30	No! On the other hand, I spoke in plenary session and there, obviously, the majority was a little uncomfortable reading your text - it still needs to defend your texts and read them in Parliament - which referred to the 45 hours of work a week. For this is the question; the issue. Either your reforms change something, in which case tell us what it will be, or they don't change anything. In the latter case, stop making proposals. I have the impression that it is always the same with the government, which announces that it will change a lot of things and which, as soon as we criticize it, replies that we misunderstood it and, in fact, we do not want to change anything. You'd have to know what it's like! Here, the issue is whether a worker could be individually confronted with a discussion about 100 overtime hours, up to 143 hours. Can the minister confirm to us that it will not be individualized, that there will not be 100 overtime – two hours a week – to negotiate with the workers? Yes or no? And we have no answer to that question. The government itself organizes a form of diffuse misinformation, by not submitting clear texts on the reforms that will come. And I hope in the coming weeks, we'll be talking. Minister, when is it "in good time"? It would be interesting for the democratic debate and to know when to organize demonstrations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u31	Minister, in Belgium, to reward all or part of its staff, a company can distribute a collective bonus. For example, if the bonus amounts to 100 euros, employees will receive a net amount in pocket of about 65 euros. The text of collective agreement No 90 states that the benefit "must be calculated independently of individual assessments, benefits and results". This means that there is no individual advantage and no link between the benefit and productivity of the individual worker, thus excluding the risk of individualisation of working conditions. Moreover, the collective nature of the advantage implies that it must apply to the whole undertaking, to a group of undertakings or to a well-defined group of workers. The importance of the anti-discrimination law should be stressed here. Yet today, thanks to a new system of fiscally attractive bonuses, companies have a new form of advantage to pay their employees: a budget specially designed to finance various home services. The amount the employee then receives may be higher than in terms of group bonuses; he will not have that amount in his sight account, but in the form of a budget to use on ResQ-Online. This platform brings together different service providers to assist it in carrying out all its household tasks or repair work. He may even join the services of a driver in the event of fatigue, for example. These service providers apply fairly high hourly rates, of the order of 29 euros per hour. Compared to service securities, the difference in tariff is substantial. In addition, this bonus is not a collective bonus but a bonus that can be granted individually to an employee. The employer and employee may also agree on the frequency and amounts of this budget. We are still far from the anti-discrimination law of the collective bonus. Minister, given the individual nature and the very high hourly rate of this ResQ-Online platform, do you not think that there could be any risk of discrimination based on the status of workers, ResQ-Online or service titles? What evidence will they demonstrate that this individual bonus will not be offered only to senior executives of companies, who may be the only ones to be able to afford it? Even if any type of worker will be able to benefit from this kind of bonus, do you not think that it will be possible for him to pay such rates, even if he receives a discount on the platform thanks to this bonus? In the end, in this case, we know that there is a tax ruling, but what about social security contributions? It's the cherry on the cake.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Massin, for a number of years there has been a system of collective bonuses in our country, i.e. the non-recurring benefits of the results, which are mainly regulated by CTC No. 90 of the CNT. Employers who wish to use this collective bonus to pay their workers benefit from a preferential social security scheme and tax exemption. This is probably one of the main reasons for the growing success of this system. Other bonus schemes which do not comply with the conditions of the CTC 90, e.g. individual bonuses, are not prohibited, provided that they comply with the laws and rules in force relating, for example, to the compulsory minimum wage, the protection of remuneration and the payment of wages in kind, social security and taxation. As for a possible question of discriminatory treatment of a group of workers determined by this possibility of individualisation, each case must obviously be examined in concrete terms. This is the case with the platform to which you refer, ResQ-Online, which makes its services available to companies in order to enable them to pay their workers in a way which, thanks to tax and social regulations, becomes very advantageous, so that one can wonder whether there is no unfair competition with regular independents who offer their services outside this platform, as well as with service securities companies. The collective bonus, if paid under the above-mentioned system, of the non-recurring benefits related to the results, cannot, however, be used within the framework of the ResQ-Online platform. In addition, this collective bonus can only be paid in cash. If this were to be done in any other way, it would require an adaptation of the legislation on the subject of CTC No. 90. For the remaining questions, it is better for you to address my colleagues, the ministers responsible for social security and finance. As you know, for service titles, it is the Regions that are competent. Finally, I would like to warn against the tendency to replace cash remuneration with forms of remuneration which are treated in a socially and/or fiscally advantageous manner. The greater the proportion of remuneration that receives specific tax and/or social treatment, the greater the burden of tax and social charges on those who cannot benefit from such favourable treatment. This proliferation can undermine the structural approach to reducing wage costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u33	Deputy Prime Minister, I am a little frustrated by your answer. I expected you to tell me that you were going to make contact with your colleagues, including the Minister of Finance, even if there is a tax ruling, tomorrow to make legal provisions that no longer allow that kind of thing. You say that collective agreement No. 90 applies, that there may be a possibility of discriminatory treatment. On the other hand, this is not very correct with regard to service securities companies or with regard to the self-employed. It is therefore up to you to make the arrangements either to say: "I validate the system, for me it is quite correct. There's a tax ruling, too bad. These are losses of income from social security contributions, it is deterioration of employment, etc. There are executives who can benefit from it, it is an advantage that is granted individually, it is illegal but it is done, since there is the tax ruling. Too bad, I agree." That's a choice. The other choice is to contact your colleagues to try to put in place arrangements that make it possible to make room for this system.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u34	Mr Massin, I will contact my colleagues to transmit this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u35	At least that will clarify things. That would be a good initiative on your part.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u36	Mr President, these two questions are joined, but even if they are diplomatic posts, they are different subjects. On the one hand, it is the employment of the subjection of social security and, on the other, it is the application of labour law. I don't have a problem grouping them, but I want to dissociate both. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, as regards the employment aspect of the social security liability of diplomatic posts, it is settled case-law that embassy staff who do not participate in the public service missions of the sending State, of which he is not a national, must be subject to social security. I have indicated, in the question I have sent you, all the case law and references essentially from the Brussels Labour Court. I am referring here to local staff, that is to say Belgians and permanent Belgian residents. There are still many of them. It cannot be said that these are necessarily easy situations. There are translators, drivers, secretaries, cleaning staff, etc. It cannot be admitted that this staff is not treated like other Belgians. The case law confirms the simple application of the provisions of the Act of 27 June 1969 revising the Decree-Law of 28 December 1944 on social security for workers. I have seen in a number of cases that these Belgian staff and the permanent Belgian residents of these diplomatic posts are not subject to social security. It is therefore very clearly a social fraud and non-compliance with Belgian legislation. Besides, it's in the sight and knowledge of the state. The State closes its eyes and thus covers this social fraud. These issues are not negligible since they concern the right to unemployment benefits and occupational accident insurance, as well as the coverage by health care insurance and the pension scheme. Some people who have finished their careers end up with zero pension. This applies to the social security component. A second aspect concerns the application of labour law. I asked you a few months ago, and you told me that the law of 16 March 1971 did not apply to diplomatic posts. I am surprised given the relevant and clear legal analysis made by the Labour Court. A judgment of 7 October 2015 considers that, for staff employed in foreign diplomatic or consular posts in Belgium and not covered by the Vienna Conventions, the Labour Act of 16 March 1971 and the labour regulations applicable to workers in the private sector must be applied, since these posts cannot be regarded as participating in the exercise of Belgian public authority. I have the impression that this answer has been prepared by the President of the Commission of the Good Offices, which leaves me with a bitter taste. I took up the remarks you made on Saturday, May 30, 2015 at the General Assembly of the Inter-union Embassies. They are included in the question, I am not going to read them again. You said that our country has very good social protection and that it applies to the local staff of foreign embassies and diplomatic missions. You also said that you had undertaken to take initiatives regarding the status of this staff and its social protection. I therefore do not accept the interpretation you gave me in the parliamentary reply you gave me a few months ago. The subject was the fact that staff were outside the scope of the 1971 Act. The case law is very clear and I am right. These are not anecdotal questions. I would point out, however, that, in the minimum wage section, on public holidays, these people are in no way protected. The State accepts these situations which I find totally unacceptable. I therefore have a clear request on the application of labour law. I don't think we can wait any longer on this matter. We can no longer try to make them believe that they are not subject to the 1971 Act. They are subject to this law, and there is a need to find ways of doing so. I reviewed with the CSC the modalities that could be found so we could land. A sui generis joint committee may be convened. I think that can be a lead. Another possibility would be to proceed through a change to the Joint Committees and Collective Agreements Act 1968, so that these persons would have a contract of employment without being civil servants, thereby giving them a minimum of respect and, in particular, protections in the field of labour law. I'm sorry, Mr. President, but I had two very different questions. Deputy Prime Minister, I hope that you will make a clear and firm commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u37	Mr President, Mrs Fonck, I shall take a second look at the answer I gave, with your information on the judgment, which is very clear to you. We're going to check for a second time on law enforcement. I may have been given incorrect information; anything is possible. I'll check this out.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u38	Do you want us to postpone the question?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u39	No. I will inquire again because, like you, I am concerned about the social situation of the staff of embassies and diplomatic posts. The unemployment rules provide for a specific period of time when social security contributions have not been withheld or paid to the ONSS by the employer. Working days whose remuneration has not been subject to statutory deductions or to insufficient deductions may be taken into account for the admission to unemployment benefits on two conditions. The first is that the work benefits were made in a profession or company subject to social security, the unemployment sector. The second is that the worker complained about his employer's failure to comply with the relevant inspection services or that his trade union organization contacted the employer by registered mail to the position. Subject to these conditions, and provided they also meet the other conditions laid down in the unemployment rules, the workers concerned are entitled to unemployment benefits. The various Belgian administrations are aware of the problem of social fraud in embassies and diplomatic posts and, in particular, of the non-subjugation of certain staff members. This led to the creation of the Commission des Bons Offices. Since the establishment of the Commission, complaints about the non-submission of workers to Belgian social security have been reported about 15 diplomatic representations. According to the embassies concerned, the number of workers varies between one and more than 20 workers. The Commission's intervention has made it possible to regularise the situation of workers in several cases. The Commission is limited in its means of exerting pressure on diplomatic missions. It should be pointed out that the competent inspection services cannot enter embassies and consulates, as they do in other workplaces. The authorization of diplomatic representation is indeed required. This does not prevent the inspection services from conducting investigations. If the investigation confirms the absence of a worker's statement to the ONSS, a contact is made with the Embassy to regularize the situation either by mail or directly at a meeting with the Ambassador of the diplomatic mission. In particular, the procedure is essentially amicable with regard to the regularisation of the amounts due as social security contributions. In view of the success of a first workshop, the Commission decided to organise a second workshop at the end of June 2016 on the specific theme of social security in Belgium, in order to make diplomatic missions aware of their obligations to declare to ONSS their locally recruited staff and the serious consequences for undeclared workers in terms of pensions, unemployment, health insurance, etc. In addition, the Commission recommends that diplomatic missions use a social secretariat to assist them in their administrative efforts to comply with Belgian social regulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u40	Minister, first of all on the subject matter, the Commission des Bons Offices was created in 2013. We are three years later and it is true that it has dealt with a number of individual situations. They're not anecdotal! There's not a dozen of them, there's a hundred of them! All this to say that beyond dealing with individual situations if people complain and at the end of the journey, I think that the state, which is well informed about the situation and which covers somewhere this fraud and this non-compliance with the law, since that is what this is about, must be much more proactive. Only once did the state use threats of withdrawal of privileges. I think it was with the Indonesian embassy. It worked well. I also propose, in a much more proactive way, and I have made the same suggestion to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, that the accreditation of ambassadors should be linked to strict respect for Belgian legislation and law in this area. This would avoid, for a whole range of people concerned, being in a situation of difficulty in a second stage. On the other hand, with regard to the application of labour law in diplomatic posts, I made two suggestions to you earlier. The solution could take the form of a sui generis joint committee or an amendment to the 1968 law. I am thinking in particular of the question of the minimum wage. Indeed, beyond the theoretical discussions, we must go and see the real life of the people concerned, who are sometimes partially paid. As Minister of Employment, these are things that you cannot accept, especially since we are in the 21st century. I don't think I'll close this case for a second. That's why I'll come back to question you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u41	Mr. Daerden had to leave us for a brief moment. I guess he'll be back later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u42	Mr President, Minister, Monday was already in the news that the Social Inspectorate rejected the de minimis election and did not want to continue on 21 July. I have been informed in the media that the organiser wants to draw up a dossier for the labour inspectorate to ask for an exception. It's so ready that it's about child labour. It is possible to ask for an exception after motivation. Do you have any idea what that exception might be based on? Is there any chance that the de minimis election could continue on 21 July? The Social Inspectorate has done everything she can. There can be arguments, such as dancing and singing a song. But if we compare it to the Miss Belgium election, we know it's about the question of who's the most beautiful. That's why it wouldn't be right to continue the de minimis election. What are the prospects?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u43	Mr President, we have already made it clear in the newspaper where we stand on Monday. The Labour Inspectorate for the Supervision of Social Laws was aware of the press release some time ago. This showed that the National Committee Miss Belgium would organise a beauty contest for girls of Belgian nationality between 6 and 10 years of age on 21 July 2016. The inspection immediately asked the Commissioner for Children's Rights for an opinion on the impact of such a competition on the well-being of children and on compliance with the Convention on Children's Rights. The inspection also took note of an opinion No. 136 of the Office of the Equal Opportunities Council for Men and Women of 21 July 2013 on child labour in the context of de minimis elections. Both opinions have clearly shown that there are sufficient grounds for the inspection to refuse a possible derogation from the ban on child labour for such events. That is also what the inspection intends to do if an application for derogation is submitted. That hasn't happened so far. The inspection has proactively consulted with the National Committee Miss Belgium and informed that no derogation can be granted for a pure beauty contest. So the organization knows that for sure. You know that for talent contests, singing contests and the like, under certain circumstances, derogations can be allowed. If a derogation is refused or if no derogation is requested and the competition continues in the form provided for, the inspection of the Social Laws will make a report for breach of the labour law. It is well known that we take this very seriously. A number of deviations have been allowed in the past when it comes to talent contests, singing contests and the like.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u44	I hope that there will be no request for a derogation, although it has been announced. I also hope that they will not pour sauce on it to make it something else at the last minute. It is quite clear that this is indeed a pageant. This is not only not a good thing because it is about child labour, but also not because of the image. Young girls are already confronted enough with the imagery around their appearance. At a young age it is difficult to understand that people are rejected. There's nothing you can do about what you look like. Thank you for your answer. I understand you're doing everything you can to prevent this from happening, if it's an election based purely on the appearance of those girls.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u45	Mr President, Minister, on 18 May the European Commission presented its recommendations to Belgium. The report deplores the weakening of the overall employment rate in our country. Already in March 2016, during the European Semester, the Commission's speakers drew our attention to the low employment rate of certain groups still below the European average. A table included low skilled workers: 46.6% instead of 51.8%; young people: 39.6% instead of 48.4%; older workers: 42.7% instead of 51.8%; the second generation: 59.5% instead of 67.9%. For these different categories, our country is below the European average. The Commission calls on our country to take steps to put an end to the differential between these different population groups, but also to create incentives to boost the employment rate of older workers. In this regard, Minister, in your "feasible work" project, what are you going to do to take into account the low employment rate of older workers? How can your reform create a demand for these workers in the labour market? On the subject of workers of immigrant origin, Belgium is pointed out as one of the countries of Europe where their integration into the labour market is the most difficult. What anti-discrimination policies are you putting in place? How do you fight against the ethno-stratification of the labour market that is well present in our country? I will conclude by referring to a recent article in the newspaper L'Echo, which revealed Belgium's poor performance in terms of integrating foreign women into the labour market with only 46.3% of immigrant women from outside Europe who are employed in our country. How can this be explained and combated?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u46	Mr President, Mr Daerden, the feasible work project foresees a number of structural reforms which have an impact on the general employment rate, including that of older workers. Some of the new reforms envisaged will have a greater impact on older workers and on labour market demand. The annualization of working time will allow companies to have more management flexibility based on business cycles. This will also address the need for workers to better balance work and private life. I imagine that we will discuss this when the bill is considered in committee. Investing in more training throughout the career will allow older workers to remain in employment. The creation of a career account will allow workers to determine the intensity of their careers. Measures favouring groups of employers will have a direct impact on demand in the labour market, including that of older workers for experienced profiles. These measures will enable workers to better adapt their careers to their own needs and thus stay longer in the labour market and maintain their availability in order to reduce the risk of dismissal and increase their chances of finding another job. With regard to workers of immigrant origin, a report prepared by the SPF Emploi and Unia shows, in detail, that certain groups are concentrated in certain levels of wages, sectors and statutes. Differences between people of foreign origin are not confined to employment; they hide large underlying disparities in labour market positions. There is indeed a phenomenon of ethno-stratification in our labour market. This report calls for a multi-stage policy which aims jointly and primarily to facilitate or simplify access to the labour market and personal mobility, to avoid too fast guidance in education and to strengthen anti-discrimination policy. At the level of the federal government's labour market competencies, the measures undertaken under this legislature are aimed at controlling wage costs, fighting job traps and providing more employment opportunities. All these measures are in the direction of a labour market that more broadly integrates the population, including its ethnic dimension. Moreover, in response to the phenomenon of international migration in our country, the regulations on the access of refugees to the labour market as employees have been amended with a view to making it faster, in particular in order to improve the integration of asylum seekers or future beneficiaries of international protection. Indeed, these persons must no longer wait six months after the submission of their asylum application, but only four months. All levels of government must assume their responsibilities in their respective areas. Of course, there is a need for consultation. I reiterate my wish to convene at least the Ministers responsible for Employment, Education and Migration in the Committee for Consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u47	Minister, thank you for your answers. We will have the opportunity to revisit these various points when you submit your projects. In any case, I am convinced that training is an essential aspect of the file. I am also thinking of reducing benefits and working conditions at the end of a career. It is also necessary to find formulas that correspond to the time credit. The goal is to enable seniors to continue their activities in good conditions. As far as immigration is concerned, you confirm the fact and the need to continue the work at all levels of power.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u48	Mr Minister, my first question was to be asked of Mrs De Block, but it has been redirected to your home. Since September 2014, all companies in the country must put in place preventive measures to raise awareness of burn-out. If these rules are not complied with, a fine of up to EUR 6 000 may be imposed on them. You probably know that more than 120,000 people have been struck by a long-term absence due to psychosocial pathology. That's what we call burn-out. It is a phenomenon that is very present in our society. Therefore, it is said that these preventive measures are a good thing, both for employees and for employers, as long as they respect the rules as they have been laid down. Today, the Directorate of Occupational Welfare has only 133 controllers per 250,000 companies to monitor. Every day, these controllers are confronted with a surplus of work that could lead to a burn-out at home. Can you imagine? That would be rather boring. On a daily basis, complaints are made about companies or sectors etc. Information may be provided, but it would appear that there is an urgent need to bail out the lack of controllers so that they can work in good working conditions and at best check that the information is provided, both to companies and to workers. In addition, although the Directorate of Work Well-Being carries out a prior analysis of the risks in different companies and tries to be effective, the lack of staff is acute and controls are scarce. I therefore asked your colleague, Mrs De Block, whether she was well aware of this situation. This clearly dates back to 2014... I would also like to know whether it intends to put in place measures to ensure that businesses are more controlled and whether it envisages strengthening the staff of the Directorate of Occupational Welfare. It seems to me more than necessary. Finally, I asked her about the measures she intended to take. I assume, minister, that you have better answers to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u49	Mr Massin, I am fully aware of the limited number of inspectors available to monitor and enforce workplace welfare regulations. According to the latest available figures, the total number of inspectors employed in the external units of regional control is 133; however, the recruitment of six new inspectors is under way. The assignment of these inspectors to the various regional directorates was carried out taking into account the existing workload. As part of the implementation of the administration contract, inspection services are trying to increase their effectiveness by reducing reactive inspections, in favour of proactive inspection campaigns in a targeted sector and/or in a higher-risk profession. Even if only part of the enterprises can be controlled in the context of these campaigns, a leverage effect can be achieved through contact with and accountability of the sector concerned. This sectoral approach is reinforced in the conclusion of the protocols of collaboration between my administration and certain sectors, as in 2015 with the agriculture or construction sector, on April 28, 2016. This protocol provides for the establishment of an accompanying committee which includes employers and workers in the sector, but also representatives of my administration and, among other things, inspectors. The aim is to create synergies, without, of course, affecting the independence of the inspection.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u50	Minister, you will allow me a slightly political reply. It is known that the needs are acute because, for a worker, the burn-out confrontation is one of the evils of this century; or even another recently identified disease related to not having enough work, which also leads to psychosocial disorders. I can understand that memoranda of understanding are being put in place to try to move towards efficiency and effectiveness. But 133 people per 250,000 companies, even if you select, it's not enough. I believe that the budgetary context can be mistakenly and through, but in this case the state abandons one of its prerogatives. We have to regret it. Hundreds of thousands of hours of work are lost to businesses and economic activity in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u51	Mr President, Minister, this week the building industry again raised the alarm, when it was announced that many jobs had been lost. Since 2012, twenty thousand jobs have disappeared in the Belgian construction sector. Although it is not up to the sector itself, because it is expanding, five thousand jobs would disappear every year. The industry had already calculated that by 2019 it would expect an additional loss of no less than 40 000 jobs, not because less is being built, but mainly because our construction workers face unfair competition through social dumping. The main cause is competition from cheap labour from countries such as Poland, Romania, Portugal and Bulgaria, which pay their workers much less than what Belgian contractors have to pay. According to De Tijd last week, the number of posted workers already accounts for more than a quarter of the official number of workers in the construction sector. Earlier this year the RSZ announced that 101 172 foreigners were working in the construction sector. In 2007, there were only a small 24 000. This means that in the construction sector, with about two hundred thousand employees, this year for the first time in history more than half is foreigner. The Confederation of Construction is therefore right to call the alarm again and urges that the cost handicap be removed more quickly. Minister, is the government considering an additional wage cut specifically for the Belgian construction companies in order to keep them competitive? The government announced in October last year that it would set aside EUR 600 million for a specific reduction of charges. However, that amount would not be released until 2020. Then it will be too late for many Belgian construction companies. Isn't it appropriate to advance that term? Will this measure be sufficient? Finally, is this government also taking initiatives at European level to reverse the distorted situation? After all, it is the European Posting of Workers Directive which allows workers from Eastern and Southern Europe to work in other countries in this way. I'm curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u52	Mr President, Minister, I will not repeat my colleague's introduction. We note that deloyal competition is causing massive problems for construction firms. I want to focus on the fair competition plan approved by the government on 8 July 2015, almost a year ago. In addition to measures at national level, measures were also adopted at international level. I'll bring up three. Firstly, on the issue of the Dutch broadcasting sector, with the posting through non-approved temporary agency companies, it is said and repeated in the policy paper of your colleague Secretary of State De Backer, which I read recently, that the Netherlands route would be dealt with. Secondly, the conclusion of bilateral agreements on the transfer of social security contributions unduly collected in the country of origin between the institutions of the countries concerned. Thirdly, pending the amendment of the European Social Security Regulation, it would be examined whether bilateral or voluntary bilateral agreements could be used to collect and transfer social security contributions. My question is simply what happened during the past year. We don't think much has happened on the premises, but I'm waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u53	Mr President, Minister, last year we also adopted a majority resolution on measures to combat social dumping, including in the construction sector. As a result, I asked a question earlier this year about specific support measures for the construction sector. At that time, you indicated that there was a consultation with the social partners on how the amount of 604 million planned for the construction sector in the tax shift would be distributed. That wasn't clear at the time. Meanwhile, we heard from the Confederation of Construction, via the press, that the money would not be available until 2020 because of budgetary or other problems. However, it was said by all partners, of course also by the government itself, that it is important to take urgent action. Last year, the construction sector experienced a growth in employment of 1.6 %, but in recent years we have seen job losses in the sector, some years even 5%. The Confederation of Construction calculated that by 2019 26 000 jobs would be lost. This also means a loss of revenue for the government. Is it true, Minister, that the amount of 604.9 million can only be spent from 2020? If so, what are the reasons for this? Could these causes possibly be addressed? What will happen in the meantime to reduce job losses? Can measures possibly be taken at Benelux level? At Benelux level, one of our proposals, in particular on the collection of social contributions, has already been adopted. At European level, we have proposed this, but because it is not so obvious, it has already been agreed that a pilot project should be launched at Benelux level. What is the state of the social dialogue with you on the distribution of the 604.9 million? What contacts have there been? Are there any contacts planned? What other slopes are still on the table to reduce job losses?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u54	Mr President, Mr Pas, Mr Geerts and Mr Lanjri, the fact that the construction sector is groaning under legal or non-legal foreign competition may not be a new feature for anyone in this committee. From the start of the legislature, we have taken measures to tackle the problems in the sector, both in terms of fraud and in terms of reducing wage costs. Last Friday, a draft law was adopted by the Council of Ministers to transpose into Belgian law the Enforcement Directive 2014/67, which should improve compliance with the Posting of Workers Directive. This draft gives more weapons to our inspection services to combat fraudulent postings. That's a first act. Of course, the draft also comes here for further debate and approval. For example, it will be possible to take into account more elements to determine whether there is a substantial activity abroad and whether the posting is temporary. The inspection may request the translation of social documents from the country of origin. Each company that sends employees to Belgium is obliged to designate a contact person with whom the inspection can communicate. Fines can be collected more easily throughout Europe. In addition to these additional resources for the inspection services, this draft also installs a liability for the payment of wages in the construction sector by the direct subcontractor. This is not limited in time and can play immediately, unlike the existing system. The draft law is before the Council of State. I look forward to discussing and approving it in this committee as soon as possible, and so do you. At European level, Belgium is committed to obtaining an amendment to the Posting of Workers Directive 96/71. The attractive elements for our country are the following. Firstly, the limitation of the duration of postings covered by the Directive. In the committee's proposal that is 24 months, which we believe is still fairly long. Secondly, the provision that full remuneration as it exists in the country of employment should be applied, not just the minimum wage, and the possibility for subcontractors to also comply with collective agreements. You know that a number of national parliaments have invoked the yellow card procedure, which means that the Commission must now decide whether or not to maintain the draft unchanged. Once that is done, treatment can be continued. Last week, together with Secretary of State De Backer, at the EPSCO Council in Luxembourg, I encouraged the Commission to move forward quickly with this directive, after the Brexit referendum. I hope that tomorrow we will also be able to discuss other cross-border aspects, such as the problem of the false self-employed and the contestability of the A1 documents. With regard to the temporary agency sector and in particular the problem of constructions with numerous non-approved Dutch temporary agency companies, an approach and a concrete methodology consisting mainly of two components was developed in the Benelux working group on temporary agency agencies between enforcement services, both federal and for the Flemish Region. I'd like to go over them with you. On the one hand, the exchange and comparison of big data data on cross-border employment from Dutch agency agencies available in Belgium and the Netherlands. This form of shared data mining provided lists of suspicious companies during the initial tests, on the basis of which the Dutch authorities could already immediately establish social evasion. On the other hand, a list of undertakings eligible for targeted joint controls. The latter are therefore the second component of the methodology. In other words, simultaneous checks are carried out at certain times on both Dutch and Belgian territory, in which both Dutch and Belgian inspectors participate. These initial controls provide good prospects for the future and will be further developed and multiplied. All actors in the enforcement chain are involved, including the Flemish Region and the labour auditorates concerned. The inspection of the Social Laws audited 1 415 construction companies in 2015, with 1 207 employees and 202 self-employed persons found in violation; 877 employees and 85 self-employed persons were not in line with their A1 form. This shows that the inspection specifically and purposefully controls infringements of postings in the construction sector. That rate of checks will continue in 2016. To answer the questions on initiatives at European level on the collection of social contributions, I would like to refer to my fellow Members responsible for Social Affairs and the fight against fraud. In terms of wage costs, too, the government, as you know, has not been idle. I am thinking here of wage moderation in general, index jumps and so on. The overall tax-shift reduction for the construction sector, according to its own calculation, accounts for more than EUR 80 million. The first recruitment measure provides €22 million. Moreover, as you know, an additional budget of EUR 600 million has been allocated, to which you referred. The precise operationalisation of this amount is currently the subject of discussions with the sector. One possibility is to adapt the definition of shift and night work so that construction activities can also be included, which is a very creative fact. The construction industry itself suggests that it needs a cost reduction of EUR 6 per hour to close the gap with wages in Eastern Europe sufficiently. The reductions in charges that I mentioned, as well as wage moderation and the index jump, should, in the long term, lead to the amount that should be involved or should, in any case, be sufficient to address the problem of unfair competition adequately, of course, in conjunction with the anti-fraud measures. However, in concrete terms and specifically for the construction sector, we are considering whether the system of shiftwork can be adapted, so that the construction sector would also be covered by that system and thus, in my opinion, we respond in a very efficient and creative way to the demands of the construction sector. We are working intensively on this proposal. The sooner the better. It is not our intention or my intention to wait until 2020, while that amount of EUR 604 million is shining. It has been agreed that this EUR 604 million will be released in 2020, but also that we will take action as soon as possible in the course of 2016. We're working on that. Of course, we must be careful not to fall into state aid or to support certain sectors with which Europe has problems. Legally-technically everything must also be in conformity with European regulations. Perhaps this creative proposal to change the shift system in such a way that construction is also eligible, is a very simple but also very efficient instrument.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u55	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive reply. It is not a new problem. If, in eight years' time, there was a quadrupling of the number of foreign workers in the Belgian construction sector, then you cannot wait much longer. It's still four years till 2020. If five thousand jobs die every year, it would indeed be foolish to wait so long. You do not pin on a date, unlike for example in the ARCO file, where you propose to have a solution by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u56	That's what you support, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u57	If this does not happen with taxpayers' money, I certainly support it, Minister. It is a pleasure for you to work on a solution as soon as possible. You have listed a number of measures. However, the government has also taken measures that affect contractors who renovate homes, and thus have the opposite effect. I am thinking, for example, of the reduced VAT rate, which is only allowed for homes over ten years old instead of over five years old. Rather, measures are needed to make it more attractive for construction. The calf is, of course, bound at European level. I hope that the changes you wish to make to the Posting of Workers Directive will be thorough enough. On the one hand, you are speculating on the loss of jobs as a result of a possible Brexit. If something is proven in writing today, it is that thousands of jobs are already being lost today because of the unlimited free movement of persons in the current European Union. I think the most important thing is for you to make a fist in the European Union and for you to ensure that, as any Member State should be able to do, we have the right once again to protect our labour market and our social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'm just waiting to see how the shiftwork system will work. What you say about state aid is true, but for sp.a there is a problem of disloyal competition. In fact, one should be able to create a level playing field and certainly a social level playing field, so that one does not have to give state aid and the rules are the same for everyone. As regards the Enforcement Directive, Secretary of State De Backer had announced this last week in the context of the discussion of the Programme Act. I'll wait there too. As far as wages debts and so on are concerned, I understand that it is only retroactive and probably a warning. Then there is the aspect of pay. How is this to be defined in the different sectors? This, of course, gives rise to discussions which are sometimes poignant.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u59	Minister, you gave a comprehensive answer and thank you for that. The problem is indeed complex. For example, if there is 6 euros pay gap, it is only about objective matters where there are no abuses. I welcome your commitment to tackling abuses and social dumping, because they exist and need to be addressed, but also, of course, the Posting of Workers Directive. Even if applied correctly and with the new measures, there is still a competitive disadvantage for this country because labour costs are higher than in the other countries. Even if social contributions are paid for posted workers in the country of origin, this remains a problem. That cannot be eliminated in one-two-three unless wages in those countries would increase further. In the long term, of course, we can come up with a solution, but we are not there yet. In the meantime, I am pleased that you are taking part in creative solutions to seek out opportunities to maximise the wage gap. Perhaps the difference of EUR 6 cannot be fully eliminated, but to a large extent it can be eliminated. Shiftwork is a measure. For the rest, I hope that the amount of more than EUR 600 million will come. I did not get an answer to the question as to why that money is still blocked until 2020, as the Confederation of Construction says. That is not clear from your answer. Is there a technical problem or not? Could you please give me the written version of your answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u60	It is a budgetary matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u61	It is a budgetary problem, but if you put forward a creative solution, I assume that it also has a budgetary consequence. I hope that we will do so, because the loss of jobs has an even greater budgetary consequence. If we put 26 000 families out of work, and therefore without income, this means a very great loss, both for the families concerned, who see their income lost, and for society. I think that we should be absolutely committed to combating job losses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u62	Mr. Chair, Minister, the government agreement provides that a "framework for setting up a community service for the long-term unemployed will be developed." This will be implemented through a cooperation agreement with the Regions. This framework must meet the following conditions: service to the community is two half days a week; service to the community must not reduce the availability of the labour market; service to the community must be integrated into a journey to employment; the Regions are given the opportunity to suspend long-term unemployed who refuse to offer service to the community." Given the importance of this federal commitment in the battle for employment, I would like to ask you the following questions. What is the status of the project to introduce this service to the community? Have any specific measures already been adopted in terms of implementation? What obstacles remain to be overcome and what is the timetable for finalizing this dossier? With regard to the necessary synergies with the federated entities, what has been the state of the negotiations so far? Have your regional interlocutors expressed specific positions and, if so, can we know the content of them?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u63	Mr. Calomne, with respect to community services for the long-term unemployed, according to the text of the Government Agreement, these activities will be of minimal importance, i.e. no more than two half-days a week, so that community service does not reduce the labour market availability of the job seeker. Moreover, this activity must be integrated into a path to employment and therefore cannot be considered as a kind of forced labour but as an opportunity to make progress on a path that will serve as a springboard to sustainable and quality employment. As mentioned in my policy note, a legal framework for the establishment of a community service for the long-term unemployed will be developed in 2016 in consultation with the Regions. I have already contacted my fellow regional ministers of employment on this subject. My Flemish colleague Philippe Muyters has already told me about a very developed project in this area. As soon as I have received the answer from all the regions, negotiations can begin. The answer to your question is therefore premature. I hope that we will have the answers of the regional ministers as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u64	Minister, thank you for your answers. I take note that normally, for 2016, you should be successful. We will come back to you to ask you more specific questions once you have had the agreement of the other regional ministers. It's a file we'll follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u65	Mr President, I tabled this question a little over a month ago. Deputy Prime Minister, the press has recently echoed the difficulties in communicating information that would currently exist between the Forem and the ONEM. It seems that a problem of data transmission does not keep jobseekers' files up-to-date. As a result, Walloon jobseekers would not at the moment be at risk of sanctions when they are subjected to a negative assessment after a Forem check. As you know, following the sixth reform of the State, it is the regional bodies that check that their users are actively seeking work, that they do not refuse suitable jobs or that they are taking appropriate training. The Forem is now competent to determine which job-seeker can be punished, while the ONEM carries out the penalties provided for. Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you confirm this information in the press and explain the nature of these transmission problems? What are the reasons for these malfunctions and what are the consequences from the point of view of the application of any sanctions imposed on jobseekers? What initiatives have your services taken, in consultation with Forem, to address this situation? How long should the situation be able to recover? Finally, can you tell me whether similar difficulties have possibly been observed in the other two regions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I confirm that the ONEM has indeed encountered problems in the exchange of data with Forem. This does not prevent the application of the sanctions imposed by the ONEM. They are only delayed by a few weeks. On 6 and 7 April, ONEM received the first data on decisions taken in the context of the monitoring of active and passive availability. These data were used by ONEM and Forem's decisions were implemented. The exchange of data was interrupted on 8 April as anomalies were found. These were communicated to the Forem experts on the basis of the latest test files received. It appears that most of the problems are solved, even though some of the problems relating to specific dossiers still need to be resolved. The exchange of data was resumed on 9 May. Regular meetings and contacts are held between the ONEM experts and the regional employment services on the exchange of information in the context of skills transfer in order to optimize transfers and resolve the difficulties encountered. This issue was one of the items on the agenda of the meeting of the College of Senior Officials, organized by the ONEM on 10 May. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, as ONEM has pointed out on many occasions, the transfer of responsibilities is very complex, involving, among other things, the implementation of new regulations and procedures, as well as new programmes and computer flows. In addition, the deadlines are very short. Despite intense preparation, it is therefore not unusual for difficulties to arise, especially during the start-up period, the important being to be able to quickly find solutions. Regional services can fully count on the support of the ONEM.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u67	Minister, thank you for your answers. As you said, the transfer of skills requires and involves a number of procedures to be put in place. It is therefore necessary to be a little more patient and tolerant with regard to this establishment, but perhaps also to be more vigilant because this also implies new habits. Finally, it does not seem to me that you have answered my question as to whether there have been any other problems in other regions. No, it was only limited to the Walloon Region. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u68	Minister, I asked you a question about homework a while ago. Your reply showed that around 1 500 complaints came to the inspection services every year, while there were about 18 000 house workers; 2 488 of the findings related to well-being at work and 1 595 to undeclared work. The domestic workforce sector is therefore very sensitive to abuses. It is also a sector that uses different statutes: domestic staff, servicemen, au pairs and so on. Recently, our country endorsed International Labour Organisation Convention 189. In this we have committed ourselves to granting basic rights in relation to social protection and labour law to domestic workers as well as to people who do domestic work within an employer-employee relationship. We have already taken many measures in the area of welfare legislation. In the past legislature, too, we worked to improve the status of servicemen by giving them social rights. In my view, however, a number of rules on labour inspection should still be adapted to facilitate checks in homes which have now been recognised as workplaces for personnel. I would therefore have liked to ask you the following questions, Minister. Is it an option that you, as Minister, better map out the domestic labour market so that we can get a better view of the most vulnerable groups, where there are the greatest abuses and how these abuses can be dealt with? Have you or your administration taken concrete steps in this area, possibly in cooperation with other partners? We find that there are a lot of abuses. That's just the tip of the iceberg. There's a lot more abuse than the inspection knows about. What actions are you planning so that our country is generally with Convention 189? Who is involved in this process? At what time are actions planned and what? How will you ensure that the Social Inspectorate has easier access to private homes than is currently the case? You explained the current legislation in detail last month. There's something that doesn't exactly make sense to me. Today, the inspection does have access to homes where au pairs work, whereas they are not even employees, strictly speaking. This is not the case for domestic staff. I believe that it is necessary to amend the legislation in this area so that the inspection can be carried out more easily in the workplace, even in the case of private homes, without, of course, violating privacy. We do not do that in the case of au pairs, and the inspection has no problem with that. So let yourself be inspired by the way this happens with the au pairs. In this way, you can ensure that there is sufficient inspection to tackle abuses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u69	Mr President, Mrs Lanjri, it is always interesting to identify certain issues. After all, measuring is knowing. More quantitative and qualitative data can help us to better map the sector of homework. You're right about that. However, I do not have to explain that, of course, we have to bribe with the resources we have. I will examine, together with my administration, the possibilities, despite the budgetary constraints. If there are opportunities, I will certainly have them investigated. As you know, Article 24 of the Social Criminal Code limits the access of social inspectors to residential premises to the following cases. I've listed them for you. Firstly, when the social inspectors commit an infringement on the spot. Secondly, upon request or with the consent of the person who really enjoys the inhabited space; the request or consent must be given in writing and prior to the visitation. Thirdly, in case of call from that place. Fourth, in case of fire or flood. Fifth, when the social inspectors are in possession of an authorization to visit issued by the investigating judge. At present, this is the situation for domestic staff, except for au pairs. In practice, a control in a private house is still very difficult and the social inspector is usually dependent on the written permission of the resident to enter the house. In the event of a complaint, a social inspector will almost always contact the resident in advance and confront him with the possible abuses without a check being carried out in the private home. An exception applies where the precarious working conditions can be determined from the public road, for example when washing windows on the outside of the house at height without security. Then, of course, one does not have to enter the house. The provision of the au pair legislation referred to is Article 26, 9° of the Royal Decree of 9 June 1999 implementing the Law of 30 April 1999 on the employment of foreign workers, whereby families agree to grant supervisory officials access to the home. This aspect of welfare legislation is currently being discussed within the High Council for Prevention and Protection at Work. The aim is to examine how best to apply welfare legislation to domestic workers on the basis of their specific working conditions and the risks to which they are exposed, in accordance with Convention 189 of the International Labour Organisation and the regulations agreed there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u70	I look forward to seeing if your administration will be able to conduct that investigation. It is true that some problems can be solved without being present in the workplace. At the same time, I think it is also necessary to tackle abuses such as exploitation and undeclared work or situations where domestic workers are locked up in the workplace. We need to adapt the legislation to give the inspection wider scope. I'm counting on your cooperation on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-22-54-commissie-ic452x.u71	Question No 12611 by Mr Veli Yüksel is transformed into a written question.
