ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u1	Mr Hedebouw asked for his question No. No 12594 to be added to the questions put together under item No. 5 because, according to him, it's the same subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u2	That's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u3	Mr President, Minister, the report by the National Bank states that the disability in labour costs will disappear from 2016. Three years earlier than planned, the government is achieving its objective of "by the end of the legislative term eliminating the pay handicap of our companies." The wage bill, often referred to as the 1996 law, must ensure that Belgian wages do not increase faster than those in our neighbouring countries, the Netherlands, France and Germany. Since 1996, the Central Council for Business (CRB) therefore compares the wage evolution in Belgium with that in our neighbouring countries every two years. On the basis of the difference between wage developments, employers and trade unions then negotiate wage increases, but these should not exceed the average wage increases in the different neighbouring countries. The CRB's own calculations show that from this year onwards there will be no wage handicap and that there will be room for wage increases for the following years. But the government absolutely does not want to turn the wage cuts that the companies received, including the tax shift, into wage increases. That is why it wants to change the method of calculating the wage standard in favour of companies. For example, the calculation will no longer take into account the gifts, reductions in charges and wage subsidies that employers will receive from 2017. The companies will receive hundreds of millions of euros in 2017 and 2018. In addition, an automatic correction mechanism would be introduced if there were excesses of the wage standard. And if, after two years, it appears that Belgian wages would have increased slightly faster than in the analogue countries, this will be deducted from the possible new wage margin. Meanwhile, the government introduced a new element with potentially large implications. There is also a need to eliminate the historical hourly disability before 1996. In this way, the government goes beyond what is stated in its own coalition agreement, which states that before the end of the legislature, the wage handicap of the companies that have been built up since 1996 must be eliminated. There is a big difference between 1996 and 1996. I have the following questions. Firstly, the government has achieved its objective of the wage handicap, which has been established since 1996, as stated in the Government Declaration. Then why is she so keen to keep blocking wages? Secondly, when will the so-called historical handicap of before 1996 be determined by the CRB? Do you have any idea? Will this take account of subsidies to companies? Thirdly, I have a question about collective agreement No. 90. Will CTC 90 be included in this standard? Wages in Belgium over the last 15 years have risen less rapidly than in the Netherlands and France. In the meantime, in Germany wage increases have been allowed in some sectors. Do you not think, Mr Minister, that Belgium is organising real wage dumping against its neighbouring countries and do you not think that this situation should be rectified?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u4	Mr President, I apologize. It is complicated to combine committee and plenary at the same time. Minister, I observe that all the questions have been brought together in one and the same question despite the fact that the issues are sometimes slightly different. On October 28, your draft "work" law was adopted by the Council of Ministers. Has this text received the agreement of the social partners? If my information is correct, it is not. I would like to know what points have been blocked by the social partners and how. Let me point out in detail the various subjects. Firstly, two strands are devoted to working time: flexible working hours and 100 overtime. What about the payment of the out-of-pocket payments? With regard to training, a new system has been established. Is it directly applicable or should it be re-submitted to the social partners and is it therefore likely to be postponed? On occasional telework, many questions arise in relation to the legal framework. You mentioned the establishment of a collective labour agreement or a labour regulation. Have you integrated the "grève" dimension? What happens in the event of a strike? Is an indeterminate temporary employment contract of immediate application or should it be subject to a collective agreement? Same question for the career savings account. The reform of employers' groups is a particularly important subject for us. I am told that today, files are blocked at the National Labour Council (NCT). It is the latter who gives approvals for individual applications for groups of workers. The justification given for these blockages is the legal uncertainty resulting from the absence of a clear legal framework. Unless I am mistaken, your draft bill does not address fundamental issues such as the paying user principle. Why didn't you work there? However, the grouping of employers is an important mechanism. With regard to the simplification of part-time work, can you tell us more about the aspects of the draft legislation? For e-commerce, again, will it be through a collective labour agreement or through direct application? Your answers will allow us to have a better idea of how you have approached these various aspects and how the next steps will be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u5	In the context of point 5, I have two attached questions which I shall sum up in one because one is older than the other. In relation to your law on feasible work, its path and in the context of social consultation, there was no agreement in the Group of Ten on 14 September. Can you inform us of the elements of divergence? Can you give us the margins for negotiations, on the occasion of the meeting you initiated on 19 October in order to relaunch the dialogue? Today, where are we? With respect to the workable law, can you tell us what you have considered for seniors? According to my information, nothing specific has been planned when they are asked to work until the age of 67. Perhaps this was an opportunity to enable them to fulfil this new obligation. As far as call centre workers are concerned, on 17 October you received a trade union delegation to defend the interests of call centre workers who are concerned about the additional flexibility in a sector that is already heavily subject to it. You promised to contact employers in order to improve the dialogue with workers' representatives. Have you had any contacts about this? Can you tell us what was agreed? Have there been any commitments by employers in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u6	My question was about the June 24, 2016 strike. We are far from it! Unfortunately, the questions could not be programmed early enough to be able to keep up with the news. I regret it and you, too, I suppose. Beyond that, there are a number of elements that are still relevant, sometimes even more depending on the latest decisions that have been taken, not only in the budget adjustment, but also in view of the 2017 budget. The measures against which there were strikes and demonstrations were related to the flexibilisation of work, at the time when their hours could be communicated to workers, attacks on public services, pension at age 67. The wishes expressed by the workers present, all the trade union organisations involved, including the ACW, were related to the reduction of working time, the automatic indexation of wages – you may be able to answer this question – but also taxation on fortunes or in any case on speculation – we expect news from you about this – and the ends of worthy careers. The questions that arose at the time, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Employment, concerned the measures that were going to be put on the table for fairer and more social policies, which is still relevant. Alternatives are also proposed by citizens and trade union organisations. Do you intend to answer this question and possibly refer it to the Group of Ten?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u7	Mr President, I will sum up the questions about the Peeters Act itself. Is there any idea of a timing for the deposit? When does the Minister intend to land? Regarding the famous 100-hour overtime pot, there are still a lot of discussions to understand exactly the proposal. Since this overtime pot is based on an individual relationship between the employer and the employee, without union control and without motivation, how can the Minister ensure that there will be no abuse? How can it ensure that workers will not be obliged to do so? Is there a limit on these overtime in relation to the working day and week? How many hours per day per week could a worker be required to do so? I'm talking about the 100-hour overtime pot. Each worker who uses this 100-hour overtime pot will have an effective 40-hour working week throughout the year. This is the end of the 38-hour week for these workers. Does the minister not fear an increase in unemployment if employers use more overtime rather than hiring? With respect to other overtime, how long in advance should the new work schedule be announced? There's a little confusion about this. In the context of this annualisation, at what time is a surcharge paid? This is one of the issues at stake in the debate. Between what you say, what the trade unions say and what we read in the press, there are a lot of contradictions. Can we clear things up?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u8	Mijnheer de voorzitter, beste collega's, bedankt voor alle vragen. There are two very important bills concerning the 1996 Act and the law concerning feasible, manageable and flexible work for businesses. Several colleagues have asked me the question of timing. I can tell you that the Council of Ministers took a decision on 28 October, at first reading. The Council of Ministers discussed the two draft laws, on the 1996 law and on workable work, at first reading. The two draft laws have now been sent to the Council of State. We have sought the advice of the Council of State. We hope to receive it by December 5. We hope that on 5 December we will receive the opinion of the Council of State. We have asked for a reaction from the Central Economic Council to the 1996 Act. We hope to get a response on 5 December. The members of the Central Council for Business agree to make a maximum effort to come up with something by 5 December. We have also asked the National Labour Council to consider the bill on work that is feasible and manageable and to give an opinion as soon as possible. We have also asked for an opinion from the National Labour Council. This means that we hope that on 5 December we will have not only the opinion of the Council of State, but also those of the National Labour Council and the Central Economic Council. It is important that we get the advice rather quickly because the interprofessional consultation has started. You have noted with me that a meeting has already taken place on an interprofessional agreement which may be reached. Today, we also have a meeting with the Group of Ten to discuss the possibility of an interprofessional agreement for 2017-2018. If we have received all the opinions on 5 December, we intend to adopt the drafts very quickly at second reading at the Council of Ministers. Then we will discuss them in committee as soon as possible. I understand you have a lot of questions. In a few weeks, we will have finalized the two projects within the Council of Ministers. I assume that we will be able to discuss these two drafts in detail here. Many of the questions you have now asked will then be addressed. The question is whether it makes sense, Mr President, to answer all these questions now, especially given that we are waiting for all the opinions and that the draft will perhaps be amended on a number of points. I will be happy to answer all the questions if both drafts are submitted here. Is it not wiser to conduct the debate in all its volume and aspects? I hope that we will be able to discuss these drafts in detail as soon as possible, as far as I am concerned, this year, but if that is not possible at the beginning of next year. However, this does not just depend on us. I assume that one of the questions is whether the Group of Ten will now start negotiations within the framework that will be finalized as soon as possible, or whether they are in another framework. Mr Hedebouw, the problem of the pay gap, of what is taken into account and of whether or not there is a wage margin will depend to a large extent on the new legislation adopted here. The Group of Ten will then be able to set a wage standard on the basis of the new legislation, but I cannot anticipate it and make public statements, especially as regards the size of the wage standard and how it will be implemented. It is very difficult and not even up to me to comment on it now. Also, regarding the work that can be done and manageable, Mrs. Fonck, Messin and Daerden, you have a lot of relevant and intelligent questions, as always. However, I propose to discuss and organise the debate once the texts have been approved in the Council of Ministers and with opinions. Perhaps you have received some information but the final text is not yet final. I agree with what the committee and you, Mr President, want to do. However, I would argue that the debate should be held if the two draft laws were tabled here and approved in their final form by the Council of Ministers. In this way, we can avoid any ambiguity or inaccuracies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u9	That seems to me to be a good suggestion. So we can spend our time usefully. As you know, Minister, Parliament has full freedom.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u10	We take note of the timing announced by the Minister. We will discover with great curiosity and impatience whether there are any changes to what has been announced in the press and what will be on the table. The way things are going to fit with the AIP itself is not clear to me yet. On what basis is the Group of Ten discussing today? Is he waiting for the frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u11	I understand they're starting the meeting right now, but I'm not one of them myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u12	I'll ask on what basis people negotiate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u13	Minister, in terms of the strict procedure of the legislative process, you are right. The government has decided, it is at first reading, it is referred to the Council of State, at second reading, etc. On the other hand, I think you're making a mistake. The government decided to decide by bypassing the social partners as a first step. It's your choice. But what you forget, in the end, is that in a reform such as this, we need the support of the people, the citizens. All versions circulate and give reading grids oriented in one direction or the other. Citizens hear these various versions with reading grids that are imposed on them. In my view, this is the worst of the worst when, in an ambitious and balanced reform, we want citizens to join. That, and the fact that you didn't say anything here, while the government has decided, while the versions are circulating, while different reading grids are given to the citizens. I'm not even talking about politics. You know very well what I mean. I think that in practice it is likely to slow down, to undermine citizens' membership and, ultimately, to harm the general interest. Yet this reform is fundamental and absolutely necessary. It must be balanced. Above all, we must try to convince and train as many people as possible, whether they work or are within companies. But it's your choice. I respect him and I have nothing to say. Moreover, for the AIP, we will see. We know that what has happened for several months has also been likely to jeopardize the negotiation of an IPA. However, I think, again in the interests of employers and workers, that having an IPA for 2017 and 2018 is important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u14	Mrs. Fonck, I may have made mistakes. However, in 2015, I organized several round tables. In June 2016, I sought the opinion of the Group of Ten on the project. On several occasions, I tried to convince both groups to give an opinion. At some point it was said that it was impossible to formulate an opinion within the Group of Ten or to reach consensus on certain points. In this situation, given the responsibility of the government, one is obliged to move forward by taking a decision. The Council of Ministers took part in the meeting on 28 October. It was agreed that the two Councils would be consulted again. I also regret that the Group of Ten was not able to give an opinion in June 2016. But that's the reality. Now, with the decision of 28 October and the passage of the text at first reading, I see no strong reaction in any direction. We'll see. If I think that a discussion in this committee is indeed important, it must be able to be based on texts finalised and approved by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u15	Minister, what you're saying is true. I've always told you and I've always recognized that you're extremely attentive to consultation. But that's not what I was aiming at in this case, since I know that, in fine – after that, we can argue wrongly or rightly – the government decided for the first time to make a decision, and then, a second time, to make a final decision. At the time of the budgetary adjustment, a decision had already been taken with regard to the social partners. I wasn't going back to all this. Here, you decide to keep quiet. That's basically what I was aiming for. I think we need to convince all citizens at one point or another – this remains the minister's responsibility – because otherwise, it is reading grids that have passed outwards and are oriented in one direction or the other. In any case, this only strengthens blocks of position between workers and employers. The challenge here is to go out with a reform to which everyone, or at least a maximum, can adhere. I don't want to go any further. I think there were several ways to proceed. You've made your choice. That's obviously your right.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u16	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, unfortunately, I am going to ask you about a question that dates back, since the announcement made by Makro and its parent company, the Metro Group, concerning its intention to launch a new restructuring as part of a global plan to transform the two brands into a loss of speed, dated 13 June 2016 last. It's five months later. We regret that the answer did not arrive earlier. Beyond that, I will adapt my question to the developments that have taken place in the meantime. Makro/Metro are six and nine stores in Belgium, more than 3,000 workers. In 2012, a first restructuring took place involving 374 employees. There were no layoffs but pre-pensions for those over 56 years of age in the group. Today, the balance sheet is the same as it was four years ago: the payroll has to be reduced, according to management. But the threats are relatively dramatic as it would be to dismiss 505 employees; in other words, one in six workers will lose their jobs. For unions and staff, management seems to be serving them the same soup as in 2012. On 17 June, a first meeting between management and trade unions took place in Antwerp, which was responsible for scheduling future meetings and negotiations between management and trade unions, as part of the Renault restructuring procedure. Management would have indicated that there would be no need for dry lay-offs. So social negotiations started at Makro. The management, despite all the information given by the trade union organisations, the questions that are asked, remains firm: 505 departures in the next two years. If there is room for negotiation, none can exist on the reclassification of staff, none can exist on the number of staff members to be separated. It is only at the level of pre-pensions that negotiations could take place. And so the bullet is in your side. In other words, Makro is ready to finance them from the age of 55, unlike the 56 or 57 years announced at the end of June. We heard the same speech when ING came to meet the Social Affairs Committee. At the end of June, when the announcements were made, management was fully integrated into government decisions, but here it would be ready to finance pre-pensions from age 55. What is your position on this matter? For trade unions, this could be a solution, but at the very least it would have to happen on a voluntary basis. Have you ever had contact with management not only with regard to dismissal, the number of employees, but also with the elements of the social plan that management would be prepared to put in place, given that management is ready to finance pre-pensions from the age of 55. Beyond this, other elements in this area need to be taken into account. Of course, there should be no dry lay-offs, but they were talking about outsourcing parts of departments and, in particular, the one specializing in Hifi-video-equipment to the well-known company, Media Markt. Have you had any contacts about this? Would we move towards the application of collective labour agreements, which would allow workers to keep their situation, benefits, seniority and level of pay?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u17	Mr President, Minister, two years ago, 374 jobs were lost at Makro. Today there are just over 3 000 left. The restructuring at the time did not prove to have produced the expected result. According to the Christian trade union LBC, this restructuring even led to problems with the availability of products and personnel. A new restructuring was announced at a special works council in June. In addition, a maximum of 505 jobs would disappear in our country. This would apply to all shops and headquarters in Wommelgem, near Antwerp. The transformation would be implemented gradually until the end of 2018. This question dates back to June, and at that time the unions and the employer sat together. Minister, what measures have you taken following the announced redundancies at Makro and Metro? Can you provide more information on the restructuring plan and the state of negotiations between trade unions and employer at Makro? What measures are you planning to take to support the affected workers? What support measures has the company been able to rely on since the previous restructuring? This is the second restructuring in the short term. What guarantees can the company give so that it will not have to restructure again in two years' time? In your view, is there no discrimination regarding the entitlement to the single payment unemployment scheme between the staff affected by the previous discharge round in 2014 and the staff at risk of losing their jobs today?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u18	Mrs Demir is not present to put her question No. 15151.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 14 June 2016, Makro/Metro notified my administration of its intention to proceed with a collective dismissal. You've been asking for figures. This collective dismissal concerns the following establishments: Lodelinsart, 45 out of 282 employees; Alleur, 81 out of 317 employees; Eke, 80 out of 425 employees; Deurne, 76 out of 381 employees; Machelen, 86 out of 413 employees; Sint-Pieters-Leeuw, 46 out of 307 employees; Makro Support Center Wommelgem, 36 out of 315 employees and Metro Wommelgem, 113 out of 454 employees. It is very important to point out that at present I do not have any information on the negotiations that are taking place between the social partners within the company. Priority is given to internal negotiations between employers' and trade union representatives. My intervention has not been requested so far. In addition, the social mediator responsible for this sector shall always be at the disposal of the social partners if his action is desirable. Here, the company is recognized as a restructuring company. In this case, it may still apply for a reduction of the age of unemployment benefit with an enterprise supplement (CCR) to 56 years for workers who have reached that age at the time of the announcement of collective dismissal, i.e. on 13 June 2016. The company may also apply the CLC No.117 which applies until 31 December 2016 for end-of-career jobs, where the age limit is increased to 55 years and for the RCC where the age limit can be lowered to 55 years as well. The other possibilities are undoubtedly also being examined by the social partners during the negotiations currently taking place. At the moment, I am not aware of the content of these negotiations. In addition to the figures I have given you, I can conclude that the social partners are still in negotiations and that we have no knowledge of the state of negotiations. If one asks for a mediator, one can get it in no time, but it has not yet been asked. As I explained, one can still count on the collective agreement No. 117 and possibly other content, but it is important that we do not intervene in the social dialogue within the enterprise, if that is not asked. We have adopted this attitude so far. I hope you will agree that the social dialogue in the company should be given every opportunity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u20	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u21	Minister, thank you for your answer. We will follow closely the negotiations. However, regarding the two years between the two restructuring plans, do you have any reflection or comment?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u22	If legislation changes in the meantime, which sometimes happens, then of course we have to comply with the new legislation. That is not an element of discrimination. It sometimes goes in the right direction and sometimes in the less good direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u23	It often goes in the less right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u24	We can discuss this, but the legislation has now been amended. That is not an element of discrimination. If so, one could go to the Constitutional Court and challenge it, but I do not think that this could be done successfully.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u25	Mr. Chair, Minister, on Thursday, June 16, 2016, the federal government's new economic measures were presented to the Management Committee of the NEBM. These are four measures that came into force on 1 July 2016. Three of them are particularly hard and, in my view, will not promote social dialogue. These measures affect many job seekers, young people with technical unemployment, people who have worked abroad and workers who have been laid off a few months after an increase in wages. The first measure is based on the principle that only those entitled to full unemployment benefits will still be entitled to benefits. In other words, young people who start working immediately after completing their studies will not receive any unemployment benefit, including in the case of economic unemployment. The second measure is that periods of occupation abroad should be treated only in a limited way, which may be problematic for the persons concerned. Finally, with the third measure, wage increases and working hours in recent months would no longer be taken into account in the calculation of unemployment benefits, compensation for dismissal and redundancy benefits. These measures have caused a scandal at the level of trade union organisations. Indeed, in my view, they show the government's willingness to stigmatize the unemployed. However, Minister, I assume that a dialogue has still taken place with these trade union organizations. Indeed, at some point, the question of fairness or, in any case, non-discrimination may arise. Minister, why would a worker who has been in economic unemployment, who has been working for five years, a year or six months, not be entitled to the same unemployment benefit as the others? For periods of occupation abroad, from the time the contributions were paid, why cannot they be assimilated? On the other hand, in the event of dismissal, the measure that the latest wage increase is not taken into account in the calculation of unemployment benefits seems to me to be discriminatory. And the fact that it is not taken into account in compensation for notice seems to me to be contrary to the 1978 Labour Contract Act. Therefore, will you take into account these elements of discrimination that I am aware of and make changes to the legislation in question?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Massin, the Royal Decree on the new unemployment savings measures just published entered into force on 1 October. Indeed, these are savings measures, but they are essentially based on the fight against fraud or, occasionally, on numerous observations made in previous years. The measures you are quoting call for some explanation. The Royal Decree provides for the same conditions for admission as for full unemployment for temporary unemployed persons who have been unemployed. This measure is intended to prevent workers from being hired and immediately placed into economic unemployment. This condition does not apply in the case of temporary unemployment for other reasons such as force majeure, weather, closure for annual holidays, etc. Young workers who already benefit from the integration allowance continue to receive them without having to meet the conditions of the traineeship. In this way, an employment trap is avoided. Young people who are eligible for integration benefits therefore have the advantage of working even if they experience temporary unemployment. On the other hand, the young person who has not previously received integration benefits, who reaches the age of 25 during the occupation and who is subsequently temporarily unemployed during that occupation, is considered to be satisfying the 25-year limit. This measure therefore does not cause any harm to young workers, quite the contrary! The second measure is clearly aimed at combating fraud. It provides that work performed in a country outside the European Union or not bound by a convention with Belgium may no longer be taken into account. Indeed, the verification of such services is difficult to apply since proof of occupation in that country cannot be obtained through standard forms and procedures in which foreign public services intervene, given the lack of agreement with the countries concerned. It is therefore difficult, if not impossible, to verify the authenticity of the documents submitted. In fact, the third measure you refer to concerns the retroactive correction that can be made, when a historically low wage or lower working hours and an abnormal increase in wages or hours of work are found. In practice, the ONEM is regularly confronted with such situations of improper use against which it was not possible to fight. This measure is of course only aimed at abnormal increases in wages or hours of work which cannot be justified and will certainly not penalise workers for whom increases are fully justified, because they correspond to reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u27	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, these are the same measures, but the impacts are not the same. At ONEM level, these new cost-saving measures will lead to an additional workload while no additional human and financial resources are foreseen. Therefore, my question is simple. Will these additional human and financial resources requested by ONEM be taken into account, so that this Office can best adapt to these new unemployment savings measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u28	Mr Massin, the new unemployment savings measures will not necessarily lead to additional workloads for the ONEM. Each measure modifying the regulation of unemployment necessarily has an impact on the work of the officers of the ONEM. A number of recent or planned measures concerning the digitalisation or simplification of the calculation of the professional past have the effect of simplifying certain aspects of the regulation or of automating more applications. Such measures to alleviate the workload offset those that lead to the increase in workload. In this context, and taking into account a limited budgetary framework, I will nevertheless remain attentive to the fact that ONEM has sufficient resources to carry out its tasks properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u29	Thank you, Minister. I am waiting for you to make a budgetary pilotage of this measure, in order to know whether the administration will not need any additional resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u30	Mr President, Minister, you have taken a number of measures to extend the motivated time-credit a little, but you also said in plenary that you would do another enlargement. In any case, this is largely insufficient for the target group to be able to provide long enough care. You know, like me, that the problem of a child with a disability or a chronically ill partner after receiving 39, 3 or 48 months of care, depending on the situation allowed by the time credit, is absolutely not resolved. Carers have been caring for an average of ten years. My questions are as follows. Firstly, why do you not give carers, of course, when they are known and recognized as carers, unlimited time credits? Secondly, what do you think of our proposal that carers should also build up pension rights and other social rights? Thirdly, and perhaps my most important question, what is the state of play in this government with regard to the roll-out of the family carers' statute? Is it true that there is disagreement in the government about this and what is this disagreement about?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reiterate that I fully recognise the importance of family care in our society and society. A caring and warm society invests in the well-being of all its citizens, and that is why I repeat that there are already many opportunities for providing care for the unemployed as well as for workers. Unemployed persons may, while retaining part of their unemployment benefit, be exempted from the obligation to seek employment when providing palliative care, provide for a seriously ill family member, a blood or related up to the second degree, or for a disabled child under the age of 21. For palliative care this can last for up to 2 months without requirement of family bond or cohabitation. Several people can take care of terminally ill. I think it is important to mention this because there was also some uncertainty about it. Care for a severely ill family member, a severely ill blood or related to the second degree, or a disabled child under the age of 21, may last for 48 months. For workers, the motivated time-credit for situations is similar to those for the unemployed. It may be requested to take care of his child under the age of eight and to provide care and assistance to a severely ill family member up to the second grade, to care for palliative care and to care for his seriously ill minor child or his disabled child under the age of 21. I am not telling you anything new, but there are also thematic leave for palliative care, parental leave or medical assistance. All together we come to a considerable period or periods during which the employee can provide care while maintaining the employment contract, protected against dismissal and with partial compensation for loss of income through the benefit paid by the RVA. For assistance to a sick child, four months of parental leave, twelve months of medical assistance and forty-eight months of motivated time credits could be the equivalent of almost seven years. If both partners use these possibilities in turn, this may amount to more than 13 years in total. If parental leave and medical assistance are taken half-time, there will be 16 months for each partner. The periods covered by interruption benefits are regarded as periods treated as such for social security purposes and therefore for pension rights. For the record, I am not saying that the scheme meets all the situations that can happen. Nevertheless, I believe in great modesty that we cannot speak of a restrictive regime. A limited further expansion of the possibilities can further help to cope with the most poignant situations. That is why I have launched the proposal to extend the time-credit for palliative care by one month and for other care motives by three months. Given the difficult current budgetary situation, the extent to which enlargement is feasible in the short term will have to be determined. In the meantime, however, as you know, that was approved during the budget negotiations. So I don't know where you're getting that there's gonna be a disagreement. At this point in particular, I noted that it was precisely at first reading on 28 October 2016 that the decision was taken to approve it. I referred to that earlier. I asked the NAR to examine how to optimise care leave in order to better respond to the specific needs of carers and how to make the modalities of care leave more flexible in order to better respond to certain specific situations of carers. I also asked the NAR to examine how to update the unemployment regulation for care leave, taking into account the new forms of cohabitation, and, finally, how to apply the leave for compelling reasons in certain situations of caregivers in the event of an acute unforeseen situation. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have briefly given an overview of what already exists. I do not think it can be said that this is restrictive. We have extended it for certain situations and I have asked the National Labour Council a number of additional questions. You know, ma'am, that I also take the powers into account. There are also powers at regional level, but you also know that fellow Members in those regional governments want to move forward on this dossier that has been going on for a long time. Step by step, we're making progress. I hope that the National Labour Council will respond unanimously to all these questions as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for listing this again. When I speak of a disagreement or disagreement in the government, I am referring specifically to the status of the caregiver. You can walk different slopes there. There is the definition of who is a caregiver or not, whether only those in need of care are eligible or not, what can happen around breathing breaks and so on. I believe I understand that this has not yet been completely knocked off within the government. I am pleased that you have called in the NAR and at least also say that you recognise the full importance and also consult with the Länder. I follow this closely, as you know, and you speak of a caring and warm society. I can therefore expect to know a caring and warm government in this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u33	Questions Nos 13377 by Mrs Fonck, 14083 by Mr Lachaert, 14090, 14091 and 14093 by Mr Hedebouw, 14101 by Mrs Fonck, 14163 by Mrs Pas and 14353 by Mrs Vanheste have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u34	We've already discussed it. That's what I was explaining to you earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u35	Mr President, Minister, this question is essentially for information, but it still seems interesting to me and it necessarily concerns all women at some point. In July 2015, the European Commission, by communiqué, expressed its willingness to pave the way for new initiatives to improve the lives of parents, mothers and reconciliation between work and private life. I would like to sum up the extract, which appears in extenso in the written text of my question. Beyond a public consultation that has been carried out, the European Commission has decided to make a whole work programme for 2016. We are almost at the end of 2016. A roadmap was published in August 2015 by the European Commission to modernise and adapt the current legal and policy framework of the European Union so that parents with children can better balance their family and professional responsibilities. Minister, are you aware of the proposals currently on the table? If my information is correct, the entire consultation phase is now complete at EU level. What is Belgium's position on these proposals? In the federal government, have you addressed this issue to see how you will move forward and what measures will you put on the table as a matter of priority?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u36	Mr President, Mrs Fonck, in July 2016, the European Commission launched a second phase of consultation with the social partners at European level on the issue of reconciliation between work and private life. The Commission wants to promote equality between men and women and to remedy the low participation of women in the labour market. The results of this second consultation are not yet known. Unfortunately, in this situation, it is not possible for me to answer your question. Without triumphalism, I would like to point out that Belgium has always been a leading figure in this field. Indeed, Belgium has already provided paternity leave and leave for caregivers, proposals which are currently on the table. As you know, this type of leave has been in existence for several years. Nevertheless, the system we benefit from can always be improved.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u37	Mr Minister, it would be good if as soon as you get the documents from the European Union consultation, we could also dispose of them in parallel with the government, since this information is factual. All I have to do is visit their website every day, you'll tell me. Yes, but sometimes they are sent in advance to the government and above all, you are proactively informed. I think there are still half-mamans in Belgium. Speaking of half-mamans, I am targeting the independents who are now, in fact, three-quarters of mothers, since there is still a hiatus. It is also mothers who adopt and they are considered to be everything, except as mothers like the others. This is not the first time that I have addressed the issue. Finally, in relation to the decisions you have taken and, in particular, the decisions on the thematic time credit that you have extended – this is very specific because it concerns, in particular, the situations of sick children – I would like to reiterate the fact that the government has decided not to link up part-time credits and to give the same maximum number of time limits in which mothers can take them. It seems to me that this is a shame not only for the mothers themselves but also for the employers. They have every interest in employing young women, even on a part-time basis, to keep an anchor in the enterprise and to retain work experience rather than disappearing for a longer period, knowing that reintegration into the labour market is much more complex. I remain convinced that these measures need to be reviewed and corrected, even if they are to reverse and stick to part-time work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u38	Deputy Prime Minister, foreign or non-European migrant workers are struggling to find a job in our country, and that is not the case. Indeed, in Flanders and Wallonia, the employment rate of these categories continues to decline. Currently, the employment rate of persons of foreign origin in Belgium is one of the lowest in Europe, 45%. Deputy Prime Minister, I have already asked you several times about the situation of this category of workers. One can only regret the evolution of the statistics concerning them. How do you explain that the employment rate for this category of workers is so low in our country? Last year, you said that you had to dare go further in measures to combat discrimination in hiring. Where are we today? What about the measure of the mystery call you were defending? What other measures are in place to improve the employment rate of these citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u39	Mr Daerden, the causes are complex, and I shall address here only the main factors explaining this state of affairs. It is not necessary to point one or the other factor, but to consider the intersection of these as the main cause. These are:- discrimination in hiring; - the segmentation of the labour market and the low mobility of the labour market; - thresholds for access to our labour market; - a lack of a positive model; - significant gaps in our education system; - the history of migration in our country. The socio-economic monitoring carried out by the SPF Emploi in close cooperation with Unia has been advocating for several years for a policy in several stages, which aims, jointly and in particular, to facilitate or simplify access to the labour market and vocational mobility, to reduce the disparities in the performance of pupils in education, irrespective of their geographical, social, cultural or economic origin, and, of course, to strengthen the anti-discrimination policy at the level of competences linked to the Federal State and relating to the labour market. The measures launched under this legislature are aimed at controlling wage costs, fighting job traps and providing more employment opportunities. However, the unstable international economic situation, but above all the socio-political context linked to international migration, at European level, is not a positive factor in the success of public action in this field. With regard to anti-discrimination legislation and its development as such, I refer you to the initiatives my colleague Elke Sleurs has taken in this area. In conclusion, you know that the competences related to the promotion of the integration of people of foreign origin into the labour market are more located within the regional and Community powers. Nevertheless, in a context of ever more polarised public opinion on this subject, consultation with several political colours is necessary and I always wish to bring together the ministers responsible for employment, education, migration and integration in Belgium as a minimum in consultation committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u40	Minister, thank you for your answers. The causes are complex and the factors are multiple, as you mentioned, and they are not all related to the federal government. There is indeed a need for consultation meetings on this subject. I am counting on you to introduce them and keep us informed of the outcome of these meetings. One element that is clear from the federal level is the fight against discrimination, and here little has really been achieved on the ground. We can regret it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u41	Mr President, Minister, this is actually a delayed question that I have already put to you in mid-September. I don't know if there's been much progress in this file in the meantime. An important element has changed, however, in the sense that you are now a resident of the port city. I am counting on the efforts made before the law and for its modernisation to serve our port to be strengthened. This is a follow-up question I've asked several times. In my view, the European Commission's letter of formal notice has still not been stopped. There have already been a number of consultations. In December last year, you told me that Commissioner Bulc responded positively to the question of whether the action plan had been implemented. It would therefore be merely a formality if the six steps of the procedure were completed. In the meantime, there have been discussions again and there are regular press releases on this subject, although we cannot always rely on it. I would therefore like to hear from you the discussions that have taken place in the meantime. What are the consequences? What are the conclusions? Is there any need for additional adjustments to stop the notice of default? If so, which one? If not, when will the procedure be stopped? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u42	Mr President, Minister, the light on the European complaint against dock workers is still orange. So it can turn green or red, or stay orange. The port unions are hoping for a green light. They regret that no clarification has yet been given. Last week, the Socialist Trade Union BTB informed its members in a newsletter that it received positive signals from your cabinet. Additional questions have been asked by Europe in relation to the plan, but they would not be about the essence. The withdrawal of the complaint should still be on the agenda of a Council of Commissioners in November. Is that the case? At the same time, there are a number of employers, including Fernand Huts, who, in my opinion, hope for red light, or that it remains at least orange, so that there is permanent curatel from Europe to the reform process in Belgium. Meanwhile, a KB has already been published that alters the recognition of port workers and creates the parallel circuit. But there are still many loose ends that need to be dealt with through collective bargaining agreements. Meanwhile, a dozen companies have already gone to the Council of State to challenge the published KB. When the dock workers approved the referendum on 15 June with 90% of the votes cast, you communicated remarkably combatively, including in plenary. It was said: "Minister for Work Kris Peeters will consult with European Commissioner Bulc in the near future to hand over the final solution that has been achieved and approved, so that the notice of default can be classified." After a meeting between your cabinet and Commissioner Bulc's cabinet on Wednesday, 21 September, a spokesperson of your cabinet did not want to give details to the press. "As it was an informal consultation, we do not communicate about the conversation," was the only thing that could be picked up. The long wait for clear communication on the conclusion of the infringement procedure naturally feeds the uncertainty and nervousness of the dock workers. They hoped for more clarification in September, but their patience was tested again. Can you state clearly when and how the European infringement procedure against the Major Act will be classified? From your cabinet it has always been communicated that everything was done in close consultation and tested by the Commission services. Today, however, it appears that it would take months to stop the procedure. How do you explain this? The limited information released since July shows that the European Commissioner's services still had some questions about your action plan. What specific questions are we talking about? What answers did you give? We also heard that a dozen companies filed a complaint with the Council of State for the destruction of the Royal Decree. According to BTB, these are Cotton Natie, Logisport, Middlegate, MVH Logistics/Stowadoring, Vivaldis, VIO Interim, Synergy Belgium, Konvert Vlaanderen, Manpower Belgium and Global Port Training. Can you confirm this? Does the procedure at the Council of State have an effect on the conclusion of the European procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u43	Mr President, Mr Klaps, Mr Hedebouw, first of all I would like to say that the social partners in port and port work have so far shown incredible patience. That's not my credit, but it's theirs. Both the port workers concerned and the companies concerned have negotiated very carefully and have been very patient so far. They have certainly also protected themselves from taking tough positions in public in order to contribute to a possible success. This is unique and very commendable, which is why I would like to mention it here. As you know, on 11 December 2015, I forwarded an action plan to Commissioner Bulc. These elements had to be formalised by the end of June 2016. A KB, five collective agreements and two protocols were written and negotiated by the social partners in close cooperation with the services of the European Commission. This resulted in a global agreement between the social partners on 26 April and was adopted on 15 June 2016 in the referendum among port workers. The KB was published on 13 July 2016 and the collective agreements were signed. The texts were sent to the Commissioner together with their French translation on 6 July 2016. On 13 July 2016, I met Commissioner Bulc to explain these texts. It welcomed the reform that we had made on this point and the fact that this was done through a social dialogue. In the meantime, the Commission services have carried out a legal analysis and a number of questions were asked for an explanation in order to complete them. It is clear from these questions that the elements of the reform are not affected. These are informative questions about the implementation of the reform. On 21 September, representatives of my cabinet met members of the Bulgarian cabinet to explain further. One of the clarifications requested concerned, for example, the system that would be used to allow port workers already recognised in the past to quickly be granted new recognition for a new short assignment from 2020. This issue was also discussed in the Joint Committee so that we could reply to the Commission that it is the intention of the system to allow the employer who employs an employee who is in that case to be confirmed electronically and almost immediately that recognition is in order when all the conditions are met. These kinds of questions were asked. This is also understandable, since the Commission wishes to establish that the intention of the amendments is also in line with practice. Of course, as has already been said, we have indicated that the agreement reached between the social partners and I is fully in line with the action plan which Commissioner Bulc had already confirmed to me earlier that this is in principle sufficient to bring the procedure to an end. So I still have every confidence in it. To the question of when the notice of default will end, I can only answer that unfortunately the timing is not in my hands but in that of the Commissioner and her fellow Members. The Commission shall hold a monthly meeting on the examination of notices of formal notice. Mr Hedebouw, it is true that a number of companies have appealed to the Council of State with regard to the Royal Decree. You have listed them all nicely, without forgetting a company or without adding one that would not have done so. I cannot, of course, comment on the current court cases, but a lawyer is clearly appointed who will put the necessary arguments on the table to demonstrate the compliance of the Royal Decree with all the higher legal rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for this progress report, as I shall call it, as long as the procedure is still in progress. I believe that this uncertainty is of no benefit to anyone. We would all like to get rid of that in this dossier. You yourself have said on several occasions that this agreement is only a first step and that there is further work to be done in relation to the port. In the meantime, thank goodness we are getting reports that a lot of investment is still taking place in our port and that many additional jobs are being created there. However, much more is possible. That is why we need to move forward and this procedure should be completed in one way or another. I forgot to ask the following question, and perhaps you still have the opportunity to answer them. Is there any timing on the procedure at the Council of State to which Mr Hedebouw referred? This, too, can influence the procedure. Could that lead to an additional delay? Besides, what if they're right?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u45	Mr Klaps, we live in the rule of law. You may not know the companies involved, but it is a pity that they are taking such action.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u46	Minister, I'm a little less enthusiastic. In your opinion, Commissioner Bulc welcomes the reforms, but it would be thought that if anyone were happy about something, things would go a little faster. So you confirm from your own sources, from the cabinet itself, that it is only a question of information and that the agreement should normally be concluded in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u47	Mr Hedebouw, I will tell you the good news immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u48	I'm counting on that, Minister. Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u49	Mr President, Minister, since its creation, ORPSS (formerly OSSOM) has not offered the possibility to cover cooperation workers, expatriate staff of development cooperation, in the area of unemployment. In the past, this situation was not a problem. In fact, the ONEM assimilated work benefits provided abroad to benefits in Belgium, which meant that the days devoted to the implementation of projects or programmes were included in the recording of working days enabling these cooperants to obtain unemployment benefits, where appropriate. Subsequently, the ONEM decided to make such assimilation conditional on the provision of at least one working day in Belgium with payment of ONSS contributions. Your Government has chosen to change the rules once again, since since 1 October 2016, in order to be able to benefit from the assimilation of periods taken abroad, it is necessary, on the one hand, that these days be provided within the limits of bilateral and international agreements and, on the other hand, that on his return, the worker is employed for at least three months. Mr Minister, you are aware that there is not often a bilateral agreement with partner countries in our development cooperation policy. In addition, it is no longer possible to regularize the period of work by providing at least one day. The changes that have been made by the government to the regulation of unemployment will have devastating consequences for expatriate workers, who will be excluded from unemployment benefits, but also obviously for our development cooperation, since this will not encourage workers to take this step. Minister, what are you going to do to ensure the attractiveness and survival of the Belgian development cooperation sector? How will you preserve access to unemployment benefits for all those courageous people who have invested abroad in development cooperation programmes? They are often large experts, under temporary contracts, given the specificity of projects and programmes, which are limited in time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u50	Mrs Gronovius, I confirm that the regulation of unemployment has recently been amended in response to a measure decided by the government in the context of the anti-fraud measures taken during this year's budgetary conclave. Employment benefits abroad are now eligible for admission to the unemployment benefit scheme. There are two elements: benefits carried out in a country with which Belgium is bound by an international convention and if, after the work carried out abroad, the worker has performed employment benefits as a wage-earners in Belgium for a minimum period of three months. The aim of this new government measure is clearly to combat fraud, since it has been found that many people have been admitted to unemployment on the basis of benefits abroad whose veracity has not been verified. Indeed, these measures have an impact on expatriated workers who have not performed any previous employment in Belgium and have not been able to build up unemployment rights through foreign employment services for, for example, a Belgian development organisation in accordance with social security legislation. The new scheme does not change the rules that allow an employee to retain his entitlement to unemployment benefit if he has previously performed sufficient working days in Belgium. The reference period may be extended by a maximum of 15 years, while the three-year period may be extended by a maximum of 12 years. An expatriate worker who attests to previous benefits in Belgium or in a country bound by an agreement may invoke these two provisions and be admitted on that basis. The situation of expatriates bound by temporary contracts to time-limited programs, which you quote in your question, should therefore not be a problem if these workers meet the above conditions. Otherwise, I cannot derogate from the general rule applicable to all workers. However, there is a specific problem for those who have already been sent out by a Belgian development cooperation institution before the new regulation. I have instructed the RVA to draft a royal decision for that particular group, which allows for the transitional measures which allow them to retain their rights to unemployment benefits even after one day of employment in Belgium. In addition, with Minister De Block as soon as possible, I will look at how there can be an extension at the level of social security, whereby this group of people can pay a contribution to the unemployment sector and thus open up unemployment rights if they work abroad in the framework of Belgian development cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u51	Minister, for which groups of people?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u52	For NGO staff who have not worked in Belgium. I asked for an appropriate solution. We're working on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u53	I understood that you were working on a solution. I thank you for that and hope that it will be found quickly to reassure those people who are somewhat worried.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u54	Mr President, Minister, my question was asked in response to your reply in spring 2016, in which you said that an evaluation was being carried out within the management committee itself. I understand the report is in the meantime. My first question therefore lapses. After all, I have been told that the report is here. However, my questions are as follows. What conclusions can we draw from that report? Because there is a lot of discussion and some of the tower continue to blow that the unions are far too expensive to do that work, we may be able to make a comparison of the cost per thousand payouts between the various payouts institutions, including the Hulpkas. In this sense, there are perhaps other things in the evaluation that can stand out and that we can take with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u55	Mr President, Mr Vercamer, in connection with your question, allow me to clarify some of the rules that you probably know, but which I would like to mention for the report and for the sake of clarity to the other Members. The purpose of the unemployment benefit pay institutions is to provide all necessary information and documents to the unemployed, all applications to submit benefits to regional entities of the RVA, as well as unemployment benefits and other related benefits. They will be reimbursed by the public authorities as compensation for the administrative costs incurred. The approved private payout institutions for unemployment benefits and the Auxiliary Cash for Unemployment benefits should also keep management accounts in accordance with the accounting rules of the public social security institutions. The RVA shall be responsible for the auditing of those payout institutions. He shall check the accounts of the management accounts on the spot. An annual report shall be drawn up for the Minister responsible for unemployment regulation. The report contains an analysis of the annual accounts of the four payout institutions as well as a discussion of the audit work of the RVA. In the last chapter, a cost per thousand payments is calculated per payout institution. The cost per case paid is the following: ACV for 2013 EUR 20 953.85 and for 2014 EUR 20 657.59, representing a reduction of 1.41 %; the ABBRD for 2013 EUR 16 338.13, for 2014 EUR 17 387,72, representing an increase of 6.42 %; the ACLVB for 2013 EUR 25 113,18, for 2014 EUR 25 701, representing an increase of 2.34 %; the Auxiliary Cash for 2013 EUR 28 953,35, for 2014 EUR 29 171,81, representing an increase of 0.75 %. The latest report concerns the audit and analysis carried out by the RVA on the management accounts for the financial year 2014. It was approved by the Management Committee of the RVA at the meeting of 22 September 2016. Following the approval of the minutes by the Management Committee at the next meeting, this report will be forwarded to me together with the final minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u56	Thank you, Minister, for this interesting answer. In any case, this shows that the Auxiliary Cash is more than 35% more expensive than the average, thus proving that the private institutions organise the payments in a very efficient way. Thanks for the heads-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u57	Mr Minister, we have talked about this here very little, and we will be discussing again tomorrow the European directive implementing Directive 96/71 on secondment. Here I will talk more specifically about the transport sector.You have publicly announced that you are preparing a bill to ensure that foreign transport companies and their drivers respect Belgian wages and conditions of employment. So far, no problem, I agree a thousand times on the title. You said that "the bill will make a significant contribution to the fight against social dumping and will promote fair competition in the transport sector". Some appear to be much less in line with these statements. For example, Febetra (the Royal Belgian Federation of Transporters and Logistics Service Providers), warns against disproportionate expectations for this project. Similarly, the UBT offers alternative solutions that it considers to be more effective. This is an important subject, on which our positions will not differ. Now we are not aware of how you will move forward on this bill. What's the status? Is he in the Council of State? Could you enlighten us and enlighten those involved in the transport sector? What does this project contain, which creates such questions about ensuring greater efficiency? Because, obviously, those who are directly concerned seem not to adhere to the effectiveness that you put forward in your communication.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u58	Mr President, Minister, the transport sector is particularly affected by social dumping, against which it is difficult to fight. I welcome the announcement of your bill in preparation, which would subject drivers of foreign heavy goods vehicles to the same pay and working conditions as Belgian drivers. But as Mrs Fonck just mentioned, several actors doubt the effectiveness of your project. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to know a little more about this one. How does your bill allow foreign companies and their drivers to comply with Belgian wages and conditions of employment? What are the control procedures? Have you been inspired by systems practiced abroad, such as in Germany or France? It would seem that they would have some effectiveness. Last February, the transport sector adopted a plan for fair competition. Does your project include any of the measures included in this plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law regulating a number of principles, in order to determine the law applicable to employment contracts for workers employed in transport activities, was approved by the Council of Ministers on 7 October 2016. It was forwarded to the Council of State for its opinion and will then be submitted to Parliament. We have not yet received the opinion of the Council of State, but I hope that we will receive it in the next few days. The purpose of this draft law is to introduce into Belgian labour law for the transport sector the principles set out in the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union with regard to the determination of the law applicable to the contract of employment in the event of a conflict of laws, within the meaning of two texts of private international law, namely the Rome Convention and the Rome I Regulation. In this regard, the above-mentioned draft will apply in particular the lessons learned from the judgments of the Koelsch and Voogsgeerd Court. In those judgments, the Court ruled on how to interpret, in the event of a conflict of laws, the criterion of attachment to the place of usual work. This criterion allows it itself to determine, within the limits laid down in the above two texts of private international law, which law is applicable to the contract of employment. The Court thus held as a principle that, when a worker carries out his activities in several States, the country in which he ordinarily carries out his work is the country in which, or from which, having regard to all the elements which characterize that activity, the worker fulfils most of his obligations towards his employer. Implementing this jurisprudential principle, as set out by the Court, the bill will also provide for what elements must be taken into account in determining the place from which the worker fulfils most of his obligations. This is, for example, the place from which the worker performs his transport tasks, receives instructions on missions and organises his work. In view of the above, in so far as in a particular case it has been established that, for a worker whose employer is established in a country other than Belgium and who usually performs his work in Belgium or from Belgium, the working conditions provided for by Belgian labour law will apply to that worker. The draft law, as described above, will take into account the request for the transport sector made by the National Labour Council in its Opinion No. 1982 of 4 May 2016 and point 15 of the Plan for Fair Competition in the Transport Sector of 3 February 2016. This plan was signed, among other things, by the Royal Belgian Federation of Transporters and Logistics Service Providers (Febetra) and the UBT. In so far as the purpose of this draft law is the incorporation into Belgian law of European case law concerning the determination of the law applicable to the contract of employment, it does not provide for new measures with regard to the monitoring of compliance with such conditions of employment. Finally, the European Commission has decided to initiate proceedings against France and Germany because of the consequences of applying minimum wage legislation to the road sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u60	Minister, thank you for your answers. The challenge is to end up with equal work for equal pay. There is a difficulty, since mobility is an additional factor in the transport sector. Especially since some carriers operate in different countries. In this respect, the question is, of course, whether your bill will avoid some form of distortion, because as a result of this mobility, carriers would in fact escape the equivalent of the minimum hourly wage. This is one of the major issues to be addressed. The control component is also an important aspect. I do not imagine that workers in the transport sector appear spontaneously to the courts, while they are in secondment circumstances, to indicate that there is a problem. Furthermore, in February, a plan for fair competition was signed between employers and transport unions. There were thirty measurements. I am told that in your bill, only one measure of this plan has been endorsed by employers and unions. In practice, it would be wise to make rapid progress on these complementary measures, given the stakes and the gradual destruction of jobs as a result of this dumping.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u61	Minister, thank you for your answer. On this basis, the draft law will be submitted promptly to Parliament and will allow for a review of this topic. This will not only be settled by this project, but I hope a small step forward will be possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u62	Mr President, Minister, thanks to the measures taken by this government, pensioners over 65 years of age or with a full career can earn unlimited additional income. We see in practice that companies like to use retired former workers, because they often have the right knowledge and experience, which makes them an easy added value for those companies. They are often used for short periods, to cover busy periods or to temporarily replace workers. However, it is now clear that these pensioners face a great deal of administrative burdens. For each period of work, employers' social secretariats are required to complete long-term questionnaires. Moreover, the questionnaires have not been adapted to the fact that pensioners are employed in the workplace. For example, the forms do not mention the status of retired persons, which leads to even more red tape. The result is often extensive correspondence between the employer, the retired employee and the social secretariats to solve the problems. Due to the measures you have taken before, more and more people will be able and willing to work after their retirement. That is why it is also necessary for us to resolve such Kafkaian situations, hence the following questions. Are you planning measures to inform and sensitise employers and social secretariats about the presence of retired former employees among potential employees? Is there anything in the pipeline to ease the administrative procedures for that group?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Spoelen, I must honestly admit that I have not yet been told that there are specific problems with the administrative operation of retired workers returning to work. If you have any information in that connection, we might be able to exchange them. The situation surprises me, since it is not new that pensioners can work. That was also the case in the past. The government has only decided to create the possibility for pensioners to combine the pension with a paid wage activity from the statutory retirement age and also to broaden that possibility. By expanding, maybe more people want to get back to work. Maybe the problem used to exist. I have asked myself about the administration on the employment of pensioners in the field, and it is reported that it has even been simplified under the new legislation. On the subject of complaints, the social secretariats, on the basis of my information, once again, I speak in two words, and I look forward to the additional information you may give me, and I do not experience anything shocking. The social secretariats informed me, when I informed them of your question as to whether there were any problems in that area, that nothing shocking had emerged. Only the DmfA declaration should mention the employment of pensioners. This concerns a communication between the employer and the RSZ. Moreover, there are still exceptional situations. If the employment of pensioners is hampered by excessive administrative burdens, this must indeed be addressed. I would regret that, and I would like to continue to inform the Minister for Pensions and the Administrative Simplification Service on this matter. If you'll give me any additional information, I'd like to take a look at it. I regret, along with you, that administrative obstacles would make it impossible for retired workers to continue working or to create serious obstacles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u64	Mr Minister, I hope that the cases that have been reported to me are exceptions. I'll be sure to transfer the files. Otherwise, I hope that you are right and that there are no major problems in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u65	Minister, contrary to what Mr Spoorsen has just said, complaints received from the UNIA Equal Opportunities Centre in recent months show that there are a great deal of prejudices towards older workers. Despite all the campaigns that have been launched in the past, they are very difficult to get a job. Despite their experience and competences, they are not even invited to interviews. Not only Unia claims that. Several studies were made about it. Only 5 % will be invited or will receive an answer to an application. Unia's research shows that as many as 60% of applicants experience age discrimination. Unia fears that this number will increase further. What is most worrying is that we are dealing with 45-plussers. Speaking of old people, 45-plussers...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u66	They're young.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u67	For us, Minister, but the older people are getting, the more people think the others are young. 45-plussers, however, can hardly be regarded as old people. That's really very disturbing. The Vandenbroucke Committee's pension report also stressed the need to ensure that people can work longer. This government has raised the retirement age to 67 years, but we have already said in several discussions that this is obviously not enough. We must ensure that people can work longer. Moreover, if they are not adopted, we have a problem. My question dates back to September 2016. In the Radio 1 program The Morning you then recognized the problem. You said that you would certainly take a number of actions on this. Could you then give us a hint of the veil and tell us what action is being taken to at least remove those older workers from discrimination?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u68	I had almost exactly the same question as Mrs Temmerman. You spoke about tackling this particular form of discrimination and working together with employers' organisations and the social partners. You spoke very clearly about taking action, possible sanctions and concrete measures. Of course, I am pleased to hear that. I was wondering what the situation was. When will this be placed on the agenda for discussion with the social partners? What are your ideas, both in terms of concrete measures and in terms of sanctions, if these concrete measures prove to be unsuccessful? My second question concerns the resolution that we have also adopted on discrimination in the labour market. I questioned you about this in June of this year. In the meantime, fortunately, a number of steps have been taken forward. You did not answer a number of questions at the time, which is why I am asking them again. What we do know now is that an agreement has been reached between the social partners in the Joint Committee 23.01. We've all been able to see that. There are also many other sectors. What initiatives have you taken for them? How far is it? You also told me that you were waiting for the review of the anti-discrimination law to see if the establishment of an equality agency was necessary. Is there any more clarity about that? After the internal reorganisation of Unia, you would discuss with them, with your Department of Monitoring of Social Laws and with the Institute for Equality of Women and Men how to organise effective control. Has that meeting started in the meantime? Has it worked out yet? I assume that you agree with me that it is necessary to provide for a system where targeted controls on companies are possible as a last step, as a stick behind the door, when companies continue to discriminate persistently despite self-regulation. In the end, that is one of the elements of the resolution. Finally, I recall my next question that you did not answer it in June. Still, she's important because she's about her own house. Have you already consulted with other public authorities to carry out targeted controls in all public institutions and bodies that can be included in the public sector or to a significant extent funded by public funds? What was the outcome of this consultation? What about the system of targeted checks at the federal government as an employer?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u69	Mr President, Minister, the context has been traced by my colleagues. What is calling for is not only the raw figures, but their evolution over time. There is a 60% increase over 2015. These include "young people", but also and above all "older people", those over the age of 45. By encouraging people to work longer – up to the age of 67 – you encourage them to look for a job or at least keep the one they have. And, on the other hand, there are major obstacles for them, partly related to wages. The employer's cost is actually higher in the light of the provisions that exist in Belgium. But it's not just that. You announced that you wanted to see with the social partners how to deal with this form of discrimination in hiring. I would like to hear you on the subject, but first and foremost on the concrete actions you intend to take. You also mentioned the creation of an equality agency. Do you maintain such a measure? What exactly would this equality agency do for? Will it only need to make observations, have figures and report? Or will it really be competent and have the levers for action? I am thinking, for example, of providing its agents with prerogatives similar to those of social inspectors. I am, of course, talking about human resources and possibilities for control. Why not carry out tests, if any? It seems to me that there will have to be cooperation with Unia and the Institute for Gender Equality. Minister, thank you already for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u70	Mr President, Mr Minister, my question obviously goes along with those of my colleagues. The evidence of age discrimination is very real and the phenomenon is increasing, which obviously influences the employment rate of seniors. I welcome your exit on the subject, saying that the problem had to be taken up and discussed with the social partners in order to find ways to combat this phenomenon by means of sanctions and concrete measures. Can you tell us more about the timing you're considering? Have you ever started these discussions or not? Have any leads ever been cleared?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u71	I would like to put this question in connection with the follow-up to the resolution on discrimination in the labour market which we adopted in the Chamber last year. We agreed that sectors would primarily combat discrimination through self-regulation initiatives. In addition, however, a second step was absolutely necessary. We asked the government to provide a legal instrument to effectively identify and tackle discrimination. The social partners of the Joint Temporary Committee have already taken an initial initiative to develop action points. That consultation was recently concluded with an agreement on 27 September 2016 on tackling discrimination in their sector. It applies to all legally protected grounds of discrimination, such as age, ethnic origin, etc. However, we note in the agreement that mystery calls for employers' organisations should only fit into the system of self-regulation, which we proposed in our resolution as a first step. The workers' organizations, on the other hand, believe that mystery calls should also be organised effectively by the competent authorities. Let me be clear: in the resolution adopted by the majority, we have certainly argued for both, for an en-en-story. We are not only advocating mystery calls that the sector itself organises. That is, of course, a good idea. That is why, in the resolution, we strongly advocated targeted anonymous inspections by the public authorities with a view to carrying out a judicial investigation. The inspection should be able to carry out mystery calls. You were asked to provide for this in the legal framework, so that, if necessary, the evidence can also be passed on in the context of the judicial investigation. I have a number of questions here, Minister. How do you see the agreement as an example for other sectors? Do you have an insight into the state of social dialogue in other sectors? How will you deal with it in the other sectors? As part of the first step, how will there be transparency to the public authorities on the results of self-regulation in the interim sector? What results will the inspection have? What agreements have been reached and what time will the results of self-regulation be communicated to the public authorities? Once the results are known, a potential offender would be given a time limit to act as a rule. We had already proposed this in this way in our resolution. The employer should then prove that he has taken clear measures to tackle discrimination. Failing that, the agreement was that targeted anonymous checks would be carried out with a view to drawing up a report that would be forwarded to the court. This passage from the agreement within the Joint Committee may therefore need to be refined or further developed. What role will you play in this? Will you take legislative or administrative initiatives to enable these targeted anonymous inspections via the inspection? If so, within what timing? Again, this is a question from the majority. I am looking at my fellow Members from the majority who have co-signed this, as is the President. We have asked for this and we want to press for this resolution to be implemented. Each minister has a set of responsibilities in this regard. The aspect of the mystery calls is your responsibility. Minister Vandeput is responsible for tackling discrimination within the government. Mrs Sleurs is evaluating the anti-discrimination laws. It is certainly not the case that only you are competent for this, but you are competent for this aspect. I hope you will want to take the necessary steps to make progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u72	Mr President, in line with the track policy developed in the resolution, self-regulation within the relevant sectors is primarily being developed. The social partners of the 322.01 Joint Committee were the first to take the initiative to develop action on this issue in various areas, so that a global approach can be found. These include both initiatives which the social partners will take in the framework of sectoral consultations and recommendations to the relevant authorities and other bodies on this issue. These consultations have recently been successfully concluded. On 27 September 2016, the social partners of the Joint Committee 322.01 concluded a comprehensive agreement on tackling discrimination in their sector. The social partners have explicitly confirmed that this applies to all legal protected grounds, such as age, ethnic origin, etc. I will pass this agreement on to the other sectors through the Chairs of the Joint Committees as a best practice in order to stimulate social dialogue on this subject. Through the FOD WASO we can further monitor and evaluate this. However, the social partners would like to reiterate that action in the service cheque sector only makes sense if the problem of discrimination in society in general and in the labour market in particular is addressed in the broadest sense. Without an integrated approach, little will change in substance. They point out that in the service cheque sector it is mainly about how to deal with discriminatory questions from private customers with regard to service cheque workers. The actions proposed by the social partners above aim at a comprehensive approach, which is at both federal and other levels. The social partners want to give companies the opportunity to develop a coherent anti-discrimination policy, regardless of federal or regional areas of competence. Actions will be organised around training and training, business policy, customer agreement clauses, recognition criteria, mystery calls, organised by the industry itself, and information campaigns. With regard to the mystery calls, further consultation is planned on the concrete modalities of the transfer of data from self-regulation. As always, the social partners are first in line. We follow it very closely. If so, we are ready to facilitate an agreement on this subject, in close cooperation with the inspection services. I follow the further recommendations of the sectoral social partners. In the meantime, we will continue to work on the phased approach, which could eventually lead to a legislative initiative, to the extent necessary, taking into account the results of social dialogue at sectoral level. The legal initiative will depend on the further outcome of the social consultation and the way in which the administration can respond to this, within its legally available research possibilities, without any legal adjustment if it can, with legal adjustment if it has to. Maybe it's a little early to be able to estimate that. In the meantime, my Department of Monitoring of Social Laws has initiated consultations with its contacts at the former Centre for Equality of Opportunities and for Combating Racism, now called Unia, and the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, in order to examine together how the implementation of targeted and proactive controls could be technically understood in the future and what role Unia and the Institute could play in supporting or steering this. It will also be an opportunity to review and, if necessary, update the cooperation protocol between the Monitoring of Social Laws and the former Centre, on the basis of the outcome of the sectoral regulatory arrangements. The more recent cooperation agreement between TSW and the Institute can also be refined in this light, if necessary. For the methodology of targeted controls, it is of course also important that the partners TSW, Unia and the Institute should be able to take into account the conclusions that will follow from the evaluation of anti-discrimination laws, which will be the concrete modalities of the system of self-regulation and, where appropriate, what additional legal sanctions will be desirable. As regards the evaluation of the anti-discrimination law as such, your fellow Members have already referred to the initiatives that my colleague Elke Sleurs is working on. With regard to the pro-active controls in the public sector, I would point out that the partners are not left behind. Test checks or screenings have already been set up. Over the past few months, for example, the Monitoring of the Social Laws with backup by Unia has completed a screening of a local police area of a city centre and a new investigation is ongoing in the fire department of another city.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u73	Mr President, bringing together many questions on very different issues makes it difficult to get a specific answer to one particular detail. However, Minister, I understand that there is actually no plan yet. You are waiting for the discussions or the final conclusion of the social partners, which is good in itself. I am now specifically talking about discrimination in the elderly, that is to say the 45-plussers. It is good in itself that you, together with Unia, examine the whole issue of discrimination. I assume that the problem of the 45-plussers will also occur and that you will also discuss this problem. What surprises me somewhat, however, is that for raising the age, which does not mean that people work longer, but only that the age is being increased, which sometimes results in a shift from working to being sick, all the consultations were not necessary. It was enough to press a button here in Parliament. However, when it comes to making people work longer, as well as to providing them with the possibility and setting up of legal initiatives in this context, it is very difficult to do so. That's a contradiction in itself. The government increases, on the one hand, the age, but, on the other hand, through an organisation, it must note that it has not taken any initiative towards employers for 45+ people who are out of work, for example because their company closes down.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u74	Minister, I must once again join Mrs Temmerman in this. Firstly, in terms of timing, the resolution was very clear. At the end of this year, a little more had to have happened than what is now on the table. Minister, I assume that you are doing your best, but I expected more than what has been achieved so far from the resolution that we have adopted. With all due respect, but I hope that we do not regard this issue as some kind of occupational therapy again and for the umpteenth parliamentary term in a row. I really hope that we will take effective steps forward in this respect. The agreement in the service cheque sector is nice, but people are really waiting for more than that. Sanctions are rarely taboo in this government. Just yesterday, I heard you say that the discussion on sanctions for long-term sick people is still under discussion. In this matter we are being so reluctant that it leads me to suspect that there is more going on. I hope the will is there to deal with this. It is good that we are waiting for the social partners and that we are encouraging them to work on this, but that should not rule out the possibility that legislative initiatives will come to an end, although I have never understood that. This can perfectly go together, as you have also demonstrated and just explained, with Unia and so on. However, it can all be a bit more, faster and better. We have heard Unia on the Health Committee in connection with police and fire brigades. Good progress is indeed being made, and we can only welcome that. However, I'm still a little hungry. Those who are going to earn it, after so many years and so many legislative times in which this topic has been dealt with, more than what has been on the table so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u75	The construction site is open but the landing gear is not yet visible! Minister, this remains an important issue! When we see the number of collective redundancies – you have recently reminded us of the figures – it is interesting to note that they are above all the oldest (which is a great word when we consider the age at which these situations occur!) who are the victims. It seems to me that these issues need to be analysed beyond the controls and elements that you have mentioned, including stronger and more courageous measures. On the other hand, another aspect that is not addressed but existential to me is that of training throughout the professional career. In view of the obligation to work longer, this element will be even more important tomorrow. It will be necessary to maintain occupational attractiveness, particularly through the training component.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u76	Mr President, I shall be brief despite a long reply from the minister who has presented us with little concrete evidence in relation to this form of discrimination which must be combated and which is important. As with any other discrimination, this must be addressed in a multidisciplinary manner and by different levels of government, including the federal government. I insist that you and your colleagues move forward on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u77	Minister, people of ethnic origin are part of our society. It is logical that they should have the same rights and responsibilities and therefore have the same opportunities and are not discriminated against in any way, not even on the labour market. We note that this will happen. If people get fewer opportunities because they do not have the right education, that is quite another thing. No one has a problem with that. It's the right man or woman for the right job. However, there is very often direct discrimination, sometimes somewhat disguised. That's the problem. It is people we need in our society, people who need to work, so that they can bear the costs of ageing and social security. Our social security is a very beautiful and strong model. We need to ensure that as many people as possible pull the cart off social security, and that only a limited number of people sit on the cart. We must address all the obstacles that exclude certain groups from the labour market and thus the obstacle to discrimination. It is to your credit that you were the first, two years ago, to stand up for it and plead for mystery calls. In the beginning, there was some work to be done, but in the end, Parliament followed you with the resolution. Our resolution was adopted a year and a half ago. Parliament's signal is here. Minister, you have taken steps with the social partners, especially with the sector that was already the most advanced, the interim sector, but the other sectors must follow. It is good that steps are being taken. One point remains essential. In our resolution we advocated an en-en-story, namely self-regulation and the possibility of public intervention. These are the mystery calls that you yourself have advocated within a specific framework, both for companies that continue to discriminate against nothing and for sectors that do not participate in the system of self-regulation and addressing the problems. You should actually put this on, although we all hope that it will remain a stick behind the door that should be used as little as possible. You should not wait for an evaluation, because you may need this instrument sooner or later. That is why I ask you to provide an instrument already, to prepare you. If the administration or inspection should not take place, the better. We're not gonna ask you to use that stick if you don't have to, we'd rather work with the root. However, Minister, we are not supposed to wait until it becomes clear that there are serious problems, that sectors do not want to join and that you will only say that you are going to do something. You can already create that instrument, the framework for your inspection. You yourself have said that you still have to consider whether or not it is necessary to make any changes to the law. If that doesn't have to be legal, then that's good, too. However, make provision for it and agree with the social partners that this is a stick behind the door that you will only use to the extent necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u78	Mr President, I would like to thank my fellow Members for all their comments. This is, of course, a comprehensive problem. What Mrs Lanjri is proposing, I shall proceed in a moment. I'll ask my administration to make that stick concrete behind the door. Hopefully we never need it, but the stick will be there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u79	Minister, during one of the BEL10 debates on Radio 1 a while ago, it was about workable work and a CD&V colleague of yours spoke about our green proposal to reduce labour costs for companies that promote the quality of work. He confirmed that we had discussed this proposal with you and that you had looked at it, but that practical implementation is very difficult. I am, of course, very pleased to hear that our proposals have been considered seriously. I assumed, because I know you do. However, we have not received any feedback on this matter so far. Since this was mentioned on the radio by a colleague of yours, is it possible to get a feedback from the evaluation of our proposal? If you say that practical implementation is very difficult, I wonder who you have asked about it. What was the input and where are the obstacles to implementing this policy in 2016? That this policy proposal, which looks radically different to the labour market than we are used to, is not evident in 2016, we also indicated ourselves in our informal conversation. At that time there was a relatively large consensus that an expert committee should actually be set up on this policy, similar to that of the Pension Commission. Where the Pension Commission has carried out interesting work on the future of pensions, its scope was limited to what needs to be done in the area of pensions policy. This group of experts did not look at what needs to be done in organisations and companies in order to improve work during the career so that a higher retirement age can be effectively achieved. That is why my second question: are you still in favour of setting up such an expert committee which is preparing the substance of how to make people's careers workable?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u80	Mr Willaert, we fully agree that the quality of the job determines the sustainability of the career. The polluter pays principle is commendable. However, the problem is operationalisation. How do we determine which job or company is workable? Recent research by the Antwerp Management School, of which we have taken on the paternity, has shown that meaningful work is the key to workable work. We must ensure that all employees continue to work on an intrinsic basis, because, firstly, they like to do their job, secondly, they can experience a match of their job with their interests, thirdly, they can be themselves in their job, and fourthly, they can experience that their employer stimulates them through autonomy and support. The results show that yards are still open, to put it mildly. On each of the four pillars there is a wide margin for improvement, to express it with caution. Indeed, on each pillar, a third of the respondents scored negative. It would be simplistic, however, to think unilaterally of measures that will affect one pillar in order to increase the sense of meaning. This is an en-en-story, in which employees and employers are engaged together. In other words, we must no longer simply talk about the hardware but also about the software of the employment relationship, in order to express it nicely. For the government it is important to encourage and facilitate certain parties to make real work of this and not to lose sight of the core of what brings them together, meaningful work, now and in the future. However, we do not believe that this can be solved simply by a social security discount. We are more in favour of using an organizational can. By giving teamwork and more responsibilities to the employees, organisations become more performant and manoeuvrable. This increases the involvement and motivation of employees. Their job is usually more varied, and they feel more involved in the results to be achieved. An expert committee doesn't seem to be on the table anymore. We have brought experts together through round tables and we have also met several individual experts in the preparation of our draft law Werkbaar Wendbaar Werk. The recent scientific research by Professor Lode Godderis and Professor Ans De Vos have also directed us. I believe that we can continue along this path. You know, Mrs Willaert, that we are always open to ideas. We will be very happy to take it with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u81	Mr Minister, as with the previous question, I do not think that one should rule out the other. It could be an en-en-story. Organisations and companies can be encouraged and inspired to offer workable work. We have put forward a number of proposals, but you can also play a stimulating role in setting out a number of objectives, for example, on the elimination of heavy jobs in our work organisation or by engaging you to stop supporting social agreements if there are no progress on workable work. It's not just about the hardware, because the software is so important to give people a nice job that they can last a long time. I am therefore convinced that you can include various proposals and ideas in an en-en-story. You yourself have launched a proposal on workable and manoeuvrable work, on which we will shortly be discussing in detail in this committee, or at least that is the intention. However, your proposal will not contain some things which are nevertheless very interesting. That is why I hope that you will take initiatives later in this legislative period to provide a number of incentives from the government, to set up chalklines and to provide a framework as an inspiration and catalyst for the transition to truly workable work. You yourself say that there is still a great deal of margin in our organisations in this area. There are good examples abroad that we can still learn a lot from. I therefore hope that you will take some further initiatives on top of the workable/feasible work. With regard to your proposal, I also hope that some things will not be approved, but that is for another discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u82	Mrs Willaert, put your question. 14331 in a written question?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u83	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u84	Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht Mrs Fonck's 14063 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u85	Minister, I am very grateful to Mr Klaps and my other colleague for asking you pertinent questions about the status of the port labour law. These were weak questions, but you gave a strong answer. I would point out that the law on port work of 1972 remains essentially unchanged. Within the port areas, port labour may only be carried out by authorised port workers. That is how I understand you, and I follow you in it. This also means, of course, that we should be able to follow up and possibly sanction it, because that is a law that belongs to the domain of social criminal law. You have replied to previous written questions as follows. The infringement of the provisions of the Law of Major and its implementing acts shall be detected, detected and punished in accordance with the Social Criminal Code. That's a strong statement. I'm with you. I'm with you. I'm with you. Colleagues, the people who know the sector know that it is often not going so fast. Some call that corporatism and know that it is resolved internally, according to the rules of the so-called codex. Those rules are partly determined by the Social Criminal Code, partly by collective agreements and partly by internal agreements. If there are genuinely flagrant infringements, the social inspectors, who, as you ask in reply to one of my previous questions, have the powers referred to in Articles 23 to 39, under the Social Criminal Code, when they act of their own motion or on request in the context of their mandate for information, mediation and monitoring of compliance with the provisions of this law and its implementing provisions, shall be called upon to do so. The number of times this has to be done is very exceptional. You have replied to my previous written questions. In the period 2011 to 2015, only 16 files were dealt with in the port areas, namely 5 in Bruges, 4 in Ghent, 3 in Antwerp and 4 on the transport of goods to and from the port area. A total of 28 infringements were detected. But then there is the port area of Brussels. My fellow Members will perhaps frown on the eyebrows, but the port area of Brussels is also covered by the law on port labour, because the port area of Brussels is a sea port, thanks to the large Zeekana flowing through your former domain of competence, Minister. It is only in Brussels that this law is applied badly or not. I'm contacted, your services are contacted by port workers, authorized dock workers, employed in a recognized port area, in the recognized seaport that Brussels is. They say that they find that a number of firms use non-approved port workers, a number of important employers, and leave them on the sidelines. Mr Minister, you probably know the file and certainly your services know it, because these people regularly write to you about it. I'm not going to mention the firm here because that would violate the privacy of a number of people. It's about a very large waste processing plant. However, no action was taken in this regard. Why didn't they act? Do you have any reason not to treat Brussels like the other port areas that are still being treated under the Major Act?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u86	Mr President, Mr Penris, I would like to make it very clear that the Inspection of the Social Laws of my department operates entirely autonomously. It follows the guidance which you have also referred to in the Social Criminal Code and the principles laid down in Convention No. 81 on labour inspection by the International Labour Organization. The inspection cannot take precedence over the law, nor can it ignore it. This applies to the port labour law as well as to all other laws for which inspection is entrusted. The inspection must not ignore the port labour law as long as it exists. It is clear, however, that, bearing in mind the procedure for the European Commission's default procedure which has not yet been completed, this inspection is being carried out with caution. Moreover, a legal interpretation dispute cannot be a sufficient reason to impose any prohibition on the inspection to carry out its inspection work, especially since the inspection work does not necessarily have to be limited to the merely representative application of the law to port work. In early July 2016, an investigation was carried out by my inspection service in the port of Antwerp. A report was forwarded to the Brussels Labour Auditor to report the infringements found. On Friday 14 October 2016, the Brussels Inspection Service re-examined the port of Brussels in which six companies were controlled. All findings were transferred to the competent judicial authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u87	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I will now have to inform the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u88	Minister, last July was declared the bankruptcy of the DOD textile sales chain, which employed more than 200 people, mainly female workers, in the Brussels region. The stakes in terms of jobs are perhaps even higher than in other regions, especially for women. A few days earlier, the boss of DOD had created a new company with a capital of 700,000 euros and hired about 20 workers. This is a strange way of acting which may suggest that the employer has thus tried to escape some of its legal obligations vis-à-vis the staff. At the end of September, 78 laid-off workers initiated legal proceedings to demand the application of the Renault law, which they consider to have been violated, and to denounce the abusive nature of the dismissals. They are also surprised that the search for a buyer has not been the subject of wider publicity. Mr Minister for Employment, in the context we know, it seems to me that you have to pay attention to this issue. What information do you have about this bankruptcy and the situation of laid-off workers? What support is provided by the Employment SPF to dismissed staff members with regard to legal support and retraining? Is an investigation conducted within or with the help of your services to determine whether the dismissals can be considered unfair and whether the Renault procedure should have applied? If so, who is conducting this investigation? What's the status? What are the first conclusions? What are the possibilities for workers to avail themselves of this particularly damaging situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u89	Mr Gilkinet, in response to your question, I have the honour to inform you that the Renault law is not applicable when a collective dismissal takes place in the context of bankruptcy proceedings, in accordance with its Article 65. Furthermore, under Article 46 of the Bankruptcy Act of 8 August 1997, the trustee is not bound by the obligations of information and consultation laid down in collective agreement No 24 of 2 October 1975 concerning the procedure for informing and consulting workers' representatives on collective redundancies and by the Royal Decree of 24 May 1976 on collective redundancies. This explains why neither I nor my department were officially informed of the bankruptcy of the company DOD. I therefore have no information on this subject. As regards the possibility of retraining for laid-off workers, I have no competence as Federal Minister for Employment. These are the responsibility of the Regions. Finally, I turn to the possibilities of recourse for the workers concerned. The Act of 26 June 2002 on company closures provides that, subject to certain conditions and to certain limits, the company closure fund may be required to act as a guarantee if the employer fails to fulfil its obligations when the company closes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u90	Minister, my question was also to inform you and to provoke a reaction. It was tabled on October 14, and it is November 23rd. You're telling me you're not informed of anything. You had ample time to inform yourself and worry about the destruction of jobs. Our government, our state, we all need to be concerned about creating jobs, but where we can save jobs, we can also act. I understand that the Regions have a share of responsibility, of course. The question is also raised. But in the face of such cases, workers would like to feel support from the Federal Employment Administration and the Federal Minister for Employment. You referred to the Renault law. We are in the middle of a debate to make it evolve. Our group has tabled bills and participated, together with my colleague Evita Willaert, in the debate last week on the subject in the same committee. Some elements are to be taken into account in the event of bankruptcy. Should we not have a procedure for protecting and informing workers? This is one of the additional chapters of future changes in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u91	Minister, more and more companies, particularly in the banking and telecommunications sectors, are resorting to the practice of offshoring. The latter involves transferring locally insured missions to less costly emerging countries with lower labour costs, both in terms of wages and social security contributions, with the result that social protection systems are obviously far lower than ours. These companies, mainly active in the high-tech field, thus drastically reduce their wage costs, resulting in the destruction of employment in our country. The ING file recently illustrated this phenomenon. While our country is facing a combination of job destruction at the moment, it seems to me essential that the federal authorities really take up the problem of offshoring. Do you have accurate statistics on job losses in Belgium related to offshoring for the past four years? Can you detail them by sector, particularly in the telecommunications or banking sectors? What are the actions taken by the Employment FPS in relation to this phenomenon? Is there at least one unit within the Employment FPS responsible for observing and objecting to this phenomenon and any equivalent phenomenon leading to the destruction of jobs? Do you intend to legislate against this phenomenon of social dumping and to empower the employers concerned? Do you intend to make any proposals in this regard? In what form? How long?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u92	My services do not have statistics on offshoring. In the past, the Federal Office of the Plan has conducted a number of studies to attempt to identify the effects indirectly, but the shifts in employment, especially when they occur across borders, are difficult to deduce. These are the existing statistical sources. Secondly, the Employment FPS has not taken any specific action in this area. Thirdly, apart from the regular publication of employment statistics, the SPF does not carry out any analysis of the economic factors behind the destruction or creation of employment. Fourthly, subcontracting tasks in Belgium or abroad can hardly be described as social dumping, since the rules in force in the country where the work is carried out are complied with and comply with international agreements, as defined by the ILO. You have to be careful about it. Our own labour market is characterized by challenges in subcontracting, especially since it often involves qualified and motivated employees. The federal government's policy on wage moderation and burden reduction must specifically avoid this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u93	Mr President, Mr Minister, as was the case in your previous answer, I see a form of fatalism that displeases me. This is a worrying phenomenon which leads to many job losses in our country. This should cause you to worry in your capacity as Minister of Employment. The first of the conditions to combat a phenomenon is to know it. The Employment FPS should therefore, in my view, be attentive to the issue. It is also necessary to try to identify ways of avoiding the transfer of jobs to countries that have the right to have economic activities, but where social security systems are very different from ours and where, sometimes, workers are not respected. The aim is to avoid social dumping. I therefore hope that, in addition to the issues of competitiveness, wages and the reduction of contributions of all kinds for employers, you, as Minister for Employment, are also thinking about defensive mechanisms that can prevent this kind of truly disturbing relocation and which affect thousands of families in our country, which I am sorry for. I hope that this is also your case and that you will one day act to combat this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u94	Minister, recently, a new note would have appeared in the ONEM concerning the fractions of time for people wishing to reduce their working time. For example, teachers who take 24 periods and wish to interrupt 1/5th of their career now have to stop 4 periods instead of 5, as before. The note states: "If the full-time function is 24 hours, at least 20/24 periods (19.2 rounded to the upper unit) must be allowed". However, for career breaks in education at the level of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, 1/5th time of a charge of 24 periods is equal to 5 periods and not to 4 periods, as the ONEM would mention. Minister, do you confirm such a change in the NEBM rules? Is it possible that the rules of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation at the level of education are not the same as those of the ONEM? Is there not a lack of consultation? It would appear that this information applies to all types of leave of the ONEM. Can you confirm that? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u95	Mr Clarinval, the regulation of career interruption in the French-language education sector is divided between the provisions laid down by the federal authority concerning the granting of interruption allowances and those laid down by the Wallonia-Brussels Federation with regard to the right to full or partial interruption of benefits within the PMS schools and centres. The federal provisions relating to the granting of interruption allowances and those of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation relating to the right to partial interruption require, on both sides, teaching staff members to pay a corresponding charge, as the case may be, at least 4/5th or 3/4th time or half a full-time post, after having reduced their benefits. The provisions of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation provide that the benefits remaining to be provided after the reduction of benefits must always be rounded to one hour/period or to a complete lesson. Consequently, when an educational staff member is employed in a full-time position of 24 hours a week and wishes to reduce his or her benefits by a fifth, the charge to 4/5th is also 19.2 hours. According to the regulations of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, the remaining services must always be rounded up. Thus, the person concerned will have to pay 20 hours per week in order to be compensated. If the benefits were rounded to the lower unit (19 hours/week), the employee would receive less than a 4/5th of the full charge. In this case, the services of the ONEM are obliged to refuse the granting of interruption allowances. It is clear from the above that this is not an amendment to the provisions in force, but a strict application of those provisions. In view of the numerous errors in requests for partial interruption of a fifth by staff members of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation PMS schools and centres, the services of the ONEM took the initiative to recall the provisions in force. To this end, on 9 May 2016, a letter was sent to the General Education Administration of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation asking it to take these principles into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u96	Minister, thank you. You confirm the information that came to me. I take note of the fact that ONEM notified the Wallonia-Brussels Federation on 9 May. Obviously, not all teachers are aware of this and there may be bad surprises. To what extent should teachers not be informed directly? Is this possible for the ONEM? Because of this rounding now more strictly applied than before, unattractive teachers may have problems. I know at least two.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u97	It's not normally possible, but I'll think about it. Perhaps it would be sufficient to return the letter of May 9th? It's up to the general administration to spread the message.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u98	You are accused of having taken measures that are detrimental to French-speaking teachers. It's a friend's advice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u99	Thanks for the advice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u100	Minister, at the end of October, we learned that the management of LSG Sky Chefs Belgium, which specializes in air catering, intended to carry out a collective dismissal of 130 out of nearly 600 workers. According to the Belgian subsidiary of this group, the world leader in aircraft services, the new trend of airlines to stop automatically providing meals on board has led to a decline in demand for the company. This is a new social drama for Belgium, as this restructuring announcement will affect Brussels, Flemish and Walloon workers. However, it appears – and this is likely to be the subject of questions in the collective redundancies procedure – that LSG has been selling at a loss for several years, but above all has to deal with a competitor who does not comply with the collective agreements in force for this type of activity. According to the unions, your department's collective relations department bears a share of responsibility for this unfair competition. Indeed, even if the officers in this department do their job well, they are clearly overwhelmed by the task. However, this service is very important for companies, as it allows for fair competition between them, by controlling them and checking whether the companies operating attractive prices do not harm their competitors by resorting to a business practice contrary to the law. Moreover, in Brussels there are not enough officials or inspectors. In view of the lack of staff, the collective relations department, which should give a diagnosis of a company one week after the inspection, fails to do so. As a result, LSG, which sells at a loss, cannot cope with a competitor who does not comply with the collective agreements in force. This seems to me to be relatively serious and worrying. Minister, could you give us an overview of your department's collective relations department? How is it that the staff of the service are overwhelmed? Is there enough for his task? Why can't officials in this department provide a timely diagnosis of the companies involved? Is this because of the cruel shortage of staff? Have you ever considered hiring new recruits for the service? If you don't, shouldn't you think about it? With respect to LSG layoffs, are you in talks with management? On the other hand, from the moment this company is identified as not complying with the collective agreements in force, would you not take steps to put an end to this unfair competition suffered by LSG?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u101	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Massin, your questions must be somewhat nuanced. It seems to me useful to recall that, in the field, checks on the application of legal, regulatory or conventional standards are carried out mainly by the Directorate-General for the Control of Social Laws of our SPF. As regards the aspects of Belgian social security coverage, by the Social Inspectorate and ONSS, these inspections cooperate effectively in the fight against social fraud and social dumping. These are not tasks assigned to the Directorate-General for Collective Labour Relations, whose role is more normative. You are aware that the government decided on 10 November to reform the inspection services and the SIRS in order to further improve the effectiveness of the inspection services in terms of information, coaching and law enforcement. An integration of the Social Inspectorate into the ONSS will be implemented as early as 2017. In addition, 100 inspectors must be recruited for the various inspection services, but the first stage will have to organise, by 1 July 2017, the voluntary mobility of 40 inspectors from the Social Inspectorate to the other inspection services by taking advantage of the latter's expertise to meet specific needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u102	Minister, thank you for correcting my remarks. There was an orientation problem. This morning we had the presentation by your Secretary of State of this project decided by the government. Here we are at the operational level. There is a situation that would probably save jobs. Therefore, could not instructions be given to go to the field, to carry out the necessary checks and to ask the company setting up this unfair competition to put an end to it? This could be useful in the restructuring of LSG.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u103	Mr President, Minister, the Neutral Union of Independents (NSI) is calling for flexi-jobs for butchers, bakers and other small retail businesses. The end-of-year celebrations are still far away, but many butchers, to name but a few, have already begun preparations and are looking for collaborators who could help them temporarily at the end of December. Few people are asking, preferring to turn to Horeca, a sector in which the flexi-job system allows them to earn more. The SNI insists that flexi-jobs for butchers, bakers and other small businesses should no longer be waiting because they are now looking for additional staff. The government would have indicated that it wanted to evaluate the flexi-jobs that are going on this month to see if an extension is needed in other sectors. But it is likely that time will be too short for these small businesses to hire temporary staff. Minister, can you tell me if the evaluation of flexi-jobs has already begun? Is it possible to extend this system, particularly for butcher-contractors whose services are comparable to those found in Horeca in particular? Can you explain the steps that will be taken with respect to this specific request?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, flexi-jobs in Horeca were introduced at the end of last year in order to meet a concrete demand from this sector, following the introduction of the white box. It has been explicitly decided, as the scope of the law shows, to introduce this measure only in the Horeca sector. This is a specific support measure which allows for flexible responses to the need for additional support under unforeseeable and exceptional conditions. Eligible workers are only workers employed at least 4/5 times with another employer. Therefore, the measure does not necessarily address potential demands for flexibility from other sectors. An extension of flexi-jobs to other sectors is therefore, at the moment, out of question. In addition, the trade unions filed an application for annulment of this measure with the Constitutional Court. In this context, it does not seem to me right now to start a discussion on the possible extension of this measure to other sectors. In any case, this measure will have to be assessed on the merits, on the basis of concrete figures, before such an informed debate can be conducted. Based on these figures, it will be necessary to assess the effects of the introduction of flexi-jobs on the full-time equivalent employment rate in the horeca sector and on social and fiscal incomes. Current ONSS figures do show a large number of flexi-jobs reports. However, it is often a matter of a few hours' or a single day's contracts. This number therefore does not correspond to the full-time equivalent employment rate of 836 in the first quarter. Moreover, the cause is uncertain. In this context, it is possible that the fact that the introduction of the caisse blanche many jobs – which would be a good thing – hides at the same time the fact that regular jobs or casual work have been transformed into flexi-jobs. A thorough assessment on the basis of a more detailed study is therefore necessary in order to be able to accurately assess the consequences of the introduction of flexi-jobs. Such an evaluation is not yet available.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u105	Thank you, Minister. I take note of your very clear answer, which is out of the question of extending the flexi-jobs system at the moment. I take note of that. I'm a little sorry. However, I agree with your analysis that an in-depth evaluation is necessary to be able to objectiveize opinions that may be more or less positive. Do you already know the time frame for this evaluation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u106	I'll check and set a date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u107	All right. You also say that flexi-jobs were created to compensate the white box. I agree, but I see that today there are still many restaurants that do not have a white box. This is really unfair competition. It is necessary to be more dynamic about the installation of these white boxes in the sector. From the moment you set up rules, with incentives, everyone must participate in them in the same way. I urge you to ensure that these white cases are introduced more quickly for recalcitrants.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u108	Mr President, I think we can conclude this long afternoon with a comprehensive list of questions in beauty with a theme with which the Minister came into contact more often in a previous capacity. We are talking here about the Sea Fishermen's Fund, which is being fed up by the farm levy. Instead of transferring this money to social security, it is to a large extent transferred to a separate fund. The two main activities of this fund are, on the one hand, the financing of clothes for fishermen and, on the other hand, the transport of the crew of fishing vessels to the port of departure. We find a trend whereby our fish are landed in Dutch ports. The fishermen concerned must be returned to our ports. It is therefore possible to ask questions about the purpose of this fund and whether it is still being used as it should be at the moment. I therefore have a number of questions. I had actually asked my questions to the Secretary of State responsible for the North Sea, but they were forwarded to you, Minister. I suspect there are internal reasons for this. I believe that this will make no difference in terms of the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u109	I don't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u110	My questions are mainly about the Sea Fishermen's Fund. Is what happens there normal practice? Is it the intention to use these resources for the transport of fishermen on the one hand and for the purchase of clothes on the other? Personally, I am thinking, for example, of retirement. This is still about public funds. Is the law on public procurement applicable to this fund and to contracts concluded with third parties? Does anyone have an overview of what happens to the funds of the fund? Is the accounts audited by any body or body? In short, I have a lot of questions about the operation of the Maritime Fisheries Fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u111	I can tell. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the resources of the farm levy are allocated under the Income Tax Code to the Fund for the Security of Life of Sea Fishing. The resources available to a fund for the security of living must be used in accordance with the law on the security of living funds of 7 January 1958. This law states that the funds can be used to finance, allocate and distribute social benefits to certain persons, secondly to finance and organize vocational training for workers and young people, and thirdly to finance and ensure the safety and health of workers in general. The law is very clear about that. The law on the funds for the security of life also regulates the control. A company auditor shall have an unlimited right of supervision and examination of all the accounting operations of the fund. Once a year, he also reports to the Joint Committee. In the case of the Sea Fisheries Fund, a government commissioner has also been appointed since 2014. He shall exercise control over the management and use of the federal public funds paid by employers to the Maritime Fisheries Fund under Article 275 of the Income Tax Code. The Act of 3 May 2003 regulating the employment contract for sea fishing services and improving the social status of sea fishing provides for the right of the seafarer to be returned to his place of residence at the expense of the shipowner of the fishing vessel. This right includes the cost of transport, accommodation and nutrition. Pursuant to Article 58 of the same law, a collective agreement may provide that the sustenance fund shall bear these obligations. Fourthly, the Public Procurement Act applies to all federal services financed by public funds. Fifthly, the expenditure on the social benefits of the previous year is broken down into the annual report of the Fund for Security of Life approved by the Fund's Management Board and submitted to the Registry of the FOD WASO. In concrete terms, around 1.6 % is devoted to protective clothing, 10% to crew transport and 2% to the sectoral pension plan. The fund shall not conclude contracts with third parties with the exception of the sectoral pension plan. It shall be the shipowner who submits the costs to the Fund for Security of Life.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u112	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will look at the annual report of that fund again, because there is a lot of criticism in the midst of sea fishermen and shipowners. You know that competition is also playing with the Netherlands and that everything is being dragged around. However, this is also a point that we must follow up closely. I am already very pleased to hear that there has been a government commissioner at the table since 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic541x.u113	Thank you, Minister, for coming. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your numerous presence.
