ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 December 2016, I propose that the draft law amending Articles 335 and 335ter of the Civil Code on the method of handing over names to the child, Nos 2220/1 to 4, be entered on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 December 2016, I propose that you place on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the bill amending articles 335 and 335ter of the Civil Code relating to the method of transmission of the name to the child, Nos. 2220/1 to 4. I also propose that the following appointments be entered on the agenda of tomorrow afternoon's plenary session: - the appointment of non-notaries of the Notarial Appointment Committees (No. 2230) - the nomination of candidates for a mandate of member of the Federal Audit and Evaluation Committee on the application of the law of 28 May 2002 on euthanasia (No. 2231) - the nomination of candidates for a mandate of a member of the National Evaluation Committee on the application of the legislation on the termination of pregnancy (No. 2232) I also propose that you include the following appointments on the agenda of tomorrow afternoon's plenary session: - the appointment of the actual non-notary members of the Commissions of Appointment for the Notariat (No. 2230) - the nomination of candidates for a term of office as a member of the Federal Commission for Monitoring and Evaluation of the Application of the Act of 28 May 2002 on euthanasia (No. 2231) - the submission of candidates for a term of office as a member of the National Evaluation Commission to assess the application of the provisions on termination of pregnancy (No 2232) Mrs Julie Fernandez Fernandez draws her interview (No. 192) and the interplay of Mr Filip Dewinter (No. 193) shall be sent to committee. Ms. Julie Fernandez Fernandez withdrew her inquiry (No. 192) and Mr. Filip Dewinter's inquiry (No. 193) was referred to committee. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u3	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Philippe Goffin, Gilles Foret, Emmanuel Burton, Benoît Piedboeuf, Vincent Scourneau, Olivier Chastel.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u4	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Luk Van Biesen, rapporteur, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u5	Mr. Speaker, we are about to vote on this bill that will expand the tax shelter mechanism. This project has shown its interest and effectiveness in supporting the production and creation of audio-visual works, more precisely in the film sector. The objective here is to be able to extend it to the performing arts. We welcome this extension. Indeed, we believe that it is important to be able to irrigate the cultural sector through private financing, which would then find support through taxation. Of course, we recall that, as far as we are concerned, culture must first be financed by public policies and in a completely autonomous way. It is a choice of society to finance culture. It is essential to be able to provide sufficient resources for cultural policies. I will not teach you anything: it is now and for some time already a competence of the federated entities. If we can support this approach, it goes without saying that we will remain attentive to budgetary impacts. It must be possible to do so with some budgetary control. It will therefore be important to monitor the measure in its implementation. It is also necessary, of course, to avoid too much bureaucracy but, at the same time, with sufficient and appropriate formalism, to ensure that support goes where it is necessary and, above all, in accordance with the legal prescriptions. Care should be taken not to start financing projects that should not be funded. We have asked you a number of questions, Mr Minister, in the Finance Committee, which you have answered. In short, all this seems to us to be going in the right direction. We will therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of this debate, like my colleague Laaouej, who has just spoken, I would like to welcome the government's initiative for this bill, which is a real step forward for my group. This project aims to extend the tax shelter mechanism to the performing arts as early as 2017. This is an issue that my group has been working on for a long time and on which we had a real will to move forward. A few months ago, a bill from the MR group to that effect had been tabled. On behalf of my group, I therefore want to express our satisfaction with this positive mechanism for the world of culture. Even today, unfortunately, cultural enterprises often face difficulties in terms of their revenue, particularly as a result of the reduction in Community subsidies. These difficulties and the chronic investment deficit have for too long weakened structures and undermined the development of cultural entrepreneurship. Therefore, we are pleased that the federal government is addressing this issue with a concrete tax incentive that will allow businesses to invest new resources in the performing arts. This extension is fairly broad in terms of recipients. It covers original stage productions, which include theatrical, circus, street theatre, opera, classical music, dance or cabaret productions, musical comedy, ballet and the production of a total performance in which the script, theatrical text, governance or scenography are new or relate to reinterpretation. This broad category of production therefore provides considerable room for manoeuvre in this sector. Investments in this area will benefit from a tax exemption of up to 50%, capped at €750,000, of taxable reserved profits. It is therefore not a gadget but a strong mechanism that is being put in place and that will significantly encourage investment in this area. Mr. Laaouej referred to it. In this way, this government intends to breathe new life into our stage production. It is important to stress this because the objective of the text is also to support local works, the first performance to take place in Belgium or in another State of the European Economic Area. Other positive aspects of this new mechanism also deserve to be highlighted. First of all, it allows the ASBLs, central in cultural production, to finance themselves via this tax shelter. This mechanism is intended to be flexible, but also transparent in terms of expenditure. As noted in the explanatory memorandum, both the expenses incurred by the principal producer and those incurred by the co-producers are eligible as eligible expenses. In concrete terms, this will allow for the establishment of double structures, with the creation of an ad hoc production company, which is eligible for this purpose, alongside the basic entity. This may be useful in that many productions are produced by ASBLs who do not have an interest in becoming corporations or being subject to corporate tax. Finally, the government has ensured that the spending period provisions correspond to the reality of the field – this is important – and to the production of stage works. Thus, Belgian expenditure will have to be made within a period ending no more than 24 months after the signature of the framework agreement and no later than one month after the first of the stage work. This is a balanced measure that gives significant flexibility in production. After the tax shelter for cinematographic works put in place more than ten years ago under the leadership of Minister Reynders, this new instrument and the mechanisms that are planned demonstrate our group's ambition for the development of culture which is and must remain a true vector of education, of the emancipation of creations, but also of exchanges in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u7	Mr President, I would like to begin my speech by recalling the interest of ecologists in culture in general, in the performing arts in particular and, more particularly, in their most popular declinations. These are obvious social bonding tools. This is part of our cultural identity. In doing so, as I said in committee, we will support this text, since, in the case of cinema, the tax shelter has shown its interest on both sides of the linguistic border. This came to light in a notable way when we held hearings in the Finance Committee under the previous legislature, bringing together Flemish creators – I think Stijn Coninx – and Francophones – I can quote the Dardenne brothers or Jaco Van Dormael. Unlike other tax systems that allow deductions, the tax shelter allows a real leverage effect here. The tax shelter helps to finance a real cultural activity, which also has economic variations, with the creation of jobs and direct and indirect activities, especially in the accompaniment, as for example in the horeca sector. We therefore welcome this initiative and will sanction it with a positive vote earlier. Nevertheless, I would like to point out three limitations to the exercise, to which we will have to pay attention. The first limitation was mentioned: the competence to finance culture belongs first and foremost to the Communities. On the one hand, they must be provided with sufficient resources to enable them to carry out their important mission in the fields of education, culture and childcare. It is one of the federal government's responsibilities to properly collect the tax, since, through the financing laws, federated entities benefit from means or not. They must also, internally, make choices in favour of culture for all. It is within their parliament, the Parliament of the Wallonia-Brussels federation and the Flemish Parliament, that these debates must take place. The second element to be considered is the cost of the measure. Like any tax measure, its cost must be controlled. Tax policies have been seen to derail and cost a lot of money. Here we have the example of the tax shelter cinema; it seems that the costs are controlled and that activities are developing on this basis, generating a return effect that can be measured. The example is therefore positive, but it will be necessary to be vigilant in the future. As we must be vigilant about this third point: the monitoring and evaluation of the law. In the context of the tax shelter on cinema, it was seen that some investors were using loopholes, less precise elements in the law, and that there were drifts in the use of the law, which could create additional costs and questionable montages. We carried out this evaluation work in the Finance Committee under the previous legislature. It led to an amendment to the law on the tax shelter cinema. I ask you, as soon as this law is launched, to be attentive to potential abuses and to be able to correct what needs to be. Mr Minister, there is, however, one question on which I would like to hear you more specifically than in committee: the possibility of subsidising certain festivals at the start of this new law on cultural tax shelter. I am thinking of festivals that are not only places of production of sometimes expensively paid artists but actually have a work of cultural creation and production, like "Esperanzah!", festival which takes place at the beginning of August in Floreffe, like "Namur en Mai" or Chassepierre, which are two festivals of street arts, one in town, the other on board Semois, in a bucolic setting, and which actually do an interesting job that deserves direct support from the Communities. Why couldn't they have access to this tax shelter system? In response to the question you were asked about whether or not festivals could be included under this new legislation, you had an answer that was not univocal. You stated, I quote the Commission's report, that: "The question of whether a festival can be considered is appropriate for consideration on a case-by-case basis". Okay, but according to what criteria? This discussion should be used to provide more precise criteria. This cannot be done at the head of the client. Festivals must know a priori whether they are eligible for the tax shelter. I cannot content myself with this answer on a case-by-case basis. You must explain to Parliament the criteria that will be used. A criterion can of course be the clean cultural production, the amount of the stamps given to artists (reasonable or not), the maintenance of accessibility or if these are genuine sustainable festivals, which give access to free drinking water and which are particularly sensitive to waste management or other, which are the three festivals I mentioned earlier. I would like to take advantage of this debate in plenary to allow you, Minister, to be more specific about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u8	Thank you, Mr Gilkinet. I have no other speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u9	Mr. Speaker, first of all, I am pleased that this bill has a large majority. I will, of course, be careful to ensure that the distribution of authority is respected, as well as with regard to the installation of control mechanisms, so as to avoid abuses. As far as festivals are concerned, this will be studied on a case-by-case basis. As the bill has already been developed in consultation with the Communities, more specific criteria for festivals will be developed. It will be done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u10	Minister, I take note of your answer to the specific question of the eligibility of festivals for this new mechanism. I welcome the fact that you wanted to involve the Communities in the definition of eligibility criteria. You want to do it in a short time. I will ask you again, quickly, about the matter to make sure. I regret, however, that you have not been able to provide further details at this stage. You can reply that if you want to consult the Communities, it is not to decide the criteria to be applied alone. So I give you my credit. I myself mentioned eligibility criteria related to accessibility, in particular the need to position oneself in a cultural approach and not only in cultural dissemination. That is the meaning of this law. I hope that you will be able to reach an agreement soon. In this way, the festival concerned will be able to position itself and find new funding for its activities which sometimes lack it, despite the quality of what is produced and disseminated.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u11	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u12	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2205/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2205/3) The draft law contains 8 articles. The bill has 8 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u13	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u14	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u15	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u16	Mr President, it was not on this project that I wanted to intervene, but can you note that I would like to speak about the tax credit for asylum seekers? Excuse me, I was waiting for the discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u17	The same is true of you, Mr Van Hees! Is anyone else asking for the floor? (No) Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u18	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2198/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2198/3) The draft law contains 5 articles. The bill has five articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u19	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u20	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Georges Gilkinet, referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u21	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2207/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2207/4) The draft law contains 97 articles. The bill has 97 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u22	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u23	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Roel Deseyn, Franky Demon, Nahima Lanjri, Vincent Van Peteghem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u24	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Luk Van Biesen, rapporteur, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u25	Mr President, Mr Minister, 4 million euros, that is the gain you will gain in order to distort the Constitution and distort the fundamental principles of our tax system. 4 million euros is the price, which is what a violation of the Constitution costs. Why? To introduce a discriminatory provision that will explicitly target a very particular category of the population: asylum seekers. Very often, when the Income Tax Code is amended to address specific situations, it is to provide benefits. Here, you are submitting a bill that will have the effect of withdrawing a right to the class of population that I have just mentioned, namely, the tax credit for the presence of dependent children. All this does not honor you. One would almost come to wonder whether the EUR 4 million that you are about to recover will not be used to pay Mr Franken's periodic penalty payments, since in the end, we are again in this subject: asylum seekers, refugees, people who have fled from war scenes and do not come to us for pleasure, who are uprooted, who, therefore, are already in a precarious situation, waiting for an administrative decision that takes too long to arrive – and this is not their fault. In the meantime, while these people must be considered residents in Belgium, even if it is precarious and pending confirmation, you will turn them into second-rate taxpayers, if I may say so. Why do you violate the Constitution and why do you twist the tax system? You are twisting the Consitution because - the Council of State explains it very well - you are not sufficiently justifying the difference in treatment you have given them. The Constitution explains to you that from the moment when a different treatment is given to a part of the population, this decision must be justified in the light of an objective of general interest and must be proportionate. You remain in demand to provide this justification. This will open an appeal to the Constitutional Court. The Council of State is particularly explicit in this regard. Why is this a derogation from the overall coherence of our tax system? Because the seat of the subject matter of Article 2 of the Income Tax Code determines how a person is linked to the Belgian tax territory. This is the concept of a Kingdom resident. Let me quote again from the above article: "By inhabitant of the Kingdom, one means: (a) natural persons who have established in Belgium their domicile or the seat of their wealth (...)". The Court of Cassation recalls that the concept of "tax domicile" must be distinguished from that of "civil domicile" and that there is, by presumption, a tax domicile from the moment someone is entered in the population register, but that registration – in the ordinary register or in the waiting register – is not a necessary condition for having a tax domicile in Belgium. Indeed, the Court of Cassation recalls that this is a question of fact. I quote: "In the sense of article 3 of the Income Tax Code, tax domicile is a concept of fact necessarily characterized by a certain permanence or continuity. The Ghent Court of Appeal also had the opportunity to address the issue by stating: "regardless of the civil domicile and nationality and which is established and affirmed by a set of facts and circumstances, in particular the actual place of residence and, more specifically, the place where the household is established". So what is the core of the tax domicile concept? It is the idea of a place of life, with a certain permanence or continuity. This is where you live and meet people, where you go shopping and where you put your kids at school. That's where you're working. In other words, the concept of tax domicile, a concept of fact, is understood in the light of the circumstances, but the idea of a home and the installation of a household are always found. The asylum seekers who are in your collimator, since you will take away a right from them, live and live in Belgium. As such, they must be considered Kingdomers. What are you doing in this bill? You are developing a restrictive approach to the concept of Kingdom dweller. You do it because you have a moral posture. This moral position considers that an asylum-seeker should not have the same rights as everyone else. You will say that it must be understood that an asylum seeker is not working. Not working, he has no professional income and therefore there is no reason to grant him the tax credit. Except that the dependent children's tax credit is not just for people who work! It is aimed at taxpayers in general. As long as you have dependent children, you are entitled to them. The concept of a taxpayer must therefore be decoupled from the concept of a taxpayer benefiting from professional income. You say that a claimant is never a taxpayer because he or she has no professional income and he or she lives on what is given to him or her. It is housed, it receives food vouchers or a food package. Finally, he doesn't have any income. Therefore, it cannot be a fully-fledged taxpayer. Except that an asylum seeker who has a financial tax and if he finds someone who sponsors him, who gives him a little money to improve his ordinary and that with that money he consumes and buys products, he will pay indirect taxation. This means that you can't start from the principle and you can't usually say that a claimant is never a taxpayer. An asylum application may be a taxpayer. In other words, when you develop a more general view, you see that the argument that we're not going to give it a tax advantage because it's not a taxpayer is not on the road. This is a number of factors which, I believe, sufficiently demonstrate that the measure you are taking, which is a discriminatory measure which I have reminded you is not honouring you, is a measure which does not hold the road in terms of fundamental principles both of the Constitution and of our general tax system and the way in which one is subjecting, to which one connects an individual, a person to a tax territory. I can even go much further, and I have taken this example in our discussions in the Finance Committee. When I read the Income Tax Code, I mentioned the fact that someone could be linked to a tax territory by the tax domicile, which, I repeat, is different from the civil domicile. The tax domicile is wider than the civil domicile. But also if the person concerned has the seat of his fortune on Belgian territory. This means that a person who does not live in Belgium on a daily basis and who does not have a civil or tax domicile in Belgium but has the seat of his or her fortune in Belgium, i.e. who manages his or her business from Belgium, knowing that such management can be done at a distance, can be connected to the tax territory and be subject to the tax of natural persons. This person who does not live in Belgium would be entitled to the dependent child tax credit. This means that you are going to treat him more favourably than an asylum seeker, in respect of which the only argument you are mobilizing is that he is on a waiting register and not on the population register. And for that reason, discrimination can be justified, which the Council of State also refutes. That, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, is the analysis that I wanted to present to you. Of course, I have my morals and you have yours. You have your value judgments and I have mine. I'm not asking you to share them. I can still say that I find what you are doing completely scandalous. But, look, I know I won't convince you. On the other hand, in the field of law, here too, your approach is inconclusive. And so, at the very least, if you don't hear our ethical arguments, at least hear our legal arguments and withdraw this bill, which, I would say, does not improve your image of political and legal know-how but, above all, deteriorates your image from the point of view of a basic conception of tax justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u26	Minister, here is a typical example of a nauseating and stigmatizing bill. The majority used a bazooka to settle a non-problem, and practiced its usual policy towards refugees: to make them scapegoats. Beyond being misguided from a legal point of view, this text is without humanity in relation to the situation experienced by the persons concerned, and without societal vision. Yes, there are today in the world phenomena of war, violence, natural disasters linked to climate change, which lead some of the inhabitants of this Earth, other than us, to seek a better life, or a life all of a sudden, elsewhere. Yes, all rich countries, like ours, must take their share. We believe that this is far from the case. These countries must assume conditions of reception not only worthy, but also intelligent, in the sense of "bearers of a true vision of society and of the future". Intelligence, as part of a reception policy, is also to allow the children, present here for some time or for the rest of their lives, to prepare their future and ours, because they will be part of it. In this context, it is a matter of giving them the minimum necessary, or even a little more if possible, and of enabling them to learn our language, a profession. To allow their parents to play their role as parents, all of them, with financial resources, even if we do not talk about extraordinary amounts. I'd like to reassure those who are worried. The first reading tried to ascertain the budgetary impact of this measure. That was impossible. At second reading, you were ripped off the figure of 4 million euros, but this figure was not supported by any mathematical demonstration, and again: I told you yesterday how much I was wary of your mathematical demonstrations. It is therefore essential to ensure a dignified welcome that also prepares the future. It seems, because things are not clear, that some asylum seekers in Belgium, pending the processing of their case – they are not responsible for the slowness of this treatment – sometimes benefit from a tax credit, a tax credit granted to families with children whose income is below the taxable threshold. As I said, you have not been able to explain to us clearly at first reading how many people were involved, or to let us know how much it was. At second reading, you spoke of EUR 4 million. This shows that this project does not make much sense, except that of stigmatization. That's why I talked about a bazooka to solve a problem that is not one. This bill is nauseous. He doesn't honor our parliament. I would not be proud, instead of Ms. Lanjri, a member of the CD&V, who has tabled a bill on the subject. I would not be proud if I were a member of the majority forced to vote for this text. As a parliamentarian, I am not proud that such a text will be voted on here. Indeed, while this text is critical of the substance, from an ethical point of view, it is also critical of the law. Mr Laaouej elaborated on this point. In fact, the Council of State – but I know that you pay very little attention to those who advise you – and the legal services of the House, which are also of good advice, point to the anti-constitutionality of this text and the risk of a setback of the federal majority if this text were to be voted on. You can choose to avoid this setback by withdrawing your bill. But if you go to the end, for a very small profit in the budget, you will create an important moral problem, which is why we will not vote for this bleak text.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u27	I'll keep my argument in place. My analysis is in line with Mr Gilkinet's, especially his ethical analysis: what human and world view is the starting point for avoiding a very small amount of very disadvantaged people? What bothers me most is that the scheme is not very consistent. They say that asylum seekers are entitled to bed, bath and bread and nothing more. Then they also have no right to work. It is said that they are entitled to work and therefore have access to the labour market. I would understand this in part if the asylum seekers were unable to obtain any other income. Then your arrangement would be reasonably consistent. But, uh, my point is that there are measures being taken here for the show. It's just windowdressing. If asylum seekers work for one hour or more, they are entitled to the tax refund. The measure is therefore mainly a blow in the water, a lot of bleating but little wool.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u28	Mr President, I remember Minister Reynders' words in the election of Donald Trump. He denounced the path of populism, the path of racism that had been chosen by the United States and that could be followed by other countries tempted by populism. I think this bill is totally in line with that. It aims to exclude asylum seekers from the tax credit. I have three criticisms to make.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u29	Mr President, I asked for the floor after the previous speaker, Mrs de Coninck, because I wanted to serve her at her beck and call. We will, of course, support this draft law, because it is the logic itself. Mrs De Coninck had a point, however, when she said just now that it would be a blow in the water if people were immediately retaxed after an hour of work. That is why we have tabled an amendment precisely to prevent it. For us, once we have been recognized, we must have contributed at least three months in order to be regarded as a taxpayer again and to be able to obtain the tax credit. It is the logic itself that one must have been able to contribute to the system before one can benefit from it. So, Mrs De Coninck, I will respond immediately to your criticism. With the amendment we have tabled, it is impossible to get that tax credit after an hour's work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u30	It is quite instructive to see that the Vlaams Belang supports this project. This reinforces me in the idea that it is really a matter of doing a little what Minister Reynders denounced in Trump's election, the fact of going on the path of populism and racism. Here, the majority fit perfectly into this line. I have three criticisms of this project. First, it is a discriminatory project that emerges from a racist message, which is to exclude a class of the population from the benefit of a legal tax rule, which is normally granted to any resident of the country regardless of his or her situation. In fact, I had the opportunity to say in committee that, in my view, the impact assessment attached to the bill is not properly completed. Indeed, to the question "what is the impact of the draft regulation on the topic of poverty reduction?", It was not necessary to write "no impact" but "negative impact" because it is clear that this will impoverish a category of people. Secondly, on the second criterion of equal opportunities, it was not necessary to supplement "no impact" but to check the "negative impact" box, as this clearly has a clear negative impact on equal opportunities in relation to a discriminatory project with a racist connotation. Secondly, the Council of State finds that this discrimination is not motivated and that the principle of equality is violated. Third, this project creates fiction in tax law since someone who is actually resident is considered non-resident. You are resident in Belgium but, artificially, you are considered non-resident. The majority and the government compare with a diplomat. It is true that a diplomat, artificially, is not considered a non-resident while he resides part of the year. This comparison is not at all valid because it is a very special case. The diplomat is a resident of another country where he or she has a very specific tax status. The comparison therefore does not hold. In this case, asylum seekers are only effective residents of one country, they are not residents of another country. By removing this residence title, a form of stateless status is created from the residence. These are people who have no residence anywhere in the world. They're out of residence. No fixed residence, no tax residence, in any case. This project is therefore worthy of populism, which this majority denounces over and over again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u31	Mr. Speaker, Mr.Minister, this bill is so heavy with resentment, back-thinking, implying, that there is almost no desire to become more burdensome. However, I cannot let this text pass without expressing the discomfort it causes in the ranks of the CDH at different levels. From a legal point of view, this draft law introduces a total absurdity since asylum seekers residing in Belgium are considered non-residents, which is a nonsense and probably indicative of the non-existence that they would like to be attributed. It is true that if they were not there, it would probably be even better from your point of view. From a political point of view, we can see here the support of Vlaams Belang for this bill, while saying that it is not yet enough. The fight you're trying to fight is a lost fight. You'll always find wolves screaming louder behind you. You may get some electoral benefits, but I think you're feeding negative feelings that will eventually overwhelm each other. Finally, on the budgetary front, the Minister of Finance eventually dropped a figure in committee by saying that the impact of the tax expenditure was estimated at EUR 4 million. Yesterday we had a budgetary debate on the quality of the ex ante and ex post forecasts. I would at least like the Minister of Finance to include in the discussion the calculation note on which he relied so that we could have a trace of this estimate and, perhaps later, see what the bill will have reported, if not in the ballot box, at least in the state's finances. There is, I think, a duty of budgetary transparency which is necessary, otherwise the position of the enlarged majority in the Vlaams Belang would be akin only to an ideological posture.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u32	I do not want to repeat the debate we have had in committee. That wouldn't be right, and I don't want to stall. Here, however, heavy words are again used. We are talking about discrimination and a racist proposal. That's very odd. The accusations are also being made to me. Sometimes I am accused of being too lefty or too social. Now all of a sudden I'm being put in the other camp. Now I'm too racist. I would like to make it very clear that this is not about the exclusion of persons on the basis of their origin. This is about something that is only logical, regardless of whether it concerns Belgians, Americans or anyone else. As soon as one gets bed, bath and bread and gets all the support that is needed from the government, it is logical that one does not get any money back from taxes, unless one also works or is an asylum seeker who is not in the shelter, but is, for example, taken care of by family. The criticism that is being expressed here is therefore rather gratuitous. I would also like to make it very clear that no one here is being endorsed. After all, refugees have never asked for a tax credit. We are simply closing a gap in the legislation that has been around for too long. The government has also taken account of the comments made by the Council of State. Again, the text is not intended to exclude a target group. If a Belgian gets bed, bath and bread, it would be in the same situation. Whoever works and is in the shelter will have to pay a contribution. That is already laid down in the Reception Act. In this sense, a certain correction can also be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u33	Mrs Lanjri, you tell us that "you have to work and contribute in order to be entitled to credit". That's what you said!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u34	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u35	But you just said it! You say: "They are not given the dependent child tax credit because they do not contribute, they receive food aid, they are housed. And since they don't contribute, they don't work, they don't get the tax credit." Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u36	Mr Laaouej, there are 116 000 living wage earners in our country. Even if they don't work, they still get the tax credit. I think that is only logical, and I think that is fair. The tax credit will also be granted to the recognised refugee who receives a living wage or the asylum seeker who receives a living wage and is not in the bed-bath-bath-bath-care facility. I don't have a problem with that either, of course not, nobody. That's the difference. It's not about contributions. By the way, I repeat that the scheme does not apply to all asylum seekers. It does not apply to the asylum seeker who is not in the care facility, but to the asylum seeker who is in the care facility. Some asylum seekers have lived here for a while.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u37	Let's stay on my question, if you will! What difference do you make, from a tax point of view, between an asylum seeker and a person who receives social integration income, who benefits from the CPAS? Explain the difference!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u38	None. It makes sense: there is no difference. If someone gets a living wage, he gets a tax credit, of course. I told you that, too. So don't put words in my mouth that I didn't use.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u39	I understand that. But what difference do you make between the two situations? What is the element that allows you to treat a CPAS beneficiary and a claimant differently at the tax level?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u40	The difference is that it's about someone who gets bed, bath and bread and therefore complete material support. A Belgian or a stranger who has lived here for 10 years and gets bed, bath and bread would be under the same regime.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u41	You don't have an answer, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u42	You have to understand, but it's easier for you to say I'm racist.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u43	Mr President, I cannot let that go. Is there anyone in this house who can testify that I called you a racist? You're defaming me! Beware of what you say, there are serious accusations! Can anyone testify here that I called you a racist? Stop, stop!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u44	Let's not create an incident where there is no incident.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u45	On the other hand, Ms. Lanjri does not justify the difference in treatment that she makes between an asylum seeker and a person who is a member of the CPAS or who has social integration income. That means, Madam, that you have a position and you are twisting the legal realities so that you can integrate it into a tax system that requires coherence from the point of view of law, which you do not have. That is why the Council of State says that this position will be questionable before the Constitutional Court and that there will be grounds for annulment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u46	Mr President, I have referred to this text as a nauseous one, and I have said to you, Mrs Lanjri, that you have already taken more subtle and humanist parliamentary initiatives than this text that you tabled and which inspired the government. We agree that the dependent children's tax credit has been introduced in our legislation to help people whose income is below taxable income, to help them and to enable them to care for their children properly. Today there are children, born in Belgium or not, whose parents are asylum seekers or not, who deserve a boost. They represent our coming. As has been said, you are dealing with a problem that is not one. At first reading, the government could not specify the number of persons involved and the cost of the operation. At second reading, we were able to get the minister to say that the amount was four million. We asked him how he got to that amount. He told us that it was his services that did the calculation. I think you are trying to solve a problem that does not exist and you are creating a fundamental inequality between human beings, depending on their status. This text lacks humanity and has no vison for the future of our society. I find it harmful for you, Mrs Lanjri and the CD&V, to lend yourself to this game because sometimes, within the majority, you can find in your party a little more social sense and more openness than in the head of the other members of the government. I take you here, in flagrante defiance of a text that is the opposite of what I expect from a parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u47	The government has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u48	Mr President, it is clear that a deep discussion has begun on principles, beliefs and value judgments, and that in this respect there is a difference between the majority and the opposition, which I have already seen in the Committee on Finance. From a technical point of view, I am focusing on the discriminatory aspect of this project. I trust the Council of State that "asylum seekers are excluded from the tax of natural persons because they do not meet the main criterion of being considered as Kingdom residents. On a proposal from the Council of State, an exception was made for asylum seekers considered to be inhabitants of the Kingdom before applying for asylum in Belgium because the seat of their wealth was already established there". Rather than changing the content of the concept of residence, the government decided that asylum seekers would no longer be taxed by individuals but by non-residents. Asylum seekers will be treated like all non-residents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u49	Minister, first of all, do you realize that you are in the process of taxing non-residents, persons who reside in Belgium, or people who reside in Belgium 365 days/ 365 days? So imagine the absurd system that is being proposed to you. Then I acknowledge your sincerity. You said, "I have judgments of value, I have an ideological vision different from yours." You're playing cards on the table and that's pretty good. On the other hand, some of the CD&V felt that it was not a matter of value judgment but rather a matter of principle. It would be a good idea for you in the majority to agree whether this is a question of principle or judgment of value and ideological posture. There is a problem of consistency within the majority! For the rest, I am absolutely not convinced by the answers you give to our arguments and, in fact, you do not bring them, which is very regrettable. I appeal to all those who, in the majority, may have a fibre - because of their liberal or humanist political philosophy - and who consider that one man is equal to another man, who consider that when one discriminates between individuals by withdrawing rights from some, this is never done lightly. Ideally, we must never do so because there is a fundamental principle which is the principle of equality and this principle of equality is guaranteed by the Constitution - it is not nothing, the Constitution! - and beyond the Constitution, through the European Convention on Human Rights, because we are a democracy where there is no hierarchy between human beings. There are no first-, second- and third-zone taxpayers. There are taxpayers. That's what you don't want to see. So I call for a break in the liberal ranks, in the humanist ranks of the CD&V, not to vote this text and to join us in its denunciation. It's never too late!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u50	Minister, you quote the Council of State in a sentence that no doubt arranges you and in which you think you will find legal support. It is, however, overly clear in the opinion that it gives your text and that I will quote, since you have quoted part of the opinion of the Council of State: "The Council of State is not aware of any justification other than the political justification referring to the government agreement, so that it cannot properly assess the compatibility of the regime in draft with the principle of equality". This means clearly that the Council of State questions the observance by this text of the principle of equality and does not find in the justifications given in the original text and in the dialogue with the representative of the Government, the elements that can enable it to assert that the principle of equality is respected. He advises you to clarify things better and he says, because he knows exactly what is going to happen - he is used to this type of text - that ultimately it will be up to the Constitutional Court to assess whether the measure is reasonably justified. You are going to vote for a text that I consider to be nauseous - I do not go back to the debate that we have formulated - but which, in addition, is going to be attacked before the Constitutional Court and in relation to which you are going to lose. It is a way of legislating that is really problematic. I reject the idea that you can find in the opinion of the Council of State elements that give a legal basis to this text. You create a difference in treatment between citizens of the world, citizens of the Earth who live here in Belgium and who will not be subject to the same tax rules. Neither you nor Mrs Lanjri are able to justify it at government level!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u51	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u52	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2199/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2199/5) The draft law has 4 articles. The bill has four articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u53	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the reserved amendment and on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u54	Sustained: the vote on the amendment. Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 4
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u55	******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u56	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Roel Deseyn, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u57	Mr President, the debate in committee on this text was interesting. They were somewhat delayed because the committee felt that it was better to have the opinion of the Court of Auditors on the draft text. This opinion has been analysed and is not entirely enthusiastic. I am not going to go back to the content of the discussions on the text, but to the implementation of the federal accounting reform. The Act of 22 May 2003 still suffers from many shortcomings in its implementation. I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of Budget to this article in the observation book, which includes a fairly thorough and strict audit of how the federal government is implementing, with great delay, the reform of federal accounting. The Court points out that no less than 20 articles of the Act of May 2003 still have to be implemented. They require an execution order. Eleven of them concern the general administration and this covers a whole series of questions: how rights are established, the keeping of supporting documents, the keeping of books and newspapers, etc. These are very technical issues, but they are important for the proper functioning of the State services. The Court notes that these missing orders are classified through a promotion process, depending on whether they are ongoing, planned or unplanned. It is realized that there are a number of projects or preliminary draft orders that are still far from being planned as they are considered unplanned. In 2016, contrary to what had been hoped, there will be no publication of implementing orders. I stress these delays in the implementation of the regulations because they are not without impact. As a result, there is a form of legal uncertainty, with most departments eventually adopting, through circulars, provisional provisions that are inconsistent and, above all, lack legal solidity. The Court considered the causes of this delay. In particular, she pointed out that only one staff member had been appointed on a part-time basis to draft implementing orders, and that within the Management Committee of the Budget and Accounting FPS, there was not really a clear vision of what those orders should contain. There is a form of consensus-building that delays the process a lot. I don't want to overwhelm the minister. I know she's aware of this problem. I would just like to encourage him to consider that this work to implement the reform is an important work, which is not necessarily very politically positive but which is very technically necessary. The criticisms of the Court of Auditors were not contested by the SPF since the SPF indicated that it had no comments to make with regard to the conclusions and recommendations of the Court of Auditors. I assume that we will one day have an opportunity to discuss this, perhaps in the Court of Auditors sub-committee. In this connection, I would like to encourage the Minister and to make her aware of the need to give priority perhaps to this technical but important work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u58	Thank you, Mr. Dispa, for your intervention and encouragement. It is true that the royal decrees of execution are not extremely politically bearing but nevertheless fundamental matters. I agree with you. I would remind you that we were waiting for this law to be passed in order to pass a royal decree of execution, which we had already tabled in the Council of State. The Council just pointed out to us that we must first wait for the amendment of the 2003 law to be voted on, and this on the 20 articles you are talking about. This already concerns seven articles. There are thirteen of them left. The job is definitely not over, I agree. Another very important royal execution order is the Royal Actor. Even though it has not yet been developed, it should also wait until the 2003 revision of the Act is passed so that it can take a step back and see who actually specifies the roles and responsibilities of each. Another royal decree is not completed but is being drafted. It is a royal decree that we are working on as a matter of priority. Another royal decree of which I can speak is the one concerning the appointment for the Commission of Public Accounts and a royal order of organization. I asked to speed up the move because I do not fundamentally understand what could still prevent us from moving forward. Mr Dispa, I share your analysis. These are important technical materials. I hope I can quickly come in front of you if you have any questions about this and explain to you what is happening.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u59	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u60	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2139/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2139/4) The draft law has 39 articles. The bill has 39 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u61	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u62	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u63	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u64	Mr Crusnière has the floor to speak on behalf of his group.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, like any multilateral agreement, the Treaty of Paris is a balance. And in a balance, there are always positive points and disappointments. But overall, we have strong reasons to welcome the Paris agreement. We can welcome the level of ambition set at COP21. The agreement contains the objective of limiting warming to 1.5 degrees. This is more ambitious than the original goal of COP21, which was only to contain warming below the 2 degree threshold. The Paris Agreement also includes provisions to increase the capacity of countries to adapt to global warming to ensure the transition to a low-carbon society and to accelerate climate finance. We are pleased to see the level of ambition increase with this agreement. But we also know that the measures taken to combat global warming are unfortunately insufficient. Currently, national contributions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions announced by individual countries are putting the planet on a path of warming well above 1.5 degrees. I would remind you that, according to the IPCC, global emissions should be reduced from 40 to 70 per cent by 2050 to avoid an uncontrollable climate package. Strong measures will have to be taken by all the countries of the world to meet the level of ambition set by the Paris Agreement. The Paris Agreement is therefore a starting point, a first step that must require regular follow-up. In this regard, we hope that the European Union will not lag behind in this process and evaluate and then strengthen its policies to combat global warming. Ladies and gentlemen, the industrialized countries are the main contributors to the accumulation of greenhouse gases. Yet it is the developing countries that suffer the most from it. Global warming exacerbates inequalities between industrialized and vulnerable countries. For the PS, climate justice must be at the heart of international agreements. At the 2009 Copenhagen Conference, industrialized countries set themselves the goal of mobilizing $100 billion a year by 2020 to support developing countries. The Paris agreement confirmed this amount of $100 billion. We must now move from speech to action. We must implement this commitment in order to enable vulnerable countries to cope with the consequences of warming. The aid granted must also enable these countries to achieve their social development without taking the same polluting paths we have taken in the past. It is a matter of climate justice and social justice. Colleagues, after the Paris Conference, the world is a little better. The planet, however, is not saved. This agreement is a framework. It is now up to us to implement it. After the pathetic episode of burden sharing, our country must move to a higher speed. For the PS, the Federal and the Regions must implement the Paris Agreement and draw up a roadmap for climate change. This roadmap will contain intermediate targets to achieve a reduction of at least 80% to 95% of Belgian greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. It is only under these conditions that we will live up to the objectives set out in this Treaty. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I would like to bring a note of hope. As the international political situation deteriorates in recent years, the agreement reached in Paris in November 2015 has been a tremendous signal of hope. This agreement shows that 195 countries, with their own differences and interests, are able to come together and defend a common cause. Many crises are going through this world. They are climate-related, but also social, security and humanitarian. To deal with these multiple and interrelated crises, we need dialogue and solutions at the international level. The Paris agreement shows that this is possible. The Paris Conference has shown that multilateralism can work when political will is at hand. The Paris agreement wrongs all those who cynically look at the global dialogue that the United Nations allows. It's a huge success! I hope that this can serve as an example in facing the many challenges facing international policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u66	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on 12 December 2015, Belgium, as one of 195 countries, signed an ambitious, binding and fair global climate agreement. It was a historic moment: 195 countries have committed themselves to keeping the global temperature rise below 2 degrees Celsius compared to the pre-industrial period and even to limit it to 1.5 degrees Celsius. These objectives, ladies and gentlemen, are a minimum minimum in order to combat a permanent climate change that is disastrous for our planet. So there is absolutely no time to lose. Even China and the US, the two biggest polluters in the world, thought of this. So we can be pleased that the agreement is there and that we are part of it. But there's a comment. On 4 November 2016, Belgium was on the sidelines, when history was written in connection with human efforts to combat climate change. We, fellow Members, were too busy fighting an interfederal robbertje burden sharing 2013-2020. Hopefully tomorrow the effort law, which aims to ratify the Paris climate agreement, will finally be adopted. Better late than never. Madam Secretary, don't let it be a stop. There's still a lot of work to be done. I look forward to your energy vision, to the inter-federal energy pact, to the negotiations on burden sharing, the burden sharing, for the period 2020-2030. Again, we're running out of time. It remains my belief that our country should and could play a leading role, especially in a changing global context, in which climate deniers and populists are getting more and more involved. It is now up to you and the government to show that we too can be ambitious in stopping global warming with all its consequences. In any case, we promise you critical support.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u67	Mr President, we are witnessing an important moment for Parliament and, in particular, for the Ecolo-Groen members, since we see an ecological project taking place at the heart of the parliamentary debate. Moreover, we are talking about a project that is politically and universally recognized by 195 countries. It is very rare that so many different nations unite around an objective. Here, that was the case. France, in the person of Laurent Fabius, managed to bring together nearly two hundred countries with a single objective. Placing around the table countries such as Saudi Arabia, a major oil producer, Russia, the United States and, of course, a group of states such as the European Union to reach an agreement with a human and environmental objective is a success that should be welcomed. The aim is therefore to limit the rise in global temperature to less than 2 °C and, if possible, to 1.5 °C compared to the pre-industrial era. This is an ambitious goal. It is not enough to wish for it, but we must make every effort to achieve it. We are at this stage. Belgium today emits 0.32% of global greenhouse gases. It is this rate that will have to be drastically reduced in the years to come. As others have pointed out, 80-90% of our CO2 and greenhouse gas emissions must be reduced. We're a long way from this burden sharing. Minister, you will implement this consultation with the Regions. There's work to do. We are currently discussing the Paris agreement and the reduction of greenhouse gases, while at the moment in Brussels, where we are meeting, we are experiencing a peak of pollution. However, no measures to combat this pollution and these massive emissions of greenhouse gases and pollutants emitted by heating and car are taken at the very place where we are discussing. In the federal government, Minister Bellot has drastically reduced the staffing of SNCB. However, we are well aware that reducing greenhouse gases in terms of transport is crucial if the energy transition to a less carbonised economy is to be successful. If we do not offer a chance for alternatives to private cars, i.e. public transport – the main train – we will not be able to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. There were many discussions in committee. There are a number of negative points in this agreement, including the exception to air transport. However, it is well known that large companies, including the Brussels national airport, provide very wide margins for progress and expansion. If we do not take air transport into account in the calculation of greenhouse gas emissions, we could miss the goal of reducing the temperature rise to 2°C or even 1.5°C. That's a shame. We environmentalists have questions about the additionality of the aid. I shall return briefly to this because discussions have also taken place on this subject. It is clear that the fight against climate change is the fight against climate change; development aid is development aid. If we are to put resources in place, we must put them on both sides at the same time. We cannot use the fact that we are practising development aid in the countries of the South, which, by chance, also concerns climate change projects to consider it a budget to combat climate change. If a real policy is to be pursued in this area, it must be given a specific budget. If, by chance, this aid has a benefit in terms of development cooperation and renewable energy development in the countries of the South, so much the better. But these are additional and complementary aids. The development cooperation budget cannot be used to combat climate change. This is a new subject that requires new and additional funding. I will conclude with a subject that remains at the heart of the problem: the aircraft is not the subject of greenhouse gas accounting. However, the European Union (and our State that has chosen this policy) has entered into a wide-ranging round of negotiations and multiplication of free trade agreements with a wide range of regions of the world, starting with regions very far away from our coasts and airports. This means that while the European Union is part of a policy of reducing these greenhouse gases in terms of transport, heating and industry, it also initiates the drafting and signing of agreements which will increase the transport of goods by water and air. This is contradictory. The objective of this free trade treaty, with all regions of the world, including very remote regions, is to increase transport by boat and air, i.e. the use of oil to transport these goods. There is therefore a contradiction. The solution, according to the European and Belgian Greens, is to give priority to our objective of combating climate change in relation to our commercial objective, that is to say, what should guide our action is to give prominence to a human objective of defending our humanitarian interests, our interests as citizens of the world, rather than to defending the particular interests of multinationals who could benefit from these treaties. That is why we have doubts. Of course, the objective achieved is absolutely unimaginable. The aim is not only to support the ratification of this agreement but above all to implement all policies in order to make this agreement real and effective. That is why we will vote for the ratification of this agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u68	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, a few words to complement the interventions of my colleagues. This project ratifies the Paris agreements which have already entered into force. This is a step in the right direction, although much work remains to be done to meet Paris' commitments to limit global warming to 1.5°C. In Marrakech, the parties to the Convention reaffirmed their determination to combat global warming. As the Belgian climate platform points out, the main outcome of COP22 is the opening of two years of intensive work to reach key decisions in 2018 that will make the implementation of the Paris Agreement a reality. We must therefore welcome the ratification by Belgium of the Paris Agreement, but we must look to the future. As we know, the European Union and all major emitters will have to revise their ambitions upwards to combat global warming in the coming years. With regard to our country in particular, the Regions and the federal state must quickly agree on the 2030 National Climate-Energy Plan and on their long-term vision. The latter must be consistent with the Paris commitments. The year 2017 will have to capture, as quickly as possible, the necessary decisions at Belgian level. That is what I very much hope for. We will have to be able to implement all the steps, from the beginning of next year, in committee and in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Paris Agreement has been hailed almost unanimously as a historic agreement. It is true that this agreement contains progress, but, in my view, there is no real reason to rejoice. Indeed, if compared to what might be done, the agreement is positive, compared to what should be done, one can almost speak of disaster. If ambitious principles and objectives have been announced and adopted by all, it is necessary to be clear and to be aware that all concrete and binding measures that would have led to the achievement of these objectives have been systematically avoided in the final text. However, between the climate and the fossil industry, we must choose, and quickly because we can see that the warming is faster than expected. We have passed the 1°C and the use of fossil fuels is responsible for 80% of current anthropogenic CO2 emissions. However, it is known that these emissions are expected to fall by at least 40 per cent by 2020 and by 85 per cent by 2050 in industrialized countries. According to the IPCC, 80 per cent of currently known coal, oil and gas reserves must remain buried underground in order to have two out of three chances of remaining below the 2°C of warming threshold. To stay below 1.5°C, according to the new reports released in November, 100% of the reserves must remain buried under the ground. So there's an emergency. In the final text of the Paris Agreement, however, we succeed in never mentioning fossil fuels. The words oil or coal do not appear. Renewable energy is mentioned only in the preamble. In addition, no concrete targets are specified in terms of emission reductions. It can be said that this is a victory for the fossil energy giants and all those who invest massively in it, like the big banks. Those who have sponsored COP 21 with millions invest $670 billion every year to look for new deposits. Recall that among the world's seven largest multinationals, six are major energy groups. The interests at stake are colossal! What is found in the content of the Agreement, on the other hand, is the promotion of a series of "false solutions" in the logic of a form of green capitalism. Market solutions with the logic of carbon pricing, and solutions for selling and buying CO2 quotas. These mechanisms are not real alternatives, in our view, but allow states and businesses to find loopholes so as not to reduce their emissions, because they often cost less. As Canadian writer and activist Noamie Klein said: "There is a war between climate and capitalism." This does not mean that nothing has been achieved. The recognition of urgency, collective and differentiated responsibility for a series of important general principles and objectives is in the agreement, including the need to aim at 1.5°. These are real advances, especially as they have been achieved primarily through pressure from below, mobilizations in particular from the countries of the South, trade unions and the climate movement as a whole. This mobilization is growing and, as we have seen in Paris despite the very difficult post-attack climate in which the COP took place, this is where hope lies. Let us be clear, hope is not in the politics of this majority. While the Paris Agreement recognizes the enormous and urgent climate challenges that we face, the majority continues, as if nothing had happened, not only its anti-social policies - this is another aspect - but also its anti-ecological policies. For example, a policy in the service of Electrabel with the extension of nuclear power plants and a lack of consecutive investments in renewable energies. For example, unprecedented cuts in public transport with 3 billion less for SNCB - today we see the deterioration of this mode of transport, in any case, all those who take the train see it. Trade agreements such as CETA continue to be concluded, which, in fact, favours an increase in long-distance intercontinental trade, which is not really a good thing for the climate. I could also mention the failure to meet the commitments on climate finance and the fact that the Minister is taking up the FEB speech. The 2030 commitments are complicated to meet, even though they are insufficiently ambitious to meet climate challenges. All of this within a Belgian framework full of haggling between competent authorities, as if global warming stopped at the linguistic or regional borders. We will vote in favour of the Paris Agreement but do not consider this positive vote as support for your policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u70	Mr President, thank you. I have had the opportunity to participate in this debate by replacing my colleague Deputy Prime Minister for Foreign Affairs for the text which must implement in our legal order the great Paris Agreement. I hear that this agreement is not perfect and that, in many respects, it does not go far enough. Some important areas are omitted - I am referring to Mr Hellings' speech - but it has the merit of being there. He managed to put around the table, universally, 195 countries to project themselves forward and chart together the path that must lead to the drastic reduction of greenhouse gas emissions worldwide. This event is important enough to be highlighted. I am pleased that, with the passing of the plenary session, we are able to ratify part of this great international agreement, which still has to pass before various assemblies in the coming weeks, and then allow the Minister for Foreign Affairs to bring the instrument of ratification to the United Nations Secretariat-General, proof of Belgium's commitment. What seems to me to be the most important, beyond the criticisms that are not too harsh and that have the merit of highlighting all that remains to be done - and there is so much work - is this journey that we will have to achieve between 2021 and 2030. Next year, from January onwards, if Europe informs us of the percentages of efforts that will come back to us, we will have to make these efforts concrete in the context of, among other things, the reduction of greenhouse gases, the increase of renewables and therefore of any measure which contributes very objectively to the reduction of greenhouse gases in our country, in Europe and also in the world. I understand that we are saying that development cooperation must be distinguished from climate finance. You know that climate finance is part of this burden sharing agreement that took time to be born. Some six years have been required for this and other regional governments to conclude. It is a good thing that it was concluded since on 6 December – it is a coincidence but it is still useful to remind him – I had the opportunity to pay at each level of power the ETS assessed for the period 2013-2020, which will allow each level to translate into measures the journeys that we have concluded, on the one hand, for the period 2013-2020, which is not yet completed, and on the other hand, the journeys that we will conclude for the years to come. I come back to international financing. In this context, one of the measures of the political agreement of 4 December 2015 was the participation in Belgium's international financing for the fight against global warming. Some say that EUR 50 million is insufficient and that it must necessarily be additional funding. First of all, it is an additional funding, as has been said, which will total 250 million after five years, which is still not bad! With regard to development cooperation and its related policies, I understand that we really want a very strong financial input not only on development cooperation but also on international financing, without recycling from one measure to another. I must say, however, that I have asked for a list of all the policies carried out in the context of development cooperation, to show clearly that an impressive series of these policies actually contribute to the fight against global warming among the countries with which we are working in that context. I know that, technically, that's not what some people want to see, but it has to be recalled. When you see the amounts financed, add them to the fight against global warming, you realize that Belgium, our small country, is making great financial efforts to engage internationally in the fight against global warming. The Agreement is going to live. I'll finish with that, Mr. President. In 2018, the most ambitious countries will meet. They are already preparing this work with a view to listing concrete actions and, above all, to finalising the financing they intend to commit to reach the level of US$100 billion. Belgium is one of the most ambitious countries. I know that through our climate service, which is highly competent and internationally recognized, we are very much involved in the development of this concrete path. We are among the countries that are strongly committed. I count on your help to convince, with your interventions, all the members of my government - I have already begun to do so - that the financing of these policies will be increasingly supported and that we really have a concrete commitment at Belgian level to make our planet viable for future generations. Thank you for your interventions and support. I wish the Paris Agreement well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u71	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u72	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2175/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2175/3) The draft law has 4 articles. The bill has four articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u73	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u74	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mrs Karine Lalieux, Mrs Karin Temmerman and Mr Damien Thiéry. They shall refer to the written report. I call Mr Wollants.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u75	Mr President, Mr Calvo raises a fair question as to whether the questions will all be answered at the end. I suggest that I give all the answers now, so that people no longer have to ask questions. Colleagues, when we talk about the repartition contribution, this always leads to intense debates. We spent a lot of time on that in committee. It is clear that we need to install a system that will last for the next few years. In the current system, the last few months of the year have always ensured that the pennies were there for the following year. The present draft saves us that exercise for the following years and ensures that a realistic amount of money is received in the budget. So far there have been lawsuits year after year, and that may have been done. Moreover, the situation has changed fundamentally. Contrary to the previous system of capturing nuclear interest rates for 7 plants, a separate system is being set up for power stations whose life span was extended to include the previous legislative term for Tihange 1 and this legislative term for Objectives 1 and 2 for the sake of security of supply. So we had to change the story. We spent a lot of time in our committee explaining how the system now works. Apparently that will also be the subject of debate today. It is quite clear to me in committee that the level of the amount is determined by the contribution capacity of the various power stations and that the way in which the tax is distributed is based on the year preceding the levy. Let me go into the details of the amount. In fact, a higher amount has been registered in recent years. This involved a number of other plants. The key question is whether the proposed amount is realistic. In other words, what does it take to capture the nuclear surplus? For 2015 we worked with a gross amount of 297 million euros. For 2016 there is a gross amount of 247 million euros, if we do not include the plants whose life span has been extended. Of course, there will be additional funding for Objectives 1 and 2, 20 million euros, and for Tihange EUR 10 million. That is to say, the gross amounts are quite similar. There are differences, but they are perfectly justifiable. For example, energy prices, which have been different every year at all, have now changed considerably. On the wholesale market, suppliers and producers work with a kind of hedging strategy to sell their electricity on the market. For the sake of balance, they use a three-yearly price system, whereby part of the first year, part of the second year and part of the third year are paid. As I said in committee, prices have changed considerably. I do not go into detail, but in 2015 the average price was about 50 euro/megawattuur. For 2016, this price is around 46 euros, which indeed accounts for a lower nuclear interest rate. In fact, the CREG has been investigating this. Now, in its report on the safety net mechanism, in which it devotes a chapter specifically to the reduction in electricity prices, the pure commodity, it finds that this commodity has fallen by 47 percent, which, of course, means that nuclear interest has to be captured in a different way. We discussed for a very long time whether it is an N system or an N-min 1 system. In the meantime, I'm sure you all know perfectly how that works, but for sport, I'd like to repeat it. When the system started in 2008 at the very beginning, the year N 1 was used to ensure the provisionability of the core commission company and to find out how it could be deposited so that it would be done properly. That system has always been on the table. We have always looked at the year before for the amount. Of course, this is not the same as capturing the nuclear interest rate the previous year. I will come back to that later. For example, in 2014, this has been re-recorded and it is said that the calculation of the taxable base is indeed based on the calendar year that is the year preceding the year in which the repartition fee is collected. This was also done in the same way in 2015. That's the logic, too. However, I note that there has been a lot of confusion in the debate as to whether it is about capturing nuclear interest rates for 2015 or 2016. That is the basis of the debate on which we have spent a great deal of time. It may also be worth dealing with the link with what the court has set out. As you know, every repartition contribution involves a judgment of the Constitutional Court. There too, of course, we have looked at what had to be done and how it should be looked at. There we see that the opinion of the Council of State, which has now arrived on the basis of the amendments tabled by the opposition, is somewhat murky and that there are indeed differences. That is why it is absolutely worthwhile looking at the judgment of the Constitutional Court to see how that happened and how we should look at it. I will refer to a number of documents from the Constitutional Court, so that it becomes clear how the repartition contribution actually works. In this case, there is the 2015 judgment on the remuneration for the year 2013. The Constitutional Court states that it has been determined by the legislator in order to take into account the contribution capacity of the contributor and the existence of the significant excess profits generated by the activity of electricity generation through the fission of nuclear fuels. It has been argued that this choice was made taking into account the historical and future context, including the benefits enjoyed by core operators and companies, as well as the evaluation of the effective tax burden borne by the sector. The repartition contribution shall not be calculated on the basis of the turnover or profit of the contributors, which shall be realised in the course of the tax year but on the basis of their contribution capacity. This is an important aspect to which the Constitutional Court referred. In any event, it enables the legislator to estimate the contribution capacity on the basis of the year N 1 and thus to estimate the nuclear interest rate in order to capture it in this way. It goes even further. If we are going to look at how they view the repartition contribution further, then the contested repartition contribution to which it refers is due to those persons who, on the date of publication of the Act, had a share in the industrial production of electricity by fission of nuclear fuels. This is levied, not by applying a rate to profits, and I think that this should be a piece of paper generated during a given period by the production of nuclear power, but by applying a break which expresses a ratio between the amount to be recovered established by the legislator and the share of each contributor in that production in year N. In this way, it is estimated without, as the Constitutional Court continues, taking into account the income or profits generated by this production in the calculation of the tax. I believe that there has been a great deal of confusion there, and I think that this must be looked at. Moreover, we have to note that those documents of the Constitutional Court make it very clear that it cannot be a retroactive tax, which means that under no circumstances can it be a tax on the nuclear interest generated the year before, which makes it clear that the year when the tax is levied is also the year on which the nuclear interest is captured and that it certainly cannot be considered otherwise. I will quote the Constitutional Court more clearly in this respect: "The contested provisions do not introduce any tax levied by applying a rate to profits generated in the course of a given year by the production of electricity by fission of nuclear fuels. The purpose of the repartition contributions is therefore not to collect the nuclear interest generated during the year 2012. This was clearly about the repartition contribution 2013. I repeat, this repartition contribution is not intended to collect the nuclear interest generated in the course of the year N................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I think this is very important. Mrs Lalieux says no, apparently she knows better than the Constitutional Court. Mrs Lalieux will have the floor soon. In that respect, I think there can be no doubt. It is, of course, also in line with what I said in committee earlier, namely that there can be no problem there. A number of amendments were tabled by you in order to rectify a number of cases which do not necessarily need to be corrected on this basis. Moreover, the Council of State considers that the way in which you wish to rectify it is inadequate and not correct. It is therefore recommended that we stick to the draft as we have presented it, so that there can be no problem and there is legal certainty for collecting the contribution up to 2026, as planned. It is striking that a certain amendment has been misspelled. I believe that this is an amendment from Ecolo-Green. Those who have been involved for a while know that there was a lot of discussion in 2008 about the extension of the Tihange IV nuclear power plant. Mrs Tine Van der Straeten insisted that this was complete nonsense because, as you know, Tihange IV is the café across the plant. You'll be visiting Tihange soon, so you might want to stop by the café. It is a small self-employed person, so I am absolutely opposed to you taxing it further. I think it is important that we do a proper job there and that the memory of Tine Van der Straeten in the Ecolo-Green Group can continue to live, so that in future you will not table that amendment in this way. I know that the cafe was long to take over, and I understand that a buyer was found in 2015. During the previous legislature we went there under the impetus of Mr George van het cdH to drink a pint as a result of our visit to the nuclear power plant. Perhaps this correction still needs to be made in the amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u76	Mr President, Mr Wollants must confine himself to making a bit of humor about an amendment that would refer to Tihange 4. I would like to point out to him that the text as we have written and written spoke well about Tihange 3 but that once it went through the services and it was reworked in the official documents, it went to Tihange 4. However, our text, as we signed it by hand, I checked again, was about Tihange 3. You can continue with this for a long time! At some point, you will realize that in fact, you are attacking the services! I would like to say here, Mr Wollants, that in view of the way in which the work has been carried out in committee, it is particularly inappropriate for you to do so. You know very well that if we are now obliged to re-establish a committee debate here in plenary, a purely technical debate, it is because in committee, and I will demonstrate it just now, neither the majority nor even the minister were able to keep a line and explain correctly what was in this draft. That is probably why we will still have further explanations from the minister today. I find it particularly inappropriate to play on a technical error between what we have filed and what is talking about Tihange 3 and what has been printed and what is talking about Tihange 4. I wanted at least to put this in place, before speaking in the gallery later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u77	Mr President, Mr Wollants, it is true that humour always does good. Some plenary sessions are very long. Since you are pointing out a small technical error in an amendment drafted by Ecolo-Groen, I would like to see no vote taken on the amendments criticized by the Council of State and the laws criticized by the Council of State in the majority. We shall have the decency, Mr Wollants, to withdraw an amendment which we have tabled and which is criticized by the Council of State. We will not insist. If we were to follow the Council of State and the CREG, Mr Wollants, it is not an amendment that should be withdrawn, it is the bill. Then you'd be honest! Indeed, talking about coffee doesn't matter. To speak of a technical error by mocking in this way, like Mr Nollet, I find this particularly inappropriate. At the very least, trying to justify the unjustifiable is what you have tried to do, because the minister has not been able to do so. Continue to justify the unjustifiable, we will see in the years following what will happen!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u78	I think I have clearly demonstrated how the design works. The number of times I have heard Members of your group laugh at the Tihange 4 joke of two legislative hours ago is innumerable. (Protests from Mr Calvo) There are two reasons for this, Mr Calvo. Firstly, you did not take part in the committee's visit to the plant. Secondly, the transfer of Mrs van der Straeten's files to yourself may not have gone as smoothly as it should. But I'll come back to the design. The draft was based on the judgment of the Constitutional Court. The fact that it is coherent with the existing case law is the key to my assessment. You can't just change the rules. We have to note that, in certain amendments and in the opinion of the Council of State, it is based on a false premise, namely that the production of the year before is taxed. This would automatically render the tax retrospective, so that each tax would become retroactive since 2008. On the other hand, the Belgian State has done everything in its power to ensure that the interest rate cannot be regarded as retroactive. It should be seen as the capturing of the nuclear interest rate of the year itself, taking into account the unavailability of the amount of the interest in the year N.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. There should not be the impression that the repartition contribution of 2016 is about the interest rate of the year before. If not, we will have to deal with a retroactive system, and that absolutely must not happen. If we had wanted retroactivity in the past, I would have actually identified myself with the Belgian State, we would have lost things. In any case, a stable legal framework must be established, which takes account of the N R &amp; D principle and the N principle. I am convinced that you will return to retroactivity in the defence of your amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u79	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 has become for the majority and for this government a real road of the cross. For the past two years, colleagues, the government and the majority have put the knee down many times. So much suffering for two aging small reactors, minister! It's no longer politics, it's almost become religion! But nothing holds this government and the majority when it comes to serving the dogma of nuclear power. It does not matter whether the Council of State renders murderous opinions and demands that the text be amended. It doesn't matter, Mr Wollants, if the energy regulator seriously criticizes this project and asks for more than ten amendments to be tabled. It doesn't matter if parliamentarians ask that the text be amended to protect the general interest and the taxpayer. The devotion of the majority has a reason no one ignores. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you are completely chained to Electrabel and you can no longer reverse. On November 30, 2015, Prime Minister Marghem and CEO Mestrallet of Engie initialled three bills, including the one before us today. So we're looking at the last of these three bills. Fortunately for us, Mrs. Dierick! They then shook hands in front of the cameras. Everyone was smiling. On that day, the government and its majority promised Electrabel and Engie that the three bills would be passed without Parliament having a say, within a certain period of time that the minister had to extend repeatedly. As was the case with the previous two bills, Mr.Wollants, this bill was tailor-made for Elecrabel. Parliament has not had the right to make any changes to it, except for a few amendments that you have tabled. However, there are three major problems. The first problem – as you mentioned – lies in the fact that this project offers a tax exemption of several tens of millions of euros to nuclear producers, namely EDF and Electrabel. We're not the only ones to say that, Mr. Wollants. The Council of State and CREG, the regulator that has many experts to analyse a bill, also affirms this. As in the past, the 2016 nuclear contribution must be based on the profits and production of the previous year; this has been done. If not, how do you want to know the production of the current year? We need to build on the previous year; that is what the CREG and the Council of State say. And that's what you did, Mr Wollants, in 2015! That's what you did in 2014! And that's what the government has done since 2012 with Mr.Wathelet. Now, as you know, since the Doel 1 and Doel 2 laws were passed, 2015 is a year of transition for three of the seven nuclear reactors involved here: Doel 1, Doel 2 and Tihange 1. These three reactors have seen their tax system modified, in connection, of course, with their extension. However, I want to repeat that so that taxpayers and SMEs know how much the state will lose, the tax system did not come into force on January 1, 2015. It came into force on the basis of the extension dates. For Tihange 1, it entered into force on October 1, 2015, i.e. nine months of production in 2015. For Doel 1, it entered into force on 15 February 2015, i.e. a month that escapes the nuclear tax. For Doel 2, it came into effect on July 6, 2015, so six months that are not taxed in your project. The problem is that these three periods, which represent many months of production, are not included in this bill. They are exempt from taxation on nuclear rents. You're quoting the Constitutional Court. We refer to the Council of State. We can read together the two pages of the Council of State's opinion on the amendment that we have resubmitted. The Council of State confirms a second time – it had already said this without the majority amendment, in the analysis of the bill a few months ago – that there is an exemption of several tens of millions of euros. That's what we called the "white year." That is what we have designated in committee as a "temporal hole". We have a beautiful time hole! We could laugh, but we're still talking about tens of millions of euros. And at the same time, it is the first year that the State proceeds as follows: exempting nuclear production. This had not happened since 2008, the year in which the nuclear tax was introduced. In such a complicated budgetary context, as we had the opportunity to see at the plenary session yesterday, when a policy of austerity is applied to all citizens, tax gifts are made to energy producers. We know that their nuclear power plants are now profitable. For me, Mr.Wollants, this is the real scandal of this bill. Minister, you had no problem calculating N and N-1 when it came to increasing VAT by 6 to 21% for all energy consumers. These are tens of millions of euros taken from consumers' pockets. Meanwhile, we make a tax gift of tens of millions of euros to Electrabel. Mr Wollants, this tax gift is not going to stop in 2016. In 2017, according to your expert's forecast, the nuclear tax will continue to fall and by 550 million in 2012 – even if I agree with you on the reduction of the energy price – it will rise to less than 200 million in 2017. It's any benefit to Electrabel and it's a dry loss to the state budget. There's double standards here, Mr. Wollants. This is outrageous! I'll explain in a moment why we also see a loss in 2017, despite the price. The second major problem in this bill is legal uncertainty. You have read some passages from the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which were appropriate for you. You haven't read the advice from CREG. What you don't like, you don't read it. Since the opinions of the Council of State did not help you, there was no reason to read them! Legal uncertainty could cost much more than the minimum €40 to €50 million. Maybe it would have helped Mrs. De Block. We would make fewer savings in social security if nuclear fuel were to contribute more to the state budget. It would have really helped her. It would have helped the patients. Unfortunately, this is not the case with you. In his opinion that you have forgotten, Mr.Wollants, the CREG points to many legal gaps in the bill. Do you agree? We auditioned her and she provided a detailed 80-page notice. She said the project was justified. I quote, as I had already done in committee, she considers the justification to be "lacunary, inaccurate and imprecise". Adding more negative adjectives is not possible with respect to a bill that should be legally indisputable. In its opinion, CREG calls for amendments to the explanatory memorandum to reduce this legal uncertainty, which we believe is normal in Parliament. In committee, we have asked many questions, but the minister has been unable – Mr.Nollet has just said so by asking you – to justify the government's choices. Mr Wollants, you repeated a demonstration here because we did not receive a clear answer from the minister during the commission. When I say that we are going to lose tens of thousands of euros in 2017 and in the following years, it is because, Mr Wollants, we have received no explanation but above all no justification for the choice to capture only 38% of Electrabel's profit margin since the base is 38% of Electrabel's profit margin. These are the calculations for the years to come. When we asked the reason for the 38%, we were told that it was proportional, except that in 2015, this government, like previous governments, captured 46%. So why change from 46% to 38%? That's the question! It's a dry loss. However, the Constitutional Court, which you so like to quote, has always said that 46% is a legitimate and proportional rate. It's not vexatious as a tax. So there's no reason to get 38% when you can get 46%. We have no answer to that. No answer either, Madam Minister - but perhaps you will explain it to us - to the question of why you are applying the degression mechanism between 2017 and 2025 and not for 2016. 2016 is totally exceptional with a tax exemption and no degressivity as in 2017 and 2025. I rest the question, too. Nor is there any response to the criticisms of CREG that the bill uses indices that no longer exist in the electricity market and that are contained in Schedule 3 of the bill. These indices no longer exist, but they are still included in the appendices to the project. The question remains unanswered. This lack of choice and justification gives the image of great amateurism and places legal uncertainty on this bill, which should normally bring a lot of money to the state. This could result in the cancellation of the scheme, with the result that Electrabel and EDF might not pay the fees charged to them on nuclear power plants. With such a poorly worded text, we must fear that the Constitutional Court will overturn it this time: there is no justification while the other texts were properly justified. Simply, even though a non-aggression pact was signed with Electrabel, if I understood correctly on both sides (and gifts), EDF never said, never wrote and never committed itself, but I am also asking the minister, not to appeal to the Constitutional Court in relation to this bill. Again, we regret that both the Council of State and the CREG have not been followed in its detailed opinions. I come to my third problem, a problem also raised by the Council of State and the CREG, namely the investigative power that should be given to the latter. We have discussed a great deal in committee in this respect. The CREG, like us, called for an investigative power, which it already has in the context of other tasks it carries out for the State as a regulator. This includes giving CREG access to documents in the possession of nuclear producers. The Council of State, in its first opinion, had asked the government to draft an amendment and send it to the Council of State. As usual, the government did not follow the Council of State and refused to follow it and send an amendment. Then, the CREG came to the committee to ask for its supervisory powers to be granted. I would point out, ladies and gentlemen, that the CREG is entirely a parliamentary matter. Parliament voted unanimously on its budget and felt that it was doing its job well because its budget was voted unanimously! Unfortunately, this bill gives him important tasks, but we do not give him the power to carry out his mission properly. If a problem were to arise, it would be at the mercy of the goodwill of Electrabel and EDF to receive the documents it requests. In this case, we can see once again the obvious influence of Electrabel. The interest of the State, consumers and the general interest is to have a strong energy regulator. Yet today, you are depriving this regulator of its power. It is also in the public interest to have a regulator who can carry out the tasks that the state and parliament ask of him without being dependent on the goodwill of the nuclear producers. The government preferred to defend Electrabel's interest rather than defend the general interest. It is lamentable but symptomatic of this government's policy! Mr President, for more than two years we have been working on the extension of two aging reactors, Doel 1 and Doel 2. We have seen all the contempt of the government for the public institutions that defend the general interest such as CREG. We have seen the "two-weight, two-step" policy with austerity policy for consumers and the red carpet for Electrabel. We have seen hypocrisy towards the population through the claim to leave nuclear power in 2025 while doing everything to postulate it. After more than two years of work on bills, the prevailing feeling is that there is a huge waste of time and resources. Instead of preparing for the energy transition (I refer to the debates on the policy note and the comments of Mrs Dierick, who were shaking the minister over the fact that the federal government is nowhere in the energy transition), the government has been trying to extend two small aging reactors that are not needed. There were other alternatives! Another way was possible. In order to guarantee energy security in the future, but above all to ensure the release of nuclear power in 2025, these two reactors had to be shut down - as the previous government had planned. In this way, a strong signal would have been sent to investors. Similarly, Belgium would have proved its credibility in its plan to exit nuclear power. But no one believes in it anymore. The majority refused to seize this opportunity and thus lost valuable years, while the race for the energy transition is launched all over the world. This is an irresponsible choice that our country will pay the price for in the years to come. With regard to Electrabel's tax exemption for reactors in transition, we are resubmitting an amendment which, of course, requires a larger sum of EUR 250 million in contribution to the 2016 financial year. The aim is, moreover, to replenish the budget of the State, which is going very badly, as we saw yesterday for long hours. In this way, the austerity policy you impose on our citizens could be relaxed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u80	Mr. Speaker, minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill that we will soon be voting on closes a sequence that we opened in the spring of 2015 and during which the Doel 1 and 2 reactors were extended. We have, perhaps it is necessary to recall, extended the activity of these reactors because, under the previous legislature, the risk of blackout was on the country. It was mentioned that there were plans to take off, that there were unexpected power cuts in winter, that there were cities plunged into the dark, that there were overcrowded hospitals, that there were schools without heating, and that businesses were forced to close down. The risk of power outages was the front page of the newspapers, which revealed in the spring of 2013 that Belgium had been close to blackout during the winter. It was, moreover, still a question at the end of winter 2014. Today, all this is over. That is why it was necessary to extend Doel 1 and Doel 2. Following this extension, in June we voted the bill setting the annual fee for Doel 1 and Doel 2 at 20 million euros per year from 2016 until 2025. At that time, and this is the purpose of the bill before us today, we still had to pass a bill setting out the nuclear allocation contribution for the years 2016 to 2025 for Doel 3, Doel 4, Tihange 2 and Tihange 3. Recall that a lump sum of €200 million was paid by the operator in 2015 on the basis of the bill passed by our assembly at the end of last year. From 2008 to 2015, the allocation contribution was set on the basis of a convention, legislation reviewed annually. The Constitutional Court accepted this specific mechanism, while asking that account be taken in time of the operator's capacity to contribute. Thus, only the overprofit, i.e. the amount that exceeds the remuneration necessary for the operator's activity, can be received. In 2016, this will be a lump sum of EUR 130 million. This amount is lower than in the past but is due to several reasons. First, the contribution no longer includes Doel 1 and Doel 2 plants. Like Tihange 1, they are now subject to an annual fee. In addition, it should be recalled that the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 reactors remained unavailable for extended periods during 2015. Finally, and above all, electricity prices have fallen sharply, also reducing the surplus profit likely to be received by the State. For the period 2017-2026, the State will review the allocation contribution on the basis of a mechanism that will collect the highest amount between an annual minimum amount and 38% of the profitability margin of the nuclear stock. This margin will take into account the sales price index, production volume and costs. For the period 2017-2019, however, the State will be insured with a minimum amount of EUR 177 million per year, before degression. For each subsequent period, an annual minimum will be set on the basis of an average of 38 % of the estimated margin for the following period, to which a reduction of 7,5 % will apply. The CREG will play an important role here in calculating the profit margin annually; from 2020, every three years, it will calculate and set the parameters of fixed and variable costs, until 2026, on the basis of a methodology decided by itself. In the course of our committee work, the opposition had wished to hear the CREG on the tasks within its competence and to obtain an opinion on the whole bill. As a result of this hearing, nine amendments were tabled by the majority in order to clarify certain points, without calling into question the merits of the bill to which we maintain our support. As Professor Hens, a specialist in ULg, recalled, he translated a positive agreement for the Belgian State. In addition to CREG, DG Energy will also have a role to play. It will calculate the proportional reduction in the annual amount of the contribution, as well as the highest amount between the annual minimum amount and the 3 per cent profit margin, and will apply the degressivity and the three-year contribution credit mechanism. The aim of this bill, ladies and gentlemen, is ultimately to ensure that the funds of the State are returned, while respecting constitutional jurisprudence, but also taking into account the drastic fall in the price of electricity and thus the profits of the above-mentioned operators. Some will object that the Council of State considers in its opinion that, on the bill, there would be State aid. The letter from the European Commission's Competition DG of 7 September 2016 nevertheless gave reason to the government's constant interpretation of this issue, concluding that there is no question here of State aid. In conclusion, it is a mechanism that has been validated by the Constitutional Court on the express condition that it be proportionate in order not to be assimilated to confiscation of the farmers' benefit. The extension of Tihange 1, Doel 1 and Doel 2, as well as the significant decrease in electricity prices, have gradually led the government to revise this regime. The Government has therefore ensured that a structural regime is developed to ensure a balanced legal framework that takes account of the specificities of the nuclear fleet outside the three reactors that have been extended.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u81	Mr Friart, I hear what you say and both the political demonstration and the legal demonstration. I wanted to go back to something you had in committee. It's in the report. So I'm going to quote it in such a way that you can... My only question is whether or not you're keeping that point. You recall, on page 42 of the report, that in 2015, the allocation contribution you are talking about now was set at EUR 200 million, "this amount having been estimated to be in line", you say, "to the over-profit realized in 2015. Tihange 1 has entered into account for the calculation of the contribution for the first nine months of operation of the year". My only question is this: do you maintain this or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u82	Mr Nollet, no, it's in relation to N-1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u83	What was said in committee is not correct?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u84	No, it's in relation to N – 1. With this bill, we are setting a long-term legal framework, in line with European and constitutional jurisprudence, ensuring that the state receives significant financial revenues, especially since every time there will be a guaranteed minimum. Let me conclude, therefore, by highlighting a project that will ensure substantial returns to the federal state, for the benefit of all its policies, including an ambitious energy policy, while giving the CREG a role of fixation and control that will strengthen the objectivation of the parameters of the formula laid down by the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u85	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the drafting and certainly the discussion of this draft law has not gone too far. Madam Minister, in September it became known that you had not collected enough money for the nuclear interest rate for Tihange 1. Even then, you completely ignored the CREG's warnings. However, the CREG was clear: in order to recover the nuclear tax, the Convention on Tihange 1 had to be amended. Madam Secretary, your actions were typical of the way you deal with the whole energy dossier, especially the nuclear dossier. You're actually neglecting your fundamental duty to keep an eye on the house. You're actually having it robbed by an energy monopolist. You stand there and you look at it. With this draft law, which the majority will probably approve tomorrow, you will do exactly the same. The amount of nuclear interest to be charged in the future is not the result of an objective analysis of the excess profits of Electrabel or nuclear power stations. It is simply the result of the agreement you have made with that multinational in the past. This is already the third draft on the subject. It is quite clear that this design, again, is also written to the taste of the monopolist. Again you ignore the warnings of your and our energy regulator, the CREG. Moreover, you ignore the advice of the Council of State, but that is what we are used to, both from you and from some other members of the government. How did the discussion go? It is not an example of transparency, Madam Minister. We have asked for documents from the beginning. We had to wait for that. You hid behind the confidential nature and so forth. We asked for hearings, because it is an important draft, not only for the future of our country, but also for you. If we look at the budgetary difficulties and the way in which the budget is collected here, then every euro is important, especially if it can be removed from nuclear interest rates. It is therefore important that the draft law should be maintained in the future. You originally only allowed a hearing with Mr. Colmant. The rest you found useless and inappropriate. However, the CREG had very pertinent questions from the outset, Madam Secretary. In view of the new tasks you have assigned to the CREG, I believe it was necessary to involve it in the draft law from the outset. The majority is laughing at the fact that we once again asked for a hearing, but we knew that the CREG had very pertinent comments. We wanted to discuss this with the CREG. The result of the first hearing was hallucinating. You will remember that, Madam Secretary. We then learned that the CREG was not at all involved in the drafting of the draft law. However, your energy regulator must assist you in such matters. The CREG was barely or only fully involved at the end. Even more staggeringly, according to the CREG, the draft law would not guarantee the long-term recovery of nuclear interest rates. The CREG itself formulated a number of amendments to rectify this. As usual, you put it next to you. We have therefore asked for a new opinion on the full draft of the CREG. The majority voted in favour, for which I am grateful. The CREG just hadn't had time to do that before. What were the conclusions, Madam Secretary? Nuclear interest rates are arbitrary and legally uncertain. It was stated that the Minister did not sufficiently support her choice. Why, for example, has Mrs Lalieux already referred to it? Or even, why is there degressivity as of 2017 but not in 2016? According to the CREG, Madam Minister, it is not unthinkable that interest will not stand before the Constitutional Court. Mr Wollants will probably deny that. If Electrabel goes to court, we can see what happens to the inning of the pennies. It is clear, Madam Minister, that many elements of the bill are not rational and are, once again, the result of negotiations in advance, which are determined by one energy producer. The next point was that the draft law is not coherent. The various nuclear power stations in our country are treated unequally: one power station is subject to a flat-rate charge, the other to a calculation formula. As a result, the levy is more severe for one than for the other. For example, Tihange 1 largely escapes the nuclear load for 2015. The specific fee for Tihange 1 will be charged for the year 2015, but will only apply from 1 October. Indeed, Mr Wollants, there has been a whole debate on this: how is nuclear interest rates calculated for 2015 and how is it collected? That is why, Madam Minister, we have tabled a number of amendments which were delivered to the Council of State, because we wanted clarity in this matter. As you know, this matter was discussed in the morning and was still discussed in the afternoon, and during that discussion there was quite a change of pace, despite what you said. This week we received the opinion of the Council of State on these amendments and I shall read it out. "As far as Tihange 1 is concerned, the CREG can be added to its finding that the remuneration to be paid for the extension of the operating period of the nuclear power plant concerned in 2015 can only cover the period from 1 October 2015 to 31 December 2015 and thus constitute the consideration for the extension which began on 1 October 2015. Consequently, it is not contradictory to levy the repartition contribution for the period preceding that date." In other words, Madam Minister, the Council of State is entirely right here. I quote: "As regards Objective 1 and Objective 2, it should be noted that the extension of the duration of operation of these plants also took place during 2015, in particular on 6 July 2015 and 1 December 2015 respectively. Therefore, since the repartition contribution for 2016 is calculated on the basis of the 2015 electricity production in non-expanded plants, there is reason to maintain production until the starting date of the extension.' Madam Secretary, the Council of State agrees with us twice, both for Tihange 1 and for Objective 1 and 2. In addition to the other problems that I have already mentioned, arbitrary-legally inconsistent, it is unbelievable that you give Electrabel another gift. Again, this is unique to the course and it is a constant in everything to do with your nuclear energy policy. Again and again you draw the map of Electrabel: the extension of the lifetime of Objective 1 and Objective 2, the blocking of the investment space for the alternative players, the tax advantage of EUR 700 million to Electrabel, the lack of and the initiation of a federal energy vision and an intergovernmental energy pact, etc. Madam Minister, we have had a lot of discussions in committee. We will retable the amendments which the CREG considers to be really necessary. We have been proved right by the Council of State. I would therefore recommend to the majority that we think about this before adopting this bill and vote on our amendments. Madam Minister, the government called for people's efforts and increased VAT on electricity from 6% to 21%. It is now time for a multinational such as Electrabel to finally pay fair taxes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u86	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, together with Mr Kristof Calvo, Mr Ecolo and Mr Groen have already had the opportunity to develop the political problem of the enormous gift offered to Electrabel by the inadequacy of the amount levied with the new version of the nuclear tax in view of the profits achieved by the accelerated depreciation of Belgian nuclear power plants. We do not draw a word, not a comma from what we have already had the opportunity to say, which is found in the various reports. By the way, I wanted to thank the many rapporteurs who, since the beginning of the legislature, have been following us in the work on the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2. Even if we do not take a word from what has already been said, we are not going to repeat the principled debate here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u87	Mr President, I would like to go back to this gift story. This is something that comes back regularly, as well as in committee. I think that if we were to give gifts to Electrabel, that would have to be reflected in the balance sheets, in the profit and loss accounts. This should be tangible. In view of the current price of electricity (30 or 35 euros per megawatt), in the light of the results of Electrabel, which are affected by the price of electricity, on the one hand, and by the contributions of distribution and the royalty, on the other hand (Electrabel's balance sheet shows a loss of 1.3 billion last year), I do not see where the State's gifts are. If the state gifts were really there, it would be in Electrabel's accounts. Electrabel would make large profits, the state would collect taxes. That would be quite different and more interesting. I don't see any gifts. In any case, they are not included in Electrabel's balance sheets.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u88	Mr President, do I have to answer that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u89	It's what you want, Mr. Nollet!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u90	Mr Friart, would I dare a parallel? When you give a gift to Kazakhs, they don't put it in their balance sheet! When we give a gift to Electrabel, Electrabel does not put it in his balance sheet with a line justifying that "this is a gift from Minister Marghem!" What is obvious, however, is that they benefit from it. The demonstration with the figures was presented in committee, each time. If you wish, I can do so, but I suggest that you do not do so and refer my remarks to the existing reports by thanking the various rapporteurs. But you interrupted me at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u91	There are no Kazakhs at this level but many account reviewers!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u92	My colleague Gilkinet is a member of the Committee of Inquiry into the Kazakh case. He explained to me that at the starting point of this case, there is a willingness of Tractebel to invest in these countries. However, in order to be able to do so, you had to pay under the table not very clear, nor very clear – they still have to be indagued. This led Belgian justice and French justice to take an interest in it. It happens that we must intervene to save the "soldier" Chodiev and save his two Kazakh counterparts who fall under the caudine forks of Belgian justice. All this is to be linked with Tractebel and the actions carried out in these countries. Closer to us, remember the hallucinating words of Mr Bens, who also had to be an officer in Kazakhstan In the nuclear safety sub-committee, he reported the presence of people hidden in the closets who listened to everything that was happening at the time of making decisions and who fell as soon as the door opened! He was talking about under the table that he had to participate in at some point. We can talk about the Kazakh issue, but that is not the subject of the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u93	Mr President, I would just like to say that if there had been gifts in recent years, this would appear in the balance sheets, in terms of profits.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u94	It is not because Electrabel does not make any profits during the years that you mentioned that there were no gifts! I hope that as a business manager, you understand your balance sheet. It is not because you have a profit or a loss, that upstream there was no positive and negative and gifts in the positive period. I did not want to talk about all these things and ask you to refer to the published reports, which are of good quality.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u95	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u96	Mr de Lamotte has just told us that the gifts were visible in the state budget and he is right because we see this in negative terms in tax revenues. As far as the political side is concerned, I refer you to the various reports. On the other hand, today we are going to complement this political view with a purely legal view. Let's go straight to the point! The text tabled on the benches of Parliament is not legally consistent and your comments in committee do not help to clarify the situation. In its opinion of 22 June 2016, the Council of State underlined its weakness by pointing out, in particular, that it is State aid which should have been notified to the European Commission in advance. The CREG added "a layer" in its 84-page opinion, drafted exceptionally at the request of Parliament. The Minister did not consider it necessary to consult with the regulator. We must remember these elements in this long history. The Minister considered that her project was so good that she should not consult with the regulator. However, Parliament requested additional written advice from CREG. From this point of view, I would also like to thank the various parliamentarians of the majority who have joined us in this request. I think this opinion has been helpful. It's the least I can do to recognize him. Not everyone may share all the considerations of the CREG, but the opinion has been helpful in enlightening the work. The minister wanted to pass the CREG. That is to say whether, with the opinion of the Council of State, with the opinion of the CREG, with the comments of my colleagues, the minister was expected in committee to clarify the legal situation, not political, and to answer the many questions of interpretation. Unfortunately, clarification, there was no question. Worse, everything that attended the parliamentary proceedings came out of the committee of 29 November more confused than it did so much as the minister's comments were confused, inconsistent and far from being able to respond to the legal objections of parliamentarians, the CREG and the Council of State. The report of the committee's work – and I thank the rapporteurs and the rapporteurs for that – has, in all logical terms, been able to do better than to reflect this ministerial galimatias. We are bitterly sorry that the minister did not grasp the pole that we were offering him, Mr Calvo and I, at the end of the committee, by proposing, in view of the state of confusion, that a table of figures per year and reactor per reactor be provided to parliamentarians. For any answer, and I refer here to the report, the minister has merely said that she does not perceive the added value of a written note that would be added to this debate. Everyone will judge, especially those who have participated in our parliamentary debates. I think and maintain that a table, a written note would have been useful, probably more useful than the oral comments that were made. I regret that there has been no such table, but there is still the plenary meeting today. And to help the minister take advantage of this last opportunity to clarify through the plenary session, I have produced a document that addresses the six issues. I've handed it over to the minister and I'm going over them here in the gallery. I have produced a document that identifies the six most important legal problems not resolved at this stage in the work on the nuclear tax, whether it is its distribution contribution or its "redevance" component, both being strongly articulated to understand the situation. I hope, Madam Minister, that you will not run away from your responsibilities and that you will have the courage to respond point by point, in a precise and legally concrete manner, to each of the problems that I will now develop. As I said, to help you, I provided the copy of the document. So there's no surprise. Problem number one. Are they six plants or seven plants in 2015? There is an inconsistency, Mr Wollants, between the explanation of the basis on which the 2015 allocation contribution is based. I'm talking for 2015. In committee, the Minister gave two very different versions of the basis on which the 2015 allocation contribution is based. You have your documents, Mr. Wollants. You have the report. The first version is on page 34, paragraph 3, of the report and I quote: "The amount of the specific allocation contribution for 2015 has been set at 200 million, which has been established on the basis of the CREG report of 12 March 2015, based on 2014 data". According to this report, since we are working on 2014 data, we are dealing with 7 plants. Second element, again in the same version "7 power plants", on page 38, paragraph 2, of the report, the Minister said: "In 2015, the contribution was set at EUR 200 million and aimed at the entire nuclear stock totally amortised". This is version 1. Later, we have version 2. On page 43, paragraph 3, last sentence, the minister said: "The allocation contribution for 2015 has been fixed for the entire nuclear stock except Tihange 1". There we no longer work on 7 plants but on 6 plants! Minister, what is the correct version? Between your two versions? Let's go point by point. And you will answer each of the points! We are facing two versions of the same report. The Minister gives two different versions in the same relationship between page 34 and page 43. These are not statements by members of the opposition, by Mrs Lalieux, by the President, by Mr Calvo, by Mr de Lamotte or by myself. It is the words of the minister who says on the one hand white and on the other black. Mr Wollants, you know you do! What's the correct version? The one on page 43 or the one on page 34? You're going to hear what the minister is going to say first. It changes a little! Mr Friart, it's a good thing, there was a third version. The Friart version is on page 42, colleagues! This version, I had pointed it almost for memory. I'm going to quote it anyway. Everyone asked for it. Mr.Friart proposes an even more original third version, as according to him in 2015, Tihange 1 entered into account for the calculation of the contribution but for the first nine months of operation of the year. We have version 1 of the minister who says these are the 7 complete power plants, version 2 is just 6 power plants, we don't take Tihange 1 at all and the Friart version is the Friart compromise: we refer to a period of 9 months. What's the correct version? Mr. Friart, are you maintaining your version or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u97	For the distribution contribution, indeed, but not in the context of the calculation of the royalty but for the distribution contribution since the distribution is always N – 1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u98	I'm on the allocation contribution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u99	That's all I'm gonna say. This is done on year N – 1, so we take it into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u100	But do you take this into account for nine months or in a complete way?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u101	For nine months!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u102	So, you keep your version three. Perfect, it's consistent with what's in the text! Minister, what do we choose? Shall we shoot the lot? Version 1, version 2 or version 3? That's the first problem. There's six of them. It won't be too long, but they're just as accurate and documented. Problem number two, N or N – 1? Inconsistency in the reference year! Once again, I went to read the report again. I thank the rapporteurs, but also the services, I would like to say, because we have worked within very tight deadlines. Version 1 is on page 34, paragraph 3, of the report. You say: "The amount of the specific allocation contribution for this year has been set at 200 million, which has been established on the basis of the CREG report of 12 March 2015 based on 2014 data". There, we are clearly in version N – 1. Version 1, version N – 1. You say more or less the same thing on page 32, paragraph 3, last sentence, I quote: "The amount of the 2016 contribution takes into account the time of availability of the park in 2015." So far, it's consistent, we're in version N – 1. The problem is version 2 on page 36, paragraph 2, which states: "For 2015, the contribution capacity of 2015 was taken into account in determining the contribution". There we are in year N and no longer in year N – 1. On page 35, paragraph 3, same thing! The Minister replied to Ms. Lalieux, who asked that "the nuclear allocation contribution is an estimated surplus profit tax for the current year". In this regard, we are well in version N. Then, on page 35, paragraph 6, first sentence: "In conclusion, the allocation contribution, the taxation year and the taxation year coincide": version N. Madam Minister, is that version 1 of your remarks or is that version 2 of your remarks to be retained? It's a very simple question. As a result of my reasoning, I will direct my questions according to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u103	Mr President, I would not intervene if this were not expected, but it was in line with expectations. It's actually a reissue of what happened in committee. Mr Nollet is right to point out to Mrs Marghem the questions that have not been answered today. Mr Nollet has been kind enough to put the written version of his speech on Mrs Marghem's bank. He will go over everything point by point and I think it would be good if the Minister also gave point by point answers and clarification. Otherwise we will end up in a situation like this which gave rise to questions to the Council of State, with additional amendments. After a journey of months, it is still not possible to make a decision on this dossier. Mr President, I would ask you to moderate, so that the Minister at least explains those points, precisely because the report gives rise to a great deal of confusion. Perhaps you'd like a copy, too, to follow? That makes moderating a little easier. I think it is appropriate to provide for the various problems to be dealt with. The minister already has a copy on her couch.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u104	It is interesting to redefine the way we work. From the moment that everyone develops their intervention and the minister says that they will respond globally, as has always happened, I think, Mr. Chair, that you can afford to move the work forward as usual. And the minister will answer later!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u105	That, Mr Thiéry, is our usual way of working. The Minister will answer later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u106	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u107	Mr Calvo, I would be more than happy to debate a different way of working, and I am actually asking for it. In fact, that was demonstrated at the Conference of Presidents this afternoon. However, we are not going to change our way of working and follow the route, in the middle of this debate. I would ask Mr Nollet to continue his speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u108	Mr President, let us see what we are in. We received the opinion of the Council of State this morning and we must react. We do so by tabling amendments. We would be perfectly able to request a meeting of the committee for a second reading. If you provoke us and it is not possible to organise the work properly, it is enough for a member to ask for a second reading in committee. That was not our objective or our intention. On the other hand, since I develop a reasoning in a tree, according to the answers of the minister, I necessarily choose one or another branch of this scheme. If she answers: "We take year N", my questions on reasonings N – 1 fall and I continue my questions on part N. On the other hand, if she replies: "No, I'll answer later", I have to develop both options - which is much longer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u109	Yes, I know, but that will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u110	Mr Wollants, you don't want to answer the minister's question?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u111	Mr President, I will be brief. If we are at this point in plenary, it is frankly not the responsibility of the opposition. The problem is that we are constantly working urgently when the Council of State delivered its opinion a long time ago, that we need to table urgent amendments, that the report is contradictory and that it is hundreds of millions of euros that run until 2026. Mr President, if we ask for explanations, it is obviously because we are defending the general interest, but we have understood - and I am sorry for that, because it also works in committee - that the minister did not want or knew not to answer. It is a shame for this case and, above all, for the interests of the State.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u112	Mr President, we will wait for the answer and I hope that, in the reply, we will be able to react point by point. Minister, if your answer is option N, then what in 2026 is that there will be no nuclear production if the text is not changed? You're following the sub-branch, the tree? If, on the other hand, it is version N-1 that prevails, then I ask you to withdraw the comments you made on pages 36, paragraph 2; 35, paragraph 3; 35, paragraph 6. In the absence of a withdrawal, there will obviously be a difficulty of interpretation in court or, later, by actors other than EDF and Electrabel, as the CREG reminds us in its opinion: third parties may also consider that they have recourse here. Is it then a matter of taking into account income or capacity in the event of the allocation contribution? Here, too, in committee, other colleagues can point out that the minister has given two very different versions of the operative fact. Mr. Friart didn't give his version to him. Maybe we can interview him. Finding a compromise could help. But the minister gave two versions. Version 1 is on page 35, paragraph 3, first sentence. I invite you, Mr Wollants, who are following the work, to read this passage. The Minister replied that the nuclear allocation contribution taxed the estimated surplus profit for the current year. If we follow this point, then it is income, overprofit that is the fact that the tax is payable. Version 2 is a few lines below, on the last paragraph of page 35. I quote: "However, as noted above in terms of the fact that the allocation contribution is responsible, if in 2016 a debtor still has a share in the industrial production of electricity by fission of nuclear fuels, the latter must be subject to the allocation contribution". This means that what counts here is no longer income, surplus profit, but production capacity, if we still have one. Minister, what is the correct version? That of paragraph 3 or that of the last paragraph? What will choose those who will have to look at your text and the reading to give of your intentions? Will they be able to choose themselves or will there be a clear answer? Is it a question of taxing income-generating event or capacity? Mr Wollants has no more answers than the minister. If it is version 1 - in the tree, version 3/1 -, if it is the version of the income that is retained, then there is clearly a threat to the revenue of the state. As the CREG points out in point 77 of its opinion of 28 November, since 2008 capacity has been the source of taxation. I quote: "As for the event in which the distribution contribution was made, it should be noted that the Constitutional Court held that the contribution was due by those persons who, at the date of publication of the contested law, held a share of the industrial production of electricity by fission of nuclear fuel." Let us not forget that the CREG points out in this respect that "the undertakings of the operators of companies having a quota to renounce pending appeals and the introduction of new remedies against the allocation contribution are not such as to mitigate the importance of the inconsistencies of coherence". The CREG talks about inconsistencies. I believe that with the comments that have been made in committee, this is not going to work out. "From then on, it cannot be ruled out that a third party should bring an action against the allocation contribution, for example on the basis of competition law or the constitutionality of the allocation contribution. It should also be recalled that, unlike previous years, this bill is intended to introduce an allocation contribution for eleven successive years. The risk of recourse to the allocation contribution must therefore also be assessed in the light of these elements." This is at point 156 on page 65 of the CREG opinion. Conclusion: if version 1 is retained in problem 3, several billion euros of public revenue are involved. If this is indeed an income tax, the minister puts the defence of the state at enormous risk in the context of appeals, some of which are still pending. Let's do the math. It's not complicated. If this option is chosen, there are 2.7 billion over the period 2008 to 2015, plus a minimum of 1.63 billion for the period 2016-2026. But we may be told that this is the other option that is chosen. Madam Minister, in addition to the elements I have communicated to you in writing, would you be prepared to transmit to Parliament, within the framework of the transparency required in this matter, the specific commitments of Electrabel or rather EDF? Would you be prepared to transmit to Parliament a copy of EDF's written undertaking that they renounce their appeals?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u113	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u114	You sent an e-mail. I ask you for a copy of the mail so that I can verify that conditions are not linked to it. Is the document you submitted the official document? Do they put conditions in the official mail for the withdrawal of their appeals?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u115	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u116	I just ask you to take the time to read it again so that you can give us all the certainty about it when you answer. And if that is not the case, could you give us the terms of the agreement so that EDF withdraws its appeals? Waiting for your answer; I will move on to the fourth problem. This is the problem that my colleagues rightly call "the White Year". The White Year is discussed here for the allocation contribution component. As has been seen from the previous problem, the allocation contribution is either a tax on income or a tax on production capacity. But in the end, regardless of the version chosen, we find that there is a white-year form, in fact, a year not subject, at least partially, in terms of allocation contribution. The first option: if it is an income tax, the 2015 tax would be based on 2014 revenues. However, the 2016 tax, as presented by the Minister in committee, relates to 2016 revenues. As a result, there is a hole in revenue 2015. A similar problem appears in the second option. If it is a nuclear capacity tax, the 2015 tax would be calculated on production capacity 2014 and the 2016 tax would be calculated on production capacity 2015 but the bill does not take into account Doel 1, Doel 2 and Tihange 1. Therefore, in this second option, for Doel 1, Doel 2 and Tihange 1, the period 2015, before extension, is not covered by an allocation contribution. In both options, there is a loss of profits for the state. The Council of State confirms this by analysing the amendments. I suppose you read it! He expands on the point by saying that indeed, there is a difficulty for the three plants. They should also lead to an adjustment of the overall amount of the allocation contribution for 2016. That is point 3.1 of the opinion of the Council of State. We are therefore strengthened by the fact that there is this white year for the allocation contribution regardless of the answer you give to the third problem. Fifth problem: poor allocation key for the 2016 allocation contribution. The $130 million for the 2016 allocation contribution is, as attested by clause 3 of the bill, distributed among contributors according to the 2015 key. For the years 2016 to 2026, I quote Article 3: "A share contribution shall be borne by the operators referred to in Article 2, 5° and by the companies referred to in Article 24, § 1, without solidarity between them and in proportion to their shares in industrial production by fission of nuclear fuel for the last calendar year." But there's a parenthesis. She said: Doel 3, Doel 4, Tihange 2 and Tihange 3. When taking into account the parenthesis, the Tihange 1, Doel 1 and Doel 2 power plants are not taken into account for the 2016 distribution. However, in 2015, these three plants were normally operating before entering their extension phase. It is therefore not legally correct to exclude Tihange 1, Doel 1 and Doel 2 for the months before the extension in the calculation of the allocation key of the 130 million allocation contribution 2016. This error poses a serious problem of imbalance between providers. It is known that for EDF, 50% is in Tihange 1, which is not the case in the other power plants. Therefore, EDF does not contribute to the extent to which it should contribute. I think it's related to the deal they gave. Remember, they were excluded from the negotiation. The minister had forgotten that EDF was also involved. She only negotiated with Electrabel. At the press conference on the 16th, at the bunker, we didn't see EDF's bosses. Anyway, I didn't see them. Maybe they were in the basement, or even further, or in the toilet at that time. So there's a problem they had to compensate for. The way we compensated is: "We're not going to take them into consideration, we're going to take another key for distribution." But legally, this is not the way to go, given the risk of recourse and the fact that everything is not yet settled in this area. Whatever the reason(s) for this imbalance. I mentioned the gift as compensation for forgetting to associate them. Or the gift we see in the accounts, as Mr Friart rightly pointed out. These are gifts to compensate for the costs of purchasing too high shares. We saw it well in EDF's accounts. Or any other reason. Legally, we're here in front of a knot. We need to amend the bill and recalculate the 2016 contribution allocation keys to integrate part-time, Tihange 1, Doel 1 and Doel 2. Sixth problem: the white year, no longer for the allocation contribution, but for the Doel 1 and Doel 2 fees. The opinion of the Council of State and the opinion of CREG raised a difficulty in interpreting the fee set out in Article 4.2 of the Act of 31 January 2003. It was re-discussed in committee on the occasion of this project. Article 4.2 states that: "The owner of the Doel 1 and 2 nuclear power plants shall, from 2016 until 2025, pay to the Federal State an annual fee in return for the extension of the period of permission for industrial electricity production. The 2016 first instalment relates to either the 2016 extended operation or the 2015 extended operation." This means, according to the Council of State, from 5 July for Doel 1 and from 1 December for Doel 2. In the text that I have presented to you, Madam Minister, I am still referring to February 15, but the date of July 5 must be taken into account in Option 2. I did not receive the final opinion of the Council of State until this morning. As the Council of State states on page 11, "the fee is a consideration for the extension". As soon as there is an extension, there must be a fee. We are therefore tempted to say that Option 2 should be applied. I make this assumption because the minister is not responding. However, the explanatory memorandum to the Act of 22 June 2016 suggests that option 1 should instead be retained. Minister, what is the right option? In fact, whatever option is chosen, there is a loss of profits for the State budget. In Option 1, there is no fee for the extended operation for the relevant months of 2015, from 5 July for Doel 1 and from 1 December for Doel 2. In Option 2, there was a problem in 2026 with the operation-related extension payment for 2025, since the Act only provides for a payment until 2025. No extension operating payments will be made for 2025. In conclusion, this problem number 6, whether it is option 1 or option 2, there is a shortfall of €20 million for the State. That, Madam Minister, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is the six problems identified in the form of a tree. These are purely legal problems and the coherence between the Minister's remarks. I repeat, I am not going to repeat the whole debate here on gifts, on the extension itself. We have already spoken. But I hope that, when you come to the gallery here earlier, you will take time, point by point, to respond to these elements. And if you don't, I'll interrupt you. I would already like to say that, Mr President, so that we can have an answer to each of these points. It is essential that you are not just here to defend the nuclear, the gifts, the extension that you grant, but also to enlighten anyone who will read the text about all these uncertainties. These are even more than uncertainties. These are inconsistencies between two points which you yourself made in committee and which I have referred to here around the six points which I have identified. I therefore look forward to your reply on each of the points, and I will not fail to bounce back in the debate that will take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u117	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the debate is already long. A number of points have already been raised, and I would like, as far as I am concerned, to address directly the opinion of the Council of State following the amendments tabled a few days ago, in particular Amendment No 24, which again validates – I am sorry to tell you, Mr Friart – the fact that Saint Nicolas has passed by offering a gift worth several tens of millions of euros for nuclear operators. Now, we are certain, and I hope that the colleagues of the majority are, as well, that there is a white year for Doel 1, Doel 2 and Tihange 1. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, the government that we have to control – this is our role – proposes that we vote tomorrow on a bill that makes a gift worth tens of millions of euros to Electrabel. And this government that decided to increase the VAT on electricity, because, according to him, it created a budgetary problem decides to also offer millions of euros to Electrabel. That's the reality! With regard to this gift to Electrabel, it must be acknowledged that the minister has surpassed herself in committee to try to hide it and that her demonstration was fantastic, when she dared to say that the calculation of the allocation contribution relates to the year in which it is collected and not to year N – 1 and that she added that the division of this axis between Electrabel and EDF is nevertheless made on the basis of the capacities installed in year N – 1. Madam Minister, you were making a nice compote! You took pears, year N figures for the calculation of the contribution, and you took apples for the distribution between EDF and Electrabel. In your opinion, the production figures for year n are not taken, but for year N-1. You have tried to make us swallow this indigestible compote and I hope that you will hold another position today because neither the majority nor the opposition liked this dish. Nor did the Council of State, which in its opinion on Amendment No 24, which I tabled mention the following: "According to the draft law, this tax is calculated on the basis of nuclear production in year N-1, so that for 2016, it is therefore calculated in principle on the basis of production in 2015". Thus, by speaking in this way, the Council of State confirms that the fanciful version of the Minister of Energy, according to which the tax voted in 2016 concerned the nuclear production of 2016 and not that of 2015, is not on the road. This version is therefore well swept away by the Council of State. Mr Wollants, you made it clear! Let's go back to the time hole of several million euros! The Conseil d'État, in its first opinion, states that "it is necessary to establish in this case that an ad hoc allocation contribution is introduced for 2016 which is due from operators and certain companies, but that three nuclear power plants are not subject to it. However, these plants are in a comparable situation in that they are also responsible for the commercial activity of industrial electricity production by fission of nuclear fuels. The application of the formulas which are claimed to be the basis for fixing the amount should bring a much higher amount if these plants were indeed taken into account. From this point of view, the difference therefore constitutes an advantage granted by means of State resources to the undertakings concerned." I quote the Council of State. In its opinion that we are officially receiving this morning, the Council of State adds: "CREG points out that this extension for each of these plants took place only in the course of 2015, so that the fee payable can only relate to that part of the year 2015 which is covered by the extension. There is therefore no justification for disregarding the contribution of Doel 1, Doel 2 and Tihange 1 to the distribution of industrial electricity production before the extension takes place". To conclude, therefore, that the Council of State adds that the extension to the three Doel 1, Doel 2 and Tihange 1 reactors should lead to an adjustment of the overall amount of the allocation contribution for 2016. Minister, this time hole, the opposition denounces it! She denounces him but doesn't invent anything! It is based on the opinion of the energy regulator and the Council of State, quite simply. Frankly, you have no choice but to recognise and assume that you have signed an agreement with Electrabel which is unfavourable to the interests of the Belgian State. You are in fact trying to justify an amount of 130 million which is in no way the result of a scientific calculation but rather of an agreement with Electrabel. Besides, like the Council of State, we ask you today to give us a credible demonstration of your calculation of 130 million. We tried, in committee, to find out that amount. How it was developed, we do not know! We didn't get an answer. The additional arguments made today by the Council of State and by the written opinion of the CREG, which we heard on 29 November, are quite specific. Give us this credible demonstration of your calculation of the 130 million! Don't come to tell us, as in committee, that the figures from the 2014 CREG report served as the basis for calculation! And to these figures which calculate the theoretical operating margin of the plants, you applied the rate of unavailability of the plants for 2015 because, listen carefully, first, the figures of the CREG 2014 already contained a rate of unavailability that you do not remove before adding your own rate of unavailability for 2015. So you add two rates of unavailability! On this diet, it's a real gift! We knew that your government was having trouble calculating, and that's another fine proof! We're adding up dividends, actually. Secondly, your rate of unavailability for 2015 is not correct and should be much lower as you exclude from the calculation of this rate, three reactors that have turned, a brilliant calculation, indeed, that makes the nuclear operators happy. So the white year exists! Therefore, Madam Minister, while the hole for 2016 is confirmed by both the CREG and the Council of State, you owe it to the citizens of this country to tell us now how much the loss of profits for the Belgian state budget for 2016. Are these ten, twenty, thirty or forty million euros? This can even be beyond. Minister, I expect you today to provide the actual figures. Citizens have the right to know them and we ask for a little honesty and transparency. As regards the failure to take account, in particular of Tihange 1, in this year's contribution - I wanted to support Mr Nollet's arguments - would it not be a gift to EDF which holds 50% of Tihange 1? We can ask ourselves the question. This means that an attempt will be made to ensure that the operator who has not signed the Doel 1 and 2 agreement will refrain from any recourse to this nuclear tax. Without doing anything, EDF received compensation. Minister, on the method, there is a lot to be said. You did not involve the regulator in the drafting of the bill. It's normal that you didn't, since the bill was drafted by Electrabel. But quite abnormal if the government and the Minister of Energy were to do their job properly. In addition, the information revealed during the CREG hearing was staggering. It appears that the government had tabled a bill on our benches which did not guarantee that the Belgian State was in a position to collect the nuclear rent. The CREG has demonstrated this through the hearing and the amendments it has suggested. Colleagues, what's going on? This government negotiates the nuclear tax with the taxpayer. He's the only one in Belgium. And since the taxpayer is not stupid, he even makes sure that he does not have a legally-concrete piece of legislation. It can be understood by Electrabel, but the minister's attitude is inexcusable. How many mistakes have been made in this nuclear issue? Mistakes that endanger hundreds of millions of euros while the state budget is in a bad position, we have seen at length yesterday. The CREG has therefore become aware of this bill, which costs several hundred million euros, while it was already on the benches of parliament. Remember: we heard the CREG tell us that she had discovered it when it was already deposited. However, the regulator is an organ of parliament. Fortunately, we did our job by demanding an audition of the CREG, which made our colleagues in the majority uncomfortable. They had to introduce amendments to the bill in order to guarantee a minimum of legal certainty. I am thinking, in particular, of the deadlines which did not stand in the way when it came to forming certain observations or making decisions. However, I would point out that the majority rejected some of the amendments proposed by CREG. It is not necessary to look very far to know the reason for this: these amendments clearly ran counter to Electrabel's financial interests. Since the federal government is tied to the operator with respect to this nuclear tax made in Electrabel, the majority has not moved an iota. Indeed, let us remember, the document we received was initialled with the Engie-Electrabel Convention. It is therefore a sad picture that this government gives us subject to the financial interests of a private company rather than to the general interest. It must be said that the budgetary situation of the executive is so catastrophic that you are no longer a few tens of millions more or less. Madam Minister, is it not worth defending the general interest? Do you find that good governance inspires your way of doing things? We can conclude that we are witnessing a historic day, since we are voting a tax negotiated with the taxpayer concerned, whose text was initialled by the boss of Engie, Gérard Mestrallet, and that of Electrabel, Philippe Van Troeye. We are indeed in what is called "the fiction of the legislator" since the law has not been realized here, but elsewhere, in an office. All I have to do is recite the Council of State today on page 11 of its opinion. He said: "As the Council of State (legislative section) has previously observed, the normative function cannot be exercised by means of agreements concluded with the undertakings concerned and the legislator is not bound by this agreement". Here, obviously, the majority is bound by this convention and we are moving forward in that direction. This nuclear tax is a pure product of the Michel-Electrabel government, which has been trying to make us swallow its energy policy salads for the past two years. We can only reject this way of being imposed by one of our taxpayers the amount of the tax that it will pay, whereas the nuclear tax required by the previous governments amounted to 550 million euros, validated three times by the Constitutional Court. You will now, by approving this bill, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, change the legal paradigm. We will therefore vote against this bill, but we still expect clear, precise and, above all, credible answers from the minister. The questions that have been asked deserve answers and I expect at least consideration in these answers. Madam Minister, I insist. Like the Council of State, we want a credible demonstration of the calculation of this tax for 2016 and we also expect you to finally give the figures of the time hole in this tax, given the non-taxation of Doel 1 and 2 and Tihange 1 in 2015. We do expect the majority to fill this time gap before voting on this bill. In conclusion, I would like to return to a statement by Mr Friart earlier, when he spoke to the wolf about the risks of blackout or undoing. Mr Friart, at the beginning of your speech, I did not cut you off, but how many times did this happen? Zero times. If you had the right readings - I know this is the case but you didn't read them at the right time - the Minister of Energy said in November 2016, it's not far, on BX1: "In case of cold, we may have to activate the release plan" and, since then, she again mentioned, in the newspaper Le Soir in July 2016, the possibility of a new energy shortage. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government and colleagues of the majority, beyond this project, I am truly calling for work on the energy transition. We asked him. Projects are on the table. We have tabled texts. It is in this context that we must work. We lost two years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u118	Colleagues, we will suspend the meeting for three minutes for technical reasons. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u119	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u120	Mr President, I come back to what Mr de Lamotte said about the blackout. The risks were extremely present. The press reported it sufficiently in 2013. She talked about it again in 2014. There may not have been a blackout, but we really came close. It should be noted that since Mrs Marghem was a minister, there has never been any mention of blackout, either in reality or in the press. I would also like to quote Professor Ernst, who spent a few weeks at the RTBF, in order to put some things down at the level of the debate we had. In my opinion, he's a very objective person. He's a scientist. He has another view of the problem than what was said here by the opposition. I would like to quote some of its terms, because they are worth being retained. He believes that "the minister has rather negotiated with Electrabel the nuclear tax. There is a fixed part of 150 million (it is after degression) on the units of Tihange 2 and 3, Doel 3 and 4. The producer must pay at least this amount, or 38% of the profits. The important thing is that this was negotiated at a time when the price of electricity was higher than now. This amounts to capturing more than 60% of Electrabel's profits this year. So there is no gift to Electrabel," he explained, questioned by RTBF. He also added, about Electrobel, "I have the impression that they will no longer make any profit for ten years with their nuclear fleet." He concluded by saying that he "finds out this legend of the government on his knees in front of Electrabel, who takes his pockets and steals the state. It doesn't hold the road." I wanted to report it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u121	Mr President, I hear Mr Friart's remarks about the risk of blackout. I referred to the Minister's statements in November and July. She didn't say what you're saying, Mr. Friart! She referred to the risk of discharge during this period. I wanted to call him back. You do not have good readings or your readings are incomplete. As far as the scientific statements are concerned, we will see what happens. As far as I am concerned, I can tell you that the nuclear contribution, at the time before Mrs Marghem's, was a lump sum that went back to the state coffers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u122	At the level of relief, some measures can indeed always be taken by the minister, which is a good thing. But I insist that it is no longer blackout, which was not the case three years ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u123	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u124	We've had a lot of luck! That said, Professor Ernst's words must be taken with much more intelligence, much more precision. In any case, they are much more interesting than certain statements made by the opposition today, which were sometimes at the pâquerettes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u125	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we will have to vote on this draft tomorrow, but do we really have to vote on it? Because I have the impression that it was an unelected super-legislator who approved this text. Finally, all of us, miserable little elected parliamentarians, must we push the button again? We, who obviously have no power over our super colleague Gérard Mestrallet, who initialled the text well before us. Does that still make sense? I ask the question in general, not just about this project. When we see that the extended criminal transaction law was drafted by the lawyers of Mr. Chodiev, a member of your party, when we see that the law on notional interests was drafted by the tax commission of the FEB, and when we find that the law on excess profit regulation was drafted by PwC, one of the Big Four...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u126	Mr Van Hees, I would have interrupted you if you were in the gallery, but you are not. Mr President, can you ask the speaker to remain in the debate? For now, I hear everything but the subject of the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u127	Mr President, can you confirm that the floor is open?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u128	Yes. But not completely. Go on, Mr. Van Hees!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u129	Mr President, I take note of this. Indeed, I am outside the scope of the discussion because this project, in particular, challenges me at the level of how it was written and decided. I link with other projects that have followed the same path. I was in the Patent Income Deductions Act that was drafted by the lawyers of the multinational pharmaceutical company GSK. We can still talk about the Carat tax law that was drafted by the diamond sector as well as the future law that will perhaps reform ISOC next year, the first version of which was drafted by a tax office. We learned this when we saw the properties of the Word document that contained it. And finally, this law that we must discuss and vote on tomorrow, which was drafted by Engie-Electrabel. Should we still vote if the minister's boss has already adopted it and initialled it? I wonder. If the minister feels obliged to repeat throughout the interview that she is not sold to Electrabel, it is perhaps that her policy, given the composition of her cabinet at a certain time, raises questions and legitimately prompts us to think the opposite. These are the consequences of this policy. The observation is simple, Electrabel has never paid as little as this year, since the nuclear tax exists. They paid only $200 million in 2015 and will pay only $160 million in 2016, thanks to an advantageous but highly questionable and contested calculation, which puts the extended reactors out of play.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u130	Foremostly, the price of electricity has never been so low. At the time, it was 80 euros the megawatt and now it is 35. I don't know if you know each other in trade, but imagine a trader who should sell all year on sale. After six months, he puts the key under the doormat. The same applies to Electrabel. From the moment its turnover is halved, as the price of electricity is halved, it can no longer contribute in the same way as before. It's just a matter of common sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u131	First, I think that the tax that is imposed on Electrabel is far less than its profits. In fact, I can't explain how the 38% was set. Second, when Electrabel fails to run its old and dangerous power stations, it is rewarded by the non-payment of the tax. Finally, this bill, which the majority is about to vote for, represents once again an "Electrabel gift". It may be a coincidence if we vote at the same time as the budget and three days before Santa's passage! With this budget, everyone will have to tighten the belt except, once again, this multinational which we know to include among its shareholders people like Albert Brother or the Boel family and liberals on the board of directors. I hope it's a coincidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u132	There are no more speakers. The government has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u133	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your very well-nourished statements as usual. I will also begin as I am used to with the first speech, especially since with the amount of humour that we know him, Mr Bert Wollants explained to all colleagues that he was going to project in his speech the way the law works, in order to answer all the questions that would be posed by each other, as they have already been in committee. All this has already been covered along and wide in committee. The added value, the novelty, is obviously the response of the Council of State to the amendments tabled by the opposition in plenary a few days ago. Mr Wollants recalled the fundamentals. Frankly, we should at least – and I say it for all the speakers – repeat, whenever it comes to tax matters, – I know at least one here who knows this kind of matter very well, Mr. Van Hees – the fundamentals of a tax. Who is the taxpayer? What is the tax base chosen and how much? How is it formed? Who is the taxpayer? It is the companies that hold a share in electricity production in that country. What's the plate? It is precisely this share or, in any case, this capacity for electricity generation that is assessed according to the constitutional agreement – and here I feel it will be a bit problematic but I will say it like that in the light of everything we have said – which is evaluated over time, that is, it is evaluated in multi-N. We will try to speak the same language. The contributory capacity assessed over time is precisely what the companies concerned are able to generate as over-profit through production and time. This contributory capacity over time is assessed in the light of all the years in which nuclear power plants have had a de facto monopoly position created by the rarity of the product they placed on the market and have been able to generate an overprofit which must be taxed. As far as I know, it was taxed only in 2008 when these plants had been amortized for a little longer. They were already amortized within 20 years of being put into industrial service: in 1995 for Doel 1 and Doel 2; in 2015 for those that came to the nuclear park. This means that, already for a long time, this surplus profit could have been taxed, which was only done in 2008. Of course, as we looked at the contribution capacity over time, we were able to raise at that time, especially since the electricity prices were very high, by taxing 250 million in 2008 on the basis of an agreement reached at that time with the nuclear operators knowing that at the time, the contributing capacity or in any case the over-profit of the plants had been estimated at 750 million. So it was 30% of the 750 million that began to be taxed by the distribution contribution, at the time only basic, of 2008. In 2011 - 2012, a complementary allocation contribution of 350 million was added, depending on the availability of the plants. This also allowed the other operator (which is not a nuclear operator in the sense of producer but in the sense of ownership of shares in Electrabel, i.e. EDF) to be subject to a degression which would apply to its profits because the costs which it retains (and the way in which it evaluates its profit or surplus) of the operation by Electrabel of the plants in which it owns shares are charged to it on a flat-rate basis and are proportionately higher for that operator in view of the shares which it provides than for the operator Electrabel. This wish was heard in the context of the current configuration since, at their request, in view of the low price of electricity, we have introduced a greater degression for operators, taking into account the fact that EDF requested that this degression be greater in its head. But we also wanted to maintain fairness between taxpayers, which is why degression is applied to both operators. Having said that, I return to the discussion on N and N-1. I would like to go into these considerations, but I don't know if they really help us. You show it by doing semantic cutting. Not that I consider you to have cut phrases, truncated songs, given phrases that I have not spoken, but out of their global context, they do not account for the real problem we are facing. We have taxpayers, we have a taxable base, we have an amount. How is the amount fixed? The amount is generated by holding shares in industrial electricity production. There is not only the quota in question, but there is the fact of holding it as a taxpayer. The tax is fixed on the year in which it is to be paid. To say how much the tax we're going to claim in order to capture the surplus profit, we rely on several clues. I can even read passages where I say so. I would like to take this opportunity to answer the question of 38%. It is beyond the 2015-2016 intermediate years that are lumped out. This is the formula of the percentage of the income margin less cost. If this percentage is higher than the minimum, it is taken. [[Why 38%?]] It was Mr Colmant's entire hearing that explained to us, as we have done in the past with the 30% of 750 million in 2008, that the rent of rarity, the nuclear rent, in this case the nuclear overprofit, is taxed around 30% in economic doctrine for monopolistic operators. So, you know well that with degression, that 38% becomes 32%. With this amount, we revolve around what we usually do in these matters. So there is a clear explanation. It came from the scientific economic doctrine, which was communicated at the hearing by Mr Colmant, who was heard on several occasions. I'm going back to the amounts. The questions obviously relate to lump sums. The amounts linked to a formula are fairly clear amounts, of course, since they are linked to the price of electricity, which everyone agrees has decreased. You had tabled, remember, an amendment to set the 2015 allocation contribution at 280 million instead of 200 million in 2015. Implicitly, it showed that you accepted the idea that electricity prices were lower, not because you were forced to, but because it was a reality. So we could no longer afford to tax the surplus profit at the level we had done in the years 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014. How do we look? We use several clues. [[Firstly, the 30%, the proportionality index, more or less.]] Secondly, what did or did not work in the previous year's nuclear park? What is the reality? Thirdly, what is the index of proportionality that will be chosen to fix it, in relation to the calculation of the CREG? You remember that the starting point was the 2015 CREG report, which examined the 2014 nuclear production and updated all the data it is constantly studying, in order to account for the nuclear benefit. In this, the CREG does not talk about over-profit, but about all the benefit. She's doing a calculation looking back. "They have produced as much, and now their profit margin, or in any case their overall profit, amounts to 434 million." That is why you see in the explanatory memorandum, both in 2015 and 2016, the gross amount of the contribution as fixed, and the starting point, on the basis of these proportionality indices, in 2015 and 2016. This amounted to 297 million gross in 2015 and 247 million gross in 2016. This is the contribution of nuclear distribution. For Doel 1, Doel 2, Tihange 1, there are specific mechanisms. It's not about a tax. This is something quite special. As you know, we have had discussions with the Council of State, from the beginning, since Tihange 1 on the qualification of royalty. Indeed, it is specifically intended to take account of the extension of these plants, which, in order to be extended, must make very high investments of youth which must be taken into account. When Mr. Colmant presented his report, he made comparisons with the results of the mechanisms for Tihange 1, Doel 1, Doel 2 and the allocation contribution. He told us that all this was more or less within the same range, taking into account the youth investments that are being made. It is then that some of you have intervened to say that the variable formula of Tihange 1 does not pose a problem since it takes into account investments. The question was the same for both. The amounts of the investments for Doel 1 and Doel 2 are fixed in the Convention. But, in reality, the amount of investment for Tihange 1 was included in the annexes to the Convention. You know that very well. It is a little lower than the one for Doel 1 and Doel 2 which are twins and that, by definition, there are two. The problem remains the same. It is not because youth investments reach a certain amount that the mechanism changes in nature, that the problems are different. Why such amounts? Why are they not less important? Have we not counted the costs twice, etc.- Is that what you're saying? These are specific mechanisms. For Tihange 1, a variable formula without floor was chosen. And for Doel 1 and Doel 2, given the low ratio of the Tihange 1 fee, we preferred a package. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u134	Let me continue. This package is worth year by year. While the formula for Tihange 1 was specifically configured by looking at the production of year N-1. I sent you a painting. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u135	I'll give it to you, ma'am. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u136	I didn't just send it to Mr. Nollet. I'd like to send it to everyone. However, during our committee work, Mr Nollet suggested – I repeat his words – that I table a table just before the plenary session. What I did. So I sent him right before the first intervention. But this painting can obviously be sent to everyone. It shows the revenue for the State from 2015 to 2026. You see the specificity of Doel 1 and Doel 2's royalty, which is paid for the first time in 2016, like Tihange 1. These two are paid in 2016. It is at the time when they are paid that they are de facto excluded from the allocation contribution. That's what I wanted to tell you. Imagine that operators do not pay the fee. This can happen. What are we doing? Let's imagine a trial. We can still sue. It's not a problem to sue. But we still need to have the opportunity to react. I think that we should apply to them, at that time, the distribution contribution, as to everyone else. And since the royalty exempts them from the allocation contribution, the fact of not paying it does not put them in the position of being able to be exempt. This is subject to possible procedures. In 2016 is made the first payment for Doel 1, Doel 2, while the beginning of the extension date of... Madame Lalieux, concretely, according to the Council of State that does not like (...) it is true and I readily recognize it, which says, for me Doel 1 is not extended until July 6, 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u137	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u138	On some points, the CREG and the Council of State share the same view. On others, they do not agree. I'm not going to start getting into the details. I am not going to start criticising the positions of the Council of State and the CREG between them. The fee for Doel 1 and Doel 2 is paid in 2016. The one for Tihange 1 is paid in 2016. In the table, you see that for Doel 1 and Doel 2, this will generate 20 million until 2025, while the fee for Tihange 1 is planned until 2026. The formulae of the variable allocation contribution obviously vary according to the evolution of the electricity price. Why 2026? Because even if we came out of nuclear power in 2026, and there is no more electricity produced by nuclear power, there will still be taxpayers holding shares in industrial electricity production. From day to day - this is what the Council of State did not like - we do not push on a button, we do not close the door by saying "there is no more power plant". There are still power plants, but simply - as I have always said - they can no longer inject electricity into the circuit. You therefore have here a very objective picture of what is paid, expected, with possible means of constraint, in the state funds until 2025-2026.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u139	(...) We should have this picture
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u140	It's being distributed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u141	As we are going to talk about it a lot, can we attach it as an annex to the report that will be made of the session? That's all I want to ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u142	I don't know if we're going to talk a lot about this painting because I know you by heart and you'll think once again that it's a new element. Don't be upset! This table only synthesizes the expected performance of this set, i.e. from 2015 until 2026, the allocation contribution and, from 2016 until 2025-2026, the royalties of extended power plants. That's where we're at. With regard to Mrs Lalieux's question about degression, we have taken the decision to take a package - indeed, the Council of State and the CREG say that it is possible for an executive to make political choices. I remind you that in the agreement reached in July 2015, you saw on the side of the 2015-2016 allocation contributions, the result of what is mathematically owed to the State on the basis of the 2006 Unused Sites Act. To this 200 million in 2015 were added, according to the government's budgetary choice, these 100 million. In 2016, $20 million was added to the 130 million. You should know that Electrabel paid in one time in 2015 the 120 million on the Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations. I will take up what was said by Mr. Benoît Friart, because I don't think everyone was here. When, having three minutes, we went to pick up a sandwich, Mr. Friart pointed out that, during a radio program, Professor Ernst repeated that he considered that these nuclear power plants were no longer going to bring big profits to the operators and that what had been captured was really at the limit of the confiscatory.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u143	Then shut them up!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u144	Mr Nollet, that is not up to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u145	If the reasoning is correct and the tax is confiscatory, the teams are not obliged to extend. Do you think for a moment that, if Electrabel ever realized that it was turning the power plants to pure loss, it would continue? They're not crazy! It's not mercantilism.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u146	First of all, you're lending me words that I didn't make. I quoted someone else.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u147	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u148	Mr de Lamotte, you do not have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u149	He didn't say it was confiscatory. Otherwise, a well-born, normal operator would stop these nuclear power plants.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u150	We agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u151	He explained that it was at the limit of the confiscatory, because the costs are 30, tax 4 and electricity is sold between 35 and 45. I remember that in La Meuse, a newspaper probably well known in Liège, he declared that I had bled them blank! It's probably excessive. Otherwise, Mr. Nollet, when you're bleeding white, you don't live anymore! But we really tried to calculate that at the tightest. We have taken into account - and we have never discussed it, since I have never heard you discuss these issues - as much as possible the fluctuations in electricity, especially at a time when the perception that we can have moved away from it. There is the buffer technique found in the annexes with an illustrative example and another element that has never been addressed, and yet fundamental, that emerges from the whole text, namely the limitation in the formula of the impact in the loads of nuclear supplies. This means that nuclear supplies, which are the next topic that we will certainly indaguer in the coming months, are subject to regular updating. Recently, the Commission on Nuclear Provisions has reviewed the discount rate. And, therefore, necessarily from the calculations that I have seen appearing and that I have not yet screened, there would be money to be correctly handed over in order to adequately provide for the dismantling in 2025, especially in view of the extension of certain power plants. The impact of the provisions has been calibrated so as not to unduly increase the formula and empty it of its meaning, of its ability to produce a distribution contribution. Surprisingly, I have never heard of this in committee. It's okay. We can talk about it. But this shows that the government's concern, contrary to what is said, has always been, and certainly here, to capture as legally as possible without being confiscating the current over-benefit as assessed over several years, knowing that the price of electricity has fallen sharply and that some plants no longer contribute to the distribution contribution since they are prolonged and are in a separate regime. I heard earlier that we should have closed Doel 1 and Doel 2. It's an opinion I've heard a lot of times. However, we are not at all convinced. We have two elements. We have seen, first of all, again recently in November, tensions in the wholesale electricity markets where electricity prices in our country were 6 to 7 times higher than those in Holland and Germany. So it didn't allow us to buy electricity that was scarce and sold at a very high price and be in line with our needs between 5:00 p.m. and 8:00 p.m. That is why the government considered it appropriate, avoiding a very significant tension in terms of adequacy, that we have extended Doel 1 and Doel 2. The second reason why this extension is good (the royal decree will come when this set is completed in January) is that the fee generates resources for the energy transition. I'd like to close Doel 1 and Doel 2. But I need it, and other colleagues have explained how it was important for us to have a minimum of energy independence and why, in doing so, we managed to avoid delestages and other inconveniences when all over the press in 2014, it was all about that. In addition, there is a sum to the key that we can use as part of the energy transition for innovative electricity generation and storage, which is very much necessary for this energy transition. The clues that you mentioned, Ms. Lalieux, are used and the CREG would have liked to have the one that she had advocated in her reflection on Tihange 1's cost verification and revenue. At the time, when we finalized this bill, we retained the same clue that Roland Berger eventually retained, that is, 0.0095. It's not the same as the CREG. This means that there are several opinions and that the CREG has issued its opinion, others have also done so, which have justified the State's point of view. It's no coincidence. This is part of the reflexes used by people who know the same techniques and determine the index to be applied in some cases. I think that all this can really be explained calmly and that what matters is, in fine, what's going to get into the state coffers. Ms. Lalieux insisted on this. While revenues were much higher in the past, electricity prices were so high that with the accumulation of the overprofit for years, since the depreciation of the power plants, the nuclear overprofit had accumulated and it was adequately captured by these basic and complementary distribution contributions, just at the limit - the Constitutional Court rightly pointed out - of the confiscatory. So we had to change. That is what we have done in trying to take a formula that is closest to reality. You also talked about the investigative power of the CREG. We had a discussion in committee on this. We will never agree, it seems very clear to me. The Government believes that the weight of CREG is very important, as it can set authority, as would a contribution controller who would not receive evidence of the professional duties that, according to its expertise, it has relied on the various work that it has done with nuclear operators for so many years, in terms of costs and revenues in the context of the mission entrusted to it. So there is no fear to be had in our opinion. It is not the investigative powers, which are probably somewhat excessive in relation to the usual work of CREG, that will be as effective as what it can already do now, namely to set authority. Trust me, we are already at the limit of the confiscatory and we have to find ourselves reorganizing in the company and to move more and more in the context of the energy transition! It is quite clear that they will certainly not be playing with fire and being imposed standards of costs and revenues that would not be in line with reality and will certainly collaborate properly with the CREG. It is not the investigative powers, again, when everything is fine and everything can go well with a minimum of pressure, which necessarily give relevant elements of knowledge of the file for the work that is entrusted to the CREG. You said that I wasn't so observant when I raised the VAT on electricity again. This represents an extra big package, or 15%, for all invoices. I've already recognized him. However, remember that this was a provisional one shot measure for two years. The provisional can of course become definitive. But that was not the government's choice. However, this issue will need to be addressed. In fact, electro-intensive companies are demanding an energy standard, and they are faced with high electricity consumption and also with lower competitiveness compared to other countries around us. The VAT is of course negligible for them, since they are deflating it. I believe that we must make an effort on ourselves, as I said to my regional colleagues. This must be done together, it is not the federal government alone. You are right, he is competent for VAT, but for the rest, other taxes are added to the convenience and come from other levels of power. We must make an effort together to find a solution for the residential consumer. In this connection, I would like to tell you, to supplement your information, that the four energy ministers of this country will meet on 30 January to present each other. Not only will we present our wishes, but we will also present our ways of seeing collaboration in the development of an energy vision and pact. That is the case for the energy transition, since Mrs Lalieux also spoke about it! I pass Mr Friart's speech, who made the best intervention. I believe for the time being in this first set, Mr President, that I have already answered all the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u152	Thank you, Madam Minister. I think some members will want to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u153	Thank you, Madam Minister, for your explanation. We therefore have a new concept, Mr Friart, which you will be able to put in one of your interventions: multi-N. Already that it was thought that the explanation was not very clear, now we are not taxing a year but several years! That sounds crazy to me, but maybe it's 7:00 p.m., we've all worked a lot. Maybe that's it? What is catastrophic is that it will not enlighten people who will have to read and understand the law because now, Mr.Lachaert, we have a multi-N. I don't know if you know what it is, otherwise you can always explain it to me. I will of course not agree with your explanation of multi-N or with your explanation, which keeps telling us that there is no exemption for plants that have changed their diet. Moreover, if we first read the convention in its Article 2 on Doel 1 and Doel 2, Madam Minister, it does not cover the whole of 2016. It covers 2016 only from 6 July, the date that we all signed. It seems to me that a profit is taxed based on an accounting year, namely N – 1. Moreover, CREG has always done its calculations on the basis of N – 1. She did it to you in 2014 for 2015 and in 2015 for 2016. Minister, the multi-N does not hide the exemption. It seems to me that you have failed to explain to us that there was no tax exemption there and tens of millions of euros in gifts at Electrabel, let alone through your convention, which only starts on 6 July. I'm still puzzled about the year 2026! If you are in year N and the power plants stop in 2025, they will no longer produce electricity in 2026. Mr Wollants, will they still produce electricity in 2026 if they are stopped in 2025?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u154	No!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u155	For once, I agree with you, Mr. Wollants. But then, since they no longer produce electricity in year N, why are there money in year 2026 on the table (unless we are in year N – 1). Mr. Clarinval smiles nicely. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u156	They keep spinning a little bit. They're electrical production fumes! It's a little extra, says Mr. Lachaert! I laugh at it because we have had so many debates without reply or clarity that, as a result, I am convinced, and even more so after the explanations received, of the small picture and the rereading of the convention, that this bill (like the two previous and the next one, we will come back to it) makes beautiful gifts to a multinational, which is in a monopoly situation, which does not take into account the general interest and that of consumers but rather the particular interest since you are feet and fists linked. I'm going to 38%. I answer you on everything since you answered all my questions without convincing me, minister. Last year, you asked for 46%. You never said that 46% were unimaginable, disproportionate, vexatious. Economic doctrine, what does that mean? While we have a regulator that calculates and accesses all documents, which agrees for 46%. The doctrine of which country? We don't even know what the reality is of those 38%. As for the cost from which these 38% are calculated, you have never demonstrated it. You talked about Professor Ernst. You follow him when he does not have access to all the numbers of Electrabel and EDF but you do not follow the regulator who has access to him. I don't understand. We are paying a regulator, but I understand that while it is of great use to Parliament, it is of very little use in making laws and much less in recovering the State's dues from almost monopoly companies. You're talking about the problem that the closure of Doel 1 and Doel 2 would have represented if we had kept the trajectory of the previous government. The problem we had in November was the power plants. They are chaotic at the moment: they close, we don't know when they reopen, they announce it but they don't know how to do it, there are security problems. The problem with security of supply today is nuclear power plants, and that is not the rest. The rest, you set it to zero since by extending nuclear power plants, you give a very negative signal to those who would like to invest in other sources of energy. And then, as for your transition, and this is a strong appeal made by Mrs Dierick and Mr Lachaert – even on topical issues – the 40 million are placed in a La Poste account. It's still funny! Minister, you forget to create a fund. Until it is put in place, we will not be able to use these funds or select the projects. We're wasting time, Minister, just as you've already wasted two years. In total, Mr. Speaker, we know why this bill was initialled and signed by Mr.Mestrallet. Who are the great winners of the three bills that the majority voted for? It's obviously Electrabel and Engie. I find this regrettable for the energy future of our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u157	Mr President, it is absolutely clear that it is not an easy matter. When I see what is being said here and read what is being sent around via Twitter; I can only conclude that there is very little understanding for the way things have been done in recent years. Everything actually started in 2008, when different systems were mixed up to create a working system. There are three slopes and possibly a fourth slope, between which one should choose. But none of them are consistent with what is happening in practice. So perhaps it is a good thing that everyone reads all the lyrics thoroughly. I have just heard Mr Nollet ask whether it is a tax on income. I recommend that he read the judgment of the Constitutional Court. It says literally: "without taking into account the income or profits generated by production in the calculation of the tax debt'. That's a clear answer. I said that earlier, so that's not new.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u158	Mr President, my remarks will be very brief. What I have said in the rostrum is what the minister has said in committee. All I did was mention it. You are right to say that the Constitutional Court has issued opinions and has drawn a line that must be followed. It was not my point of view that I highlighted in the rostrum, but the contradictory statements of the minister, who said black, who said white. What's the correct version? Now you're telling me it's the Constitutional Court. But why not? Let her tell us, in this case, what is the correct version for each of the six points. That'll be enough for me. You have your answer, and that's very good. I note it in passing and will come back to the minister later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u159	Mr Nollet, that is all very well for me. I was just explaining how I think the whole file was built. This has been happening since 2008, several governments in a row. In addition, we have had a lot of discussions about whether it is wise to pass on the reduction in electricity prices, which makes a huge difference over time, when the nuclear interest rate is fixed. That seems to me to be both desirable and reasonable. One can argue that investments are being made in plants where fewer are being removed, while there may be alternatives. At the same time, we can see that with Ecolo we are pulling the same weight in, for example, giving EUR 100 million a subsidy to a waste incineration plant in Brussels. There is no doubt that Mrs Lalieux can tell us more about this. There is also a question of what is going on in this waste incineration plant. However, I am convinced that we are now in a transitional period. The energy vision is improbably important; and needs to be worked out. The power stations are there now, but we can't keep them open in the long term. A lifetime of 80 years, as with some plants in the United States, seems unlikely to me, but we can differ on this. It will be necessary to take steps here. Please, let us not make a story of it if gifts are given to Electrabel, Engie and Suez. Besides, I think Suez also has shares in the incinerator in Brussels that I just mentioned. Maybe we should change the story a little bit. It seems as if the level at which they speak has a clear impact on what is being told here. Let us remain consistent, both in terms of the contribution to the redistribution and in terms of energy policy in general. Then maybe we'll figure it out somewhere. Perhaps this will open up a debate in the Brussels Parliament on the green certificates and perhaps hold hearings, as Ecolo and N-VA had asked. In that case, we may also be able to take a step forward here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u160	On the assumption that the table is attached to our report, we can therefore talk about it without detailing it here. Nevertheless, I would like to make a preliminary remark. The table may correspond to your way of representing things but it does not have the force of law. Only the interpretation of the reading by the institutions or actors who will have to position themselves on this document is important. Nevertheless, this document confirms some of the problems I have identified. Electrabel, EDF, Engie are not philanthropists and they know how to count. You give the impression that you are just at the limit of the confiscatory and that you are close to a euro. But these people aren't idiots! They know how to count. If they do not have sufficient economic or financial interests to extend their activities, they will not. You cannot threaten them to extend their activities. They have done their calculations, they have checked if you have accepted the text they have provided and they have estimated that their activity is still very profitable, even if the overall turnover is lower this year. In addition, this year, Tihange 1 will also pose a problem due to the cost of the technical accident or error that deteriorated the concrete coating. It's going to cost them a lot, but that's their problem. If we are just looking at the text and if they themselves have drafted the text that you have tabled and that you are going to vote tomorrow, in any case as far as the majority is concerned, please be sure, Madam Minister, that is in their favour. It was my prerequisite. Excuse me, Mr. Friart. I didn't see you. You were behind my back calling.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u161	You have to be brief, Mr. Friart.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u162	It is often relevant.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u163	All this to say that, perhaps, Electrabel is spending difficult moments now. The price of electricity is very low. That is not why they will necessarily put the key under the doormat. I think, in any case, in any industry, in any trade, sometimes we have harder times. Electrabel certainly hopes that the price of electricity will rise. And if the price of electricity increases, if the profits of Electrabel increase, we will have a figure that will be much higher than the 177 million euros, hence all the interest of what has been negotiated by the minister and what makes it really a good contract for the government and for the country. As soon as the price of electricity rises, the country will have more resources. We can be sure of this in the coming years, since we are still in the medium term, over the next ten years and in the next ten years, the price of electricity will rise. We don't look at this in the short term. We're looking at this in the medium and long term.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u164	Mr Friart did well to correct his initial statement, because indeed it is calculated over the entire extension period. And if Electrabel does, it is because she knows very well that it is in her interest in the short, medium and especially long term. In any case, I believe that no more I than my opposition colleagues are going to cry about the unfortunate fate of Electrabel, who would be supposedly forced to prolong. Let's move on. Let's get back to problem by problem. Minister, problem 1: six or seven power plants? What are we holding now? If I look at your picture, it's seven power plants in 2015. Is it fair or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u165	Mr Nollet, as I said in committee, it is seven power stations and, then, there is the story of Tihange 1. And then you forgot to quote Mr Friart's words, who actually says that if we start like this, we're going to go into the details, we could have called Tihange 1 twice. Indeed, if one considers that the fee starts from 1 October 2015 to 31 December 2015 and that 2015 concerns the seven plants, it has been taxed twice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u166	What is the version to remember? All versions are good, but what is the one to remember? Is that version 6, version 7, or Mr. Friart's version?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u167	I would like to answer your questions and get into the game you want me to play. But what I'm seeing is what's going to get into the state coffers. I'm trying to get what's his. You don't think that's enough, but that's your point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u168	This is not the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u169	However, this is a substantive debate. What I want is money that goes into the state coffers and comes from the operation of nuclear power plants in this country. That's all I want to get.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u170	As the Minister says, with all sympathy for Mr Nollet, this discussion is not relevant. The amount to be recovered for 2016 was calculated on a flat-rate basis. For this calculation, the operation of the energy park was carried out in 2015, including all the periods during which it is stationary - because also the reactors whose service life has been extended have long been used as a reference. Again, it is a flat-rate calculation during the negotiations with Electrabel to reach the 130 million. It is based on the park of 2015 and it has been taken into account that power stations have been shut down for a while. It has received a flat-rate loan of 130 million. Until after the decimal point, taking into account exactly how active the power stations have been, that is not the point. There is a flat rate of 139 million euros for 2016. Punt.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u171	I'm sorry, Mr. Lachaert, I'm not talking about that at all. I'm not talking about the 130 million. I'm talking about 2015. I'm in the first problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u172	Here, it's 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u173	No! We'll come back to 2016-2026 later. My first question, which I am talking about here, concerns the 2015 allocation contribution. The Minister, on page 34, says it relates to the seven plants involved in 2014. In another place, she says this concerns only six power plants. My question is simply what is the correct version. Today, it seems to me that Mr Friart's version is the right one. Why not? I can accept that. I just need to know what parts of the 2015 report should be blocked. Mr Lachaert, so much the better if you tell me that today is the third version. But in the picture given here, it's the seven power plants. Just let me know what the right version is. It is still not inappropriate to ask what the basis of calculation is. There are three different versions in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u174	I think the Minister just said it. It is about the park in 2015 and it also took into account all the relevant periods of non-expansion and the periods during which the park has been stationary. We can keep coming back to the committee's report and what has or has not been said. I think today's version is pretty clear. In 2016 this is a flat-rate tax and this text covers the period from 2016 to 2026.. For 2015, there is another valuation based on year N of 200 million, which has also been paid. The only relevance to your 2016 question is that there is an agreement with the operators for a flat-rate amount of 130 million. For the following years, the amount is higher and it may even increase if, as Mr Friart says, profits increase and the price of electricity increases.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u175	I know it's disturbing for some who want everything to be explained to them until the last carat of the detail. In addition to what Mr Lachaert has just said, to which I fully agree, the allocation contribution for 2015 is voted and more than voted. Who could complain? She wasn't attacked, as I know. It is flat-rate and covers 2015. The plants for which a royalty will have to be paid are extended, i.e. they exceed the age of forty, but the royalty will be paid in 2016. I explained it earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u176	One can pretend not to understand the question, but I am not talking about the fee – which the sixth point addresses. I'm talking about the 2015 allocation contribution. I am quoting different comments that you have made in committee. Is the conclusion of this debate to recognize that we worked on this plant in 2015, as shown in the table? Your painting, Mr. Lachaert. Is that the seven, Mr. Lachaert?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u177	Yeah, that's it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u178	So we have an answer: it's seven.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u179	But I told you!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u180	We turned around the pot. They say it's seven. Okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u181	Mr Nollet, listen, I understand that you are asking questions in your tree, which is part of a logical system that belongs only to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u182	At least I played cards on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u183	I repeat that these aspects are irrelevant in our discussion, as Mr Wollants has explained to you. There's not a first, second, and third track. There is not what I said in paragraph 3 and then in paragraph 7. The focus of the question is: how much has the taxpayer been taxed in such a year and why? What is the tax base? What are the amounts that go into the State funds? That's what's important. You're telling me about 2015. We are currently debating a text covering the period 2016-2026. The 2015 contribution was voted and more than voted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u184	I have my answer for 2015. We don't have to talk about it anymore. The next problem is N or N –1. You are bringing here a completely new element. I was on a commission, but you were on it, too. It's not N-1 anymore, it's multi N.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u185	I will allow myself to interrupt a little to tell you that this is the assessment of contributory ability over time. This is therefore not the fixing in the fiscal year of the tax, or in relation to data for fiscal year N-1. N-1 is used, and the Constitutional Court repeats it. It is quoted by the CREG and by the Council of State. For the distribution among taxpayers, we look at the year before. It is the distribution between the various taxpayers that is used in N-1. There are, however, indices that are used to determine, at some point, the amount of the contribution, and I have explained this ten times in committee. This is in particular what the plants have produced, the 30 % around which we have to turn being the margin that can be captured when we speak of rarity rent. This is also the situation of electricity prices in the current context. That's all.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u186	So I think we have the answer to question number two: it's N-1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u187	No, I don't. I'm sorry, but I didn't say that. The whole thing's coming from there. It took hours and hours in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u188	So I didn't get it. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u189	The discussion is still there and the problem is that the Council of State is wrong there. It's very clear, N. To calculate a tax for N, one has to look at N -1 and that's just the hard thing to explain. It is a tax for N that is calculated virtually on data of N -1 because this is the only reference one has. One cannot act retroactively because one cannot judge for the past. Mr Wollants has just explained this. It's N anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u190	So, I have the answer. I was wrong and I apologize. The answer is N. That's the answer to problem #2. She's clarifying things. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u191	Yes, everyone is wrong except the majority or, in any case, the minister and Mr Lachaert, for now and perhaps even Mr Wollants! What I need is answers! The only thing I'm looking for is firm and definitive answers. I'm not judging. I said I'm not doing this again. The answer today is final, year N. I take up my colleague's question in 2026, if we tax N, when there will be no more production, how will we do it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u192	You know very well that the variable formula is based on revenues and costs and a percentage of the margin that emerges from lower-cost revenues. Where are we going to look for these lower-cost revenues? We'll obviously be looking for them in the year before. That is precisely the difference. This variable formula works like Tihange 1 without it being comparable since they are not identical diets. A royalty and a tax are two different things, but that's how it works. Who is the taxpayer? It is the one who holds a share in industrial electricity production. So I told you earlier, and I already told you before, that these people still hold in 2026, even if they can no longer inject electricity into the grid, shares in industrial electricity production, even if they do not earn any more from it. In reality, we're going to watch because they have to dismantle from 2025. They have to close the shop. They will no longer be able to introduce electricity into the grid in 2025. It was the same problem with Doel 1. That's what I said. Doel 1, actually, is still there. She continued to be taxed, Mr. Nollet. Remember, remember, remember, remember, She was there suspended in the air and continued to be taxed. A degression that arose from its unavailability for a period of time was simply taken into account, but it continued to be taxed as part of the allocation contribution, even when it stopped temporarily, simply because the extension law had not yet been passed. That's all.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u193	Ladies and gentlemen, this is an extremely technical debate. No longer ago than this afternoon, Mrs Onkelinx pointed out that, and rightly so, I think, by having this kind of debate in plenary, we are making a bit of a caricature of ourselves. And, in my opinion, rightly so. I do not want any member of the House to be prevented from saying what he means. But we must be careful that our debates do not become caricatures. I understand that there will be a technical debate in the committee. I don't blame anyone, but I feel like we're repeating ourselves many times!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u194	Mr President, I understand your point. But normally, when we come back from the Council of State with amendments which are extremely important and whose criticism is not neutral, whether we agree or not, we go back to the committee in Parliament and we take the time to talk about it again. It happens that this has not been possible. I even asked that we have twenty-four more hours to analyze things, but it wasn't possible. So, I adapt to the circumstances, without trying to shoot in length. However, I would like to have a reply on each of the points I have raised. The first two have just been emptied, and I have four left. I'm asking you to let me get to the end...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u195	I understand the President's imperative and that is why I have tried to globalize. You ask me for answers, I will grant you them, I will not deny you the answers you ask. But at the end of your four questions, I hope that you will be satisfied, even if the answers do not suit you, and that we may be able to move on.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u196	Mr President, we talked about this in the Conference of Presidents this morning when we discussed the organisation of work. My political judgment has been made for a long time and I have already expressed it on other occasions. Madam Minister, today I just want to have your final position on the six points which, in my view, were not consistent in your various comments in committee. I won't do anything else and I won't go back to anything other than those six points.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u197	If there is no alternative, we must continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u198	The following point: what is the event generating the distribution contribution, income or capacity?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u199	Generating act means the possession of a share in the industrial production of electricity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u200	So, that's capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u201	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u202	That's very good.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u203	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u204	You say you never said otherwise. I refer you to page 35, paragraph 3, of the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u205	Mr Nollet, I would like to have sentences cut out. But the context must be taken into account. As the President pointed out, we have had ample opportunity to talk about all this in committee. Today, you find contradictions, which I can admit. But I don't agree with you. In my opinion, there is no contradiction. I've already said what I'm telling you now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u206	I'm not trying to agree with you. So we can move on to the next question. For the white year and the allocation contribution, a capacity is taxed, not an income. Therefore, option 2 is included. With Option 2, the 2015 tax should be calculated on production capacity 2014, otherwise it would be inconsistent. In this case, the option is that for Tihange 1, Doel 1 and Doel 2, the 2015 period before extension is not covered by the allocation contribution. The reasoning is clear. We traced the tree. I therefore come to this conclusion with regard to point 4.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u207	We will try to answer the questions briefly. They are, in a way, relevant for the elaboration and application of the present design. If I understand correctly, ladies and gentlemen following the dossier, and Madam Minister, if necessary, improve me, it will also be 2015 capacity for 2015, but it is calculated on 2014. The effective production is the mirror for 2015. However, it is the same reasoning as for 2016, as it has been for years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u208	If we look at the painting... [[Laughs]] [[.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u209	Mr Nollet, I think what the Minister said is correct, namely that some reactors may have been paid twice, because a flat-rate valuation has been agreed, based on the 2015 capacity, but with a calculation based on the 2014 virtual data. In the meantime, the extension has come, for which new contributions have been requested. For Tihange 1 there may even be twice revenue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u210	So, given what has been said for the 2016 allocation contribution, in my view, there is an error in the table since we should also consider Tihange 1, Doel 1 and 2, for the period before. In the table, in column 2016, on the line "CR paid year Y".
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u211	This is not the bill. Here, we discuss the period 2016 to 2026.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u212	But I'm in 2016!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u213	I propose that we stop the discussion on 2015 and previous years because it has nothing to do with the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u214	But I'm in the column 2016!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u215	Yes, but you are constantly discussing 2015, etc. and this has nothing to do with this bill!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u216	That's right! And this text has already been widely discussed and voted on in plenary, Mr President. In 2015!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u217	Mr President, we have not had the right answers, particularly over the period before extension. We're trying an assembly that doesn't hold the road. All the more so, Madam Minister, that I did not get my answer because you were relatively short and you avoided the issue of the 2014 and 2015 unavailability rates. Which, again, confuses your calculation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u218	Colleagues, I know nothing about the dossier we are discussing, but I understand that it is the interest that will be paid between 2016 and 2026. [[Consultation]] To some extent, this is caricature. Here's a bunch of connoisseurs discussing the numbers. I really want to ask you to get to the essence of things. It's about the ten-year interest rate. Even I understand that it is starting to count from now on, that a reference to previous years has been used and that this reference has been decided in a previous period.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u219	We are still talking about an amount of EUR 130 million which must be entered into the State funds and which must be justified. For it is not all to say that we take these 130 million without justifying it in a coherent way. I simply ask that the justification should be on the road. I am told that this should be directed at the previous part. But that's not what the table says. I would like to move on to the next problem, but the one of the white year, point 4, remains whole. Point 5 concerns the 2016 contribution allocation key. Since, in this case, you use the allocation key referring to year N-1. But in year N-1, Doel 1 and 2 and Tihange 1 worked. Therefore, the allocation key must take into account what worked the previous year. Therefore, it goes without saying that Doel 1 and 2 and Tihange 1 are taken into account. It doesn't change the amounts anymore; it's the allocation key!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u220	The nuclear interest rate of year N is being captured. The Constitutional Court has clearly stated that it is the legislator's intention to keep the nuclear interest rate off the nuclear circuit during the year N. We agree on that. There are two variables that play to estimate the nuclear interest rate for year N. I'm talking very clearly about an estimate. One of these variables is the availability in the previous year. That will never be exact, but that is the best figure we have to be able to estimate next year's N. Of course, it is assumed that the nuclear interest rate is created by power stations that can contribute in year N. However, because Objective 1, Objective 2 and Tihange 1 do not contribute to this system in the year 2016 they do not contribute to another system. When it comes to the distribution between operators, it is true that the year N-1 is also used because these are the most recent data to make an estimate for the year N. Then there is another aspect, and that is also the most difficult aspect for me to understand, namely that the contribution capacity is estimated. In the past, the Council of Ministers has considered that the contribution capacity should be assessed over the relevant financial year and over the previous financial years. This contribution capacity is therefore not isolated in one year because the contribution capacity of previous years is also included in that exercise. I am not a lawyer, so you can say that this is legal mumbo jumbo, but so the Constitutional Court has accepted the scheme and so we must continue to apply it so that nuclear interest rates can be estimated as best as possible, even though it will never be an exact estimate or a tax on the exact income because this was never the intention of the scheme. However, the latter makes it difficult to understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u221	Nevertheless, it was very easy to understand, for which thanks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u222	I can follow the reasoning and also the very logic that is to remain consistent with what we have done, because the Constitutional Court has validated it so and if we do not, we take enormous risks. But in the past, when it was redistributed on different entities... Why is this important? Because EDF shares vary according to the calculation. But if you apply to the 2016 allocation contribution the same logic as has been done in the past not for the development of the amount, but for the distribution, you must consider part of the months that concern Tihange 1, Doel 1 and Doel 2. If you want to remain logical and consistent with the past. But you want to change that. I think that by changing this, you are taking a risk of inconsistency with the past. But all right, I got the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u223	I would like to say one more thing about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u224	Mr. Wollants, we were well on our way now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u225	I would like to say one more thing about it. There is a problem when Tihange 1 is added, because EDF's share is much larger there. If that plant is included in the table, this means that for the year 2016 Electrabel will pay much less and EDF will pay more. Then the question is whether this is correct in the light of the convention on which the regulation is based.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u226	That's my question. And that is why, Madam Minister, you did not reply on the part...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u227	Therefore, I think that if you include Objective 1, Objective 2 and Tihange 1 in the calculation for 2016 and thereby make EDF pay more and Electrabel less as a result of a convention concluded between the Belgian State and Electrabel, there will be a basis for EDF to challenge the scheme. There is no such basis in the current scheme, which does not include these plants.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u228	I share this reasoning and understand the risks and consequences. That is why, when I raised this issue, I also asked the minister what commitments and the written formula EDF accepted in relation to the potential recourse. I do not think that the minister has responded to this request and we are putting the answer on hold, waiting for all the information. The sixth problem concerns the fee for the white year. The table shows us a problem over a year, 2015 or 2026. A box remained white. Since Doel 1 and Doel 2 have already been extended for part in 2015, we should have something for both years. But we see nothing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u229	That's why we find in the green box Doel 1 and Doel 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u230	The Minister explained, and this is found in the legislation, that the fee is related to the extension. What is represented in the green represents another thing that is related to the basic tax. The fee is linked to the extension and we see nothing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u231	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u232	Doe maar! Doe maar! So, Mr President, my conclusion on a sixth point. It's the last one. It is true that a white year ago - in any case, the minister will think more about it - on the allocation contribution, which is still not a neutral fact. The minister will now answer to us about what we had left and what she had to verify, whether we could receive a copy of EDF's concrete commitment. I'm done. I don't agree, but we've known that for a long time. I have at least answers to my questions and I see where the problems remain. Mr Wollants has just confirmed a part of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u233	Can we therefore conclude the general discussion?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u234	If the minister says she'll give us a copy of the written letter, that's enough for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u235	I already gave it. We're looking for it when we gave it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u236	So, it's just the e-mail. There are no conditions. That was my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u237	In my opinion, I gave it when we talked about the royalty in January 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u238	Mr President, in this case, if the minister can just say that she will give it back to us, that is enough for me and we can close it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u239	The general discussion can therefore be concluded.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u240	Mr President, I was also registered.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u241	You are rightly protesting, Mr. de Lamotte. Your name was well written.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u242	Thank you, Mr. President. [[I heard the Minister's answers.]] But I am still a little surprised at the answers that have not been provided, in particular on the rates of unavailability 2014 and 2015. I'd like to go back to that. I also asked you to calculate the 130 million exactly. You're telling me it's a package. For me, it's an element. I think that at some point in the calculation there will be a question to be asked in relation to the issue of State aid for the financial year 2015. I therefore draw your attention to this element. That's it, Mr. President, to be brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u243	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u244	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2070/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2070/5) The draft law contains 10 articles and an annex. The bill has 10 articles, as well as an annex.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u245	• 31 - Karine Lalieux (2070/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u246	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments, articles and annexes that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments, the articles and the annex reserved and on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u247	Held: the vote on the amendments and Articles 3, 4, 8, 10 and the annex. Article adopted by article: Articles 1, 2, 5 to 7, 9.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u248	******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u249	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Griet Smaers, rapporteur, referred to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u250	Mr. President, I won't be long. And I don't have six questions to ask with specific answers to receive, Mr. Nollet. Colleagues, we are seeing, with this bill, the removal of a 2006 law that sets out the levy to combat the non-use of electricity production sites. The minister is very constant, as is her government, since this law is made, again, for Electrabel. In the framework of the grand deal for the extension of Doel 1 and 2, the government has already approved the transaction for an amount of 120 million to close the dispute between the Belgian State and Electrabel which arose from the law. I would remind you that the state was asking for EUR 300 million. The note has been revised downwards to EUR 180 million. The federal state is too rich for the minister of energy! It now obtains the total abolition of the law. This is amazing, Madam Minister, because as a liberal minister, you are strengthening the monopoly of the historic producer! You justify your law by stating that there is no longer any site concerned, but the energy landscape may change, minister. This law had a deterrent purpose in order to discourage a producer from abusing his position. Instead of repealing the 2006 Act, it had to be amended by extending its scope to land available for smaller production units or for renewable energy. But that would not have been acceptable to Electrabel, Mr Wollants. So you simply remove this law when it could have been dissuasive and would have favoured other producers. Once again, a dominant position of a producer is protected. We regret this deletion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u251	Mr President, we have noted that neither the 2006 Law establishing a levy on unused sites has worked nor the expected results. The unused sites were supposed to come on the market and produce others, but that never happened. Moreover, all kinds of legal complications have been dealt with without a good result. With this text, we can now close that chapter. First of all, I would like to remind you that the vision on which the former law is based is a very different one from what we are now committed to. The relevant law imposed a levy on unused sites on which a 250 megawatt coal power plant could be built, so that those sites would be placed on the market for the construction of a coal power plant. I do not know what you remember about the last coal power plant they wanted to build, but the permit for its construction was refused for reasons of sustainable development. I absolutely do not want to encourage a producer to build a coal power plant. In fact, I myself fillinate weekly or monthly against Germany in this respect, so we will not do so ourselves. Secondly, when it comes to renewable energy, which is also included in the text, you must be aware of what renewable energy is involved. For windmills and solar panels you need quite a large area, before they can produce 250 megawatts. It is therefore a large biomass plant, which is larger than the existing biomass plants, whereas there has already been a lot of criticism and discussion about Max Green and the new biomass plant in Ghent, both of which do not even produce 250 megawatts. I am therefore pleased that the law, which did not produce good results, has disappeared. At the same time, the proposed solution provides money in the drawer, with which we can pay other things. We must, however, continue to work on the energy mix. In such a policy, the existing law does not fit, because it does not provide a solution and I do not want to encourage the construction of coal and large biomass plants, which we do not want.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u252	Mr President, I would like to make two remarks and make a request to the Minister. The Belgian State, in the framework of the draft law which is on the table, alone must waive all taxes on unoccupied sites, while Electrabel and EDF have initiated a procedure to recover the federal gas contribution, Madam Minister, for an amount of 120 million euros. In the context of deal Doel 1 and Doel 2, there was no withdrawal of these provisions or appeal. We question the way things are going, but not the fact that there are things. In the case of a non-retirement of Electrabel's and EDF's appeals on this file. Second element. Madam Minister, in the report I wanted you to inform us about the powers of other energy regulators in Europe. It had been mentioned in the legislation on facilities established or not established in Belgium. Should we not question the power granted to national regulators vis-à-vis operators established abroad but whose activities have an impact on the national market and possibly consider strengthening, on this point, the powers of CREG? I had mentioned to you the case of the endex gas and energy exchange, established in the Netherlands and where reference prices are fixed, which operate on the markets in Belgium. I have been concerned with my Walloon colleagues, and indeed this notion of being "established in Belgium" does not exist in the CWaPE texts. There is a way of working in this dimension, in order to be able to give the CREG power for producers who work on the Belgian market but are not installed there. I believe that this problem should be addressed and producers placed on an equal footing. So I'm waiting for your answer and then I'll reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u253	Mr President, I will be very brief too. I thank the colleagues. First of all, ten years of operation of this law after a ruling of the Constitutional Court which amended certain elements of it because the tax was not pre-removable as it was, also amended the definition by stating that it is actually intended to build a power generating facility with a capacity of at least 400 MW for a gas-fired power plant or a capacity of at least 250 MW for a coal-fired plant or a production facility operating on the basis of renewable energy sources or cogeneration. It is therefore precisely a wording that goes against our objectives. Secondly, there have been a series of procedures. These procedures have resulted in judgements that will be rendered final by the service of the decisions. In fact, it was not 300 million but 143.75 million that were fixed by the court of first instance and of which 17 and 6 million had to be reduced that had been paid by Electrabel, which meant that the amount owed was 120 million. This amount is currently at the Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations. DG Energy found that it could no longer levy taxes since the last site on which it could have been sold. It therefore gave us a four-page report on 20 October, which led to the repeal or in any case the inapplicability of this law. As far as Mr de Lamotte's two questions are concerned, they are not directly related to our case. As I promised you, I asked the CREG about the element "established in Belgium". It is not part of the fact that the law on various provisions amends the electricity law today. But you'll have the answer. With respect to the federal contribution, I also interviewed. I'll have the opportunity with you to talk about this further. Indeed, this issue has not been part of our negotiations, as you have seen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u254	I once again regret the way in which this has happened, particularly in the case of the 120 million for which there is no abstention on the appeals of Electrabel and EDF Luminus. As regards the organisation of the electricity market, the competence of CREG could indeed be established also on institutions established abroad but operating on Belgian territory. Minister, I expected you to propose an amendment to correct this proposal. This one isn't coming, I'll help you. I am going to table a double amendment: one concerns the electricity market and the other concerns the gas market. Mr. President, I'll drop it off for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u255	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u256	Madam Minister, you do what you want. I would like to table this for tomorrow's debate, in order to present those companies which are not established in Belgium but which could, since they work on Belgian territory, commit something odd and escape administrative fines. I'll table the document for you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u257	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u258	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2188/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2188/3) The draft law has 15 articles. The bill has 15 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u259	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-21-54-plenair-ip149x.u260	Colleagues, I'm sorry, but our technical facilities need a reset of at least 20 minutes. I shall therefore suspend the meeting for 20 minutes. Then we will continue with a velocity never seen. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 21 December 2016 at 8.30 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday 21 December 2016 at 8.30 p.m.
