ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic473x.u1	Minister, I asked a question a few months ago about the fight against discrimination against people with an ethnic background in the federal government. We adopted a resolution on this last year with the majority and support from the opposition. It was also agreed in the government agreement, very concretely to encourage diversity in the federal government, in particular in relation to people with ethnic background. You indicated that the Working Group on Persons with a Migration Background of the Diversity Management Steering Group within the federal government had been instructed to draw up a policy paper. In it, the people of the federal network of diversity managers and of Unia would draw up a definition for people with a migration background. A monitoring approach would also be developed. For this purpose, the input of the FOD WASO and of experts would be used. What is the state of play? What's the status of the task force? When did they get together? What other meetings are planned? What results have already been very concrete? To what extent can this working group build on the work already done in Flanders by the Flemish Community? The Flemish Community already has a definition to take measurements within the administration. On what points should the approach and definition differ from that of Flanders?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic473x.u2	Mr President, Mrs Lanjri, within the Federal Diversity network there is a working group on Migration. This working group forwarded to my cabinet a policy paper containing a concrete proposal of definition and a first step towards operationalisation. This policy proposal was drawn up on the basis of a benchmark among the various governments in Belgium, including the Flemish government, a literature study and various contacts with key actors such as the FOD WASO Employment, Labour and Social Consultation. More specifically, the Working Group on Migration in its memo proposes that the current definition of the Flemish government be taken over in its entirety from the new definition of January 2016. Some of the key benefits of the proposed approach are a clear definition of the target group in line with other actors in the field, creating the possibility of zero measurement, and monitoring and automatic recording via authentic sources according to the only-once principle. My cabinet has already had contact with Secretary of State Sleurs' cabinet on this definition. The definition of the Flemish government means that both the current nationality of an individual and the birth nationality and the parents are taken into account to determine the origin of an individual. There will therefore no longer be talk of persons with a migration background, but of persons of foreign origin. The choice of the working group to put forward that definition is considered and based on a number of clear and important benefits associated with this definition. Choosing birth nationality as a criterion is opting for a broad definition, but also for a more correct and stable criterion. A broad definition offers the advantage of overcoming possible changes in the future, such as enlargement of the European Union, without changing the definition. The broadness of the definition can be captured by working in the monitoring system with country groups, as the advice of the Privacy Commission to the Flemish government has also sounded. This also allows more targeted monitoring. A second advantage is that this definition allows for an interfederal comparison of figures. In addition, this definition is also in line with the variable "origin' of socio-economic monitoring, which also includes a population comparison. This will enable the federal government to obtain a nuanced picture of the figures and therefore to take more targeted actions. I also see an additional advantage in the quality of socio-economic monitoring. The data for the federal civil service are currently supplied via NACE, which, for example, does not contain contractual provisions, although this category obviously belongs in the figures. By aligning the definitions, the data can be more accurately included in socio-economic monitoring. I would also like to quote what the government agreement says about this: although progress has been made in this area, inequalities still persist in access to employment between Belgians, depending on whether they are of Belgian origin or from migration. Therefore, the federal government will pursue and encourage diversity in its own organisation and services and will set a quantified target for the federal government through the method of socio-economic monitoring, coordinated by the FOD WASO." It is precisely for this reason that I asked to sit down with the Peeters' Cabinet to see what next steps should be taken. I am pleased to inform you that on 19 July my staff will have an appointment at the Peeters' Cabinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic473x.u3	In connection with what do you consult with the Peeters' Cabinet?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic473x.u4	The FOD WASO is involved and I have no control over that. The coalition agreement specifically refers to the input of the FOD WASO. I'm going to the custody minister of the FOD WASO to ask him to make progress on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic473x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Firstly, the hot water does not always have to be reinvented. If we can adapt to the definition used in Flanders, I have no problem with that. However, I must point out that, after discussions, the definition in Flanders has also been adapted. This happened two years ago in the government negotiations, extending the definition to all non-Belgians, thus extending it to those who come from Europe. It is important that, after the extension of the definition, the target should also be raised. It used to be 4 % in Flanders; now it is 10 %. The most important thing, however, remains that within the 10% margin it is also ensured that the different target groups are covered, so that, as a so-called, not 10% is filled in by persons with a migration background from the Netherlands, France and Germany. In that case, the calculated target of 10% of employees of foreign origin was achieved, but that figure would only have been achieved with persons coming from our neighbouring countries. That is certainly something that needs to be taken care of. I am counting on further refinement to maintain the definition, but when achieving the targets set, it will be possible to determine which target groups are included in these figures and how it can be defined that persons from outside the EU-15 are sufficiently represented, as was the case in the past for Flanders. I am pleased that your cabinet will soon have an appointment with the Minister of Work's cabinet in order to bring it closer together. I therefore hope that in September 2016 I will be able to see in committee that progress has been made and that the target is finally set. After all, this has been included in the coalition agreement. I was allowed to negotiate with you. We must therefore now ensure that it is implemented. It has so far been stuck with the definition. I am glad that we are now taking the first step. The second step is to set the target. Thereafter, the various administrations should be asked to take the necessary measures effectively. Even though there will be no massive recruitment in the civil service, the target to be met must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic473x.u6	Mrs. Lanjri, we didn't just adopt a definition. We have based ourselves on a report from the working group Migration within the Federal Diversity network. That's a case. Secondly, I would very much like to make progress on the dossier, but it is a transversal dossier. This will therefore take some time. We specifically say in the coalition agreement that we are based on the socio-economic monitoring, which is coordinated by the FPS over which I have no control. We are working together with fellow Members of this House. I also believe that we can make real progress and that we will not disappoint you with what we will soon be able to propose to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic473x.u7	Very well, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic473x.u8	Mr President, I am glad to see you here in calmer circumstances than this weekend. Although quieter is not the good word, serenity neither, I will think about the best word. Minister, the redesign of federal public services is an important programme aimed at improving the provision of services to citizens. In addition, this should also lead to significant reductions in expenditure. According to the tables distributed in Parliament in July 2015, a year ago, this amounts to EUR 100 million in 2016, EUR 200 million in 2017, EUR 250 million in 2018, EUR 100 million in 2019 and EUR 100 million in 2020. Together we are talking about a recurrent, structural and large amount of EUR 750 million. Firstly, to what extent is process analysis a dimension in the redesign of the entire federal government? Has any thought been given to mapping and integrating the main processes? How does the process analysis relate to the formal assembly of departments? Secondly, does your cabinet still support the basic objective, which is also mentioned in the coalition agreement: "A substantial reduction in the number of FPS, OISZ's, ION's and the number of entities with less than 50 FTE and the lifting of the PPS's debt? Or does it prefer process analysis that is separate from formal merging? It could also have been chosen to leave the structures as they are now and to merge a number of processes into the back office. There are about fifteen trials in the federal government and perhaps this already covers a lot of the activities of the federal government. Thirdly, who is running the project right now? In previous questions, you said you were responsible for two of the six projects. Who is overall politically responsible in relation to Parliament and the Finance Inspectorate? Fourthly, does your cabinet still support the amounts communicated to Parliament in July 2015? Fifth, one of the sub-projects concerns the integration of Budget, P&D, Fedict and also the Chancery. What is the motivation to add the Chancery to Budget, P&O and Fedict? To what extent are the processes of the Chancery initially similar to those of the three other mentioned government organisations? How close are they to getting? Has there been a prior analysis or audit of the current performance of the Chancery, which would suggest synergy with the three other departments in the project? To what extent does the services of the Chancery correspond to the services of the other departments, in particular from the point of departure of the customer of the services? Sixthly, we are now a little further than halfway through the current financial year. What are the preliminary financial results of the various routes? What is the financial result of section 1 on centrally coordinated federal purchases? What is the financial result of section 2 on the collection of government revenue? What is the financial result of section 3 on real estate management? What is the financial result of section 4 on operational safety improvements? What is the financial result of section 5 on operational health improvements? What is the financial result of section 6 on the integration of service processes within the vertical FPS and other federal organisations? What is the total financial result of these six routes?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic473x.u9	Mr President, Mr Bogaert, I would like to refer to the extensive explanation I have given to your colleagues in this committee. You weren't there at the time. At the request of the Committee on 14 June 2016, we devoted a full meeting to the discussion of the redesign, which provided a full overview, including responsibilities and possible objectives. That is reflected in the reports of the Chamber. Your various questions were also addressed in that exchange of views. You are again making a very meritorious attempt to put a hot potato on me. I confirm what I said last time, namely that my cabinet is partly drawing this project. If you ask for responsibilities to the IF and to Parliament, I repeat what I have already said a few times. For each of these sections, if you had been here on 14 June, you would know what sponsoring minister means to be responsible for the contacts with his finance inspector and, where appropriate, with Parliament for the specific, concrete measures taken in this respect. I'll give you a few more clarifications. Is process analysis a dimension in the redesign? It seems clear to me that process analysis is a dimension in each of the individual pathways. Creating efficiency gains can only be achieved through a thorough analysis of the current processes and through a critical reflection on what can be better and different in the future. Also in section 5, the redesign of the health care administrations, for example, it is examined how the administrations responsible for health policy and health insurance can be rationalised and brought together in one policy area. In this respect, a few steps forward are already being taken today. I repeat, responsibility for redesign is undoubtedly a shared responsibility of the whole government. I have two pathways under my sponsorship. Colleagues have other routes. You can ask questions about this, you can challenge me, but at that moment I will have to name and blame, which I would prefer to avoid, out of collusion with my colleagues in the government. If you say that it is a basic objective of the redesign in order to achieve a substantial reduction in the number, then we can strongly disagree on what the basic objective is. The basic objective is to achieve a device that works, that works well, that works efficiently, that provides good services to customers. To say that a reduction in itself is a basic objective is not entirely correct. Reduce tout court can contribute to that basic objective. As far as support services are concerned, we have said that there is a whole range of synergies for everyone who wants to see. These are, in particular, the smallest federal administrations, where a number of processes are similar and a lot of work is done in duplicate. If we want to start with the redesign of one thing, it is right that we want to look at what things that doubly happen today we can eliminate the duplication of work in the future. So we want synergies to emerge from that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic473x.u10	Of course, I am in favour of transparency. You say: "If you ask any further questions about this issue, I will have to name and blame." Then I refer to Montesquieu and the separation of powers. I am here as a Member of Parliament and, of course, it is my right as a Member of Parliament to ask questions about the financial results. It is finally in the budget tables for EUR 750 million. I do not want to force you into taking and blaming, nor do I want to force you into anything else, but I am asking very modestly what the financial result is so far. That financial result was not addressed in that hearing. I therefore believe that these are legitimate questions that I am asking in addition to the hearing. I can only assume that it is very little, otherwise you would put amounts forward. I must therefore do my job as a Member of Parliament. I hope you understand that. This is not a deloyal attitude towards the government. I am here to ask about the EUR 750 million entered in the budget. We are now 12 July, in half of the year. I believe this is a normal question. I read that the entire project was submitted by your cabinet to the Treasury Inspectorate. If I ask Minister Vandeput about this, I am told that I should not be with him for that. No problem for me, because I will then put that question to the Prime Minister in the future. I'm not here to ask a lot of questions about this. I ask a question once in a while. I have also been addressed by your head of your cabinet about why I am asking my questions and that was also done in a not really professional way. I do not come here every week to ask a question about the problem. However, I do think that I should be able to do my job as a Member of Parliament. Nor did you answer my question about the Chancellery. I asked an open question about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic473x.u11	I think I've made myself clear about the Chancellery. Was there any money spent on a study? No. Have the presidents of the relevant FODs and the people of the working group considered whether there are synergies and what things are happening twice? Of course. That's exactly the process analysis that happened. On this basis, it was decided to make a proposal to the Steering Committee to make four FODs one supporting FOD, as proposed on 14 June. All four and the entire College of Presidents are convinced that this is a good step. Mr Bogaert, you can say a lot about the financial trajectory, but you have to be careful, because when you talk about EUR 750 million, it is about the end of the legislature. We must be careful not to pollute the debate again with everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic473x.u12	I don't pollute the debate!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic473x.u13	Mr Bogaert, the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic473x.u14	Absolutely not. I have this right. It builds up to 750 million euros. You cannot accuse me of polluting the debate on this point. That's not right.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic473x.u15	Mr Bogaert, as long as we agree and I do not read in your prepared press paper that we must achieve 750 million this year, it is good for me. We are building up to 750 million by the end of the legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic473x.u16	We agree on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic473x.u17	That is what we agree on and it is good that it should be noted in the report. As far as the Chancellery is concerned, I have said that there are effective synergies for those who want to see it. Let me give you two concrete examples. Firstly, there is a great deal to be done in the various services in the field of communication. Secondly, there are the own support services of the various smaller FODs. Also with regard to IT, it is not always clear which FOD controls or implements policies. These are three very concrete examples on the basis of the proposal on the single horizontal federal support service. Those are things that are specifically included in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic473x.u18	Firstly, I do not pollute the debate. I would like to point that out again. In my introduction, I made it clear what is expected to be added year by year. It adds up to 750 million euros. I quote from my question: 'Together we are talking about a recurrent structural amount of EUR 750 million.' So I regret that you have said so, but that is clear now. It thus adds up to 750 million euros. Secondly, I will not press any further. I will put all the questions on this to the Prime Minister. You say that you do not care now and that you find it annoying that I am coming to the committee to ask that question. I do not want an ambras with you personally, nor with your party, but I note the message that I can ask someone else. I shall then put my question to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic473x.u19	Mr President, allow me to clarify one more point. The Members of this House who were present on 14 June recall my statement that the government will be given an overview of the state of play regarding the various individual pathways and their financial support for 2017 in budgetary control and budget preparation. I think it would be a disloyalty to my fellow Members if, rather than being agreed, I were to bring out figures. Moreover, this is a specific notification in Easter budgetary control, which states that the state of play of the budget for 2017 will be reviewed and that the various ministers will, if necessary, make additional proposals in order to achieve the return. Today I can confirm in concrete terms that these notifications have been agreed in the government. You can ask me your questions and I would like to answer them as far as possible. I accept my responsibility as far as my competence is concerned, but I cannot possibly be responsible for matters for which I am not competent. I think we agree on that. Well, on 14 June, I already said that, in my opinion, it is also stated in the report on budgetary control and budgetisation for 2017 that a state of play will be made on the financial performance of the various sub-roads. At that time, the government may also decide to take additional initiatives if necessary. Colleague ministers may be able to join with additional projects, which are already the subject of proposals by the Steering Committee today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic473x.u20	Mr President, Parliament has the last word, which is perfectly normal. Mr Minister, first of all, I note that for two of the six projects, as you also replied to a previous question, you are taking on the sponsorship of ownership. That's why I can come here. For the overarching part, so the global state of the redesign...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic473x.u21	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic473x.u22	I'm not encouraged to ask that here. I repeat that I have been given a clear message from your head of your cabinet that I should not come here to ask for it, which I deeply regret. I also deeply regret the way in which this has happened. I'll draw my plan with it. I repeat that I do not have the ambition to question you here every week on the subject. When things come my way in a certain way, I have no choice but to respond to them anyway, let's just say it as it happened. Secondly, with regard to those two of your six projects, I repeat my specific question. Do you think the Chancery belongs to that group of four? What is the initial intention of merging them with departments that seem to be different to me, namely Budget, P&O and Fedict? The Chancellery is, after all, much more politically supportive. The logic would therefore be that the Chancery belongs in a different way or with something else, or that the Chancery should be separate. That was just my fifth question, if I may put it here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic473x.u23	It is not always clear for the four departments whether policy support or policy preparation is being undertaken. In that sense, these processes are extremely similar. I have just given three very concrete examples of why, in our view, and also according to the respective presidents of the various administrations, it is appropriate to merge them together. I can't be any clearer than that. I can only say that the plan has been proposed at the College of Presidents, the Steering Committee and the Government and that it has been assessed positively at all levels. So we'll get on with it. As of 1 January 2017, we are talking about a horizontal policy support federal government organisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic473x.u24	I think it needs to be looked at. In connection with the whole redesign of the government, I think that we should look at the processes themselves, at the back offices, and much less at the formal, which apparently is no longer the objective of the redesign project. These fourteen processes, which are similar within the government, need to be looked at, where synergies need to be examined. In connection with the Chancery, I have big questions as to whether she belongs to Budget, P&O and Fedict at all. I know that commitments have been made there, but the Chancery is another duck in that group in relation to those other departments. I don't think it's wise to lift them and add them to the other one. Minister, although I agree with you that there is also policy support for the other three, I do not think she should be entirely there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic473x.u25	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hees' 12161 has been converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Top's 12269 is considered to have been withdrawn in accordance with Rule 127, 10 of the Rules of Procedure, since Mr Top has not shown up and has not given notice.
