ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u1	Questions Nos 12816 and 12817 by Mrs Jadin are converted into written questions, as well as Question No Question No 128, by Mr Vanden Burre 12846 by Mr Vanvelthoven.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u2	Mr Minister, it is not the first and probably not the last question on redesign security. Yesterday, Mr Vandeput also mentioned this. As you know, the coalition agreement provides for an optimization project for the federal government, the redesign. This was approved by the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2015. The project consists of six improvement projects which should produce results in the short and medium term. The six routes together should, in the long term, be worth at least EUR 750 million by 2020. The different trajectories differ in size. The objective must be achieved together, so that one route can achieve more or less than the other. As for your competence, Minister, the 'operational excellence in the field of security' section was brought under your sponsorship. The core of this process is to do more and better with less. The starting point is that much efficiency and quality of service to the citizen is lost within each department, because people often work in silos per department or service. The approach considers end-to-end processes from a citizen's point of view and optimises both the internal functioning of services and the points of contact between services and departments. We had an exchange of views on this matter with the Minister of Civil Service on 14 June last in this committee, but the Minister was unable to tell us at that time how much he has already earned or how much he will earn by 2020. For this reason, he pointed out, among other things, that the redesign was a task for the whole government, with powers divided among different ministers. In this context, I had the following questions. What is the status of the route under your jurisdiction? In what way do you want to do more and better with less? How much has the redesign process Security brought in so far? How was this realized? What is the target by 2020, specifically in terms of the safety pathway?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u3	Mrs Gabriels, I have a preliminary remark. I do not know if you meant it this way, but it is not just the six redesign paths that we have defined so far that will yield 750 million by 2020. There'll be more trajectories to get to that sum. I just wanted to clarify that. For route 4, operational excellence in the field of Security, the vision paper was approved by the Steering Committee on 14 June last, after which the implementation of this vision paper was started. Integration, simplification, alignment and a focus on the provision of identified common, similar or adjacent cross-cutting processes of FPS Home Affairs, the FPS Justice, the judicial order and the integrated police as key security factors can contribute to a safer society with fewer resources. Less resources will then be translated into less full-time equivalents and/or a lower budget. Stakeholders will be involved more effectively and efficiently. What's the bottom line? Home Affairs, together with Justice in this project, will coordinate the processes and perhaps also make minor changes to the legislation that could lead to enormous operational consequences. Those processes and changes will be mapped and adapted. This will help to improve services to citizens and businesses, by identifying and improving, where possible, the moments of truth, where stakeholders come in direct contact with the services concerned. To this end, it was decided to draw up five priority sub-projects in a first phase. A working group was set up for the preparation of each sub-project on the trajectory group of 29 May 2016. The task of these working groups is, inter alia, to calculate the budgetary aspects of the redesign process. We do not have any figures yet. We do see enormous potential to accelerate, improve and make things cheaper. It is precisely the task of these working groups to map and calculate this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u4	Thank you, Minister. I understand that we are still in an early stage. The 750 million is the overall objective, and how we will achieve it is less important. If good projects can be added, that's so much better.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u5	Mr President, Minister, the European Union is now behind us. This question was put at a time when Belgium was still in the running. We read that, at the request of France, our country has mobilised 11 police officers to follow the Belgian supporters of the Red Devils at the European Championships. Last month, in this committee, you clarified the assignment of these agents. You indicated that they would assist the competent authorities in making decisions, that they should engage in dialogue with the supporters and the local authorities to point out the presence of risk supporters who are of course better known by their own people. Furthermore, our police officers will provide the investigators with technical assistance when someone is arrested. If action is to be taken in a different way, they will leave it to their French colleagues. There will therefore be continuous action in conjunction with the French police officers. In recent weeks, reports of possible problems with Belgian supporters have been pierced. For example, a hundred Belgian hooligans would have dropped to Nice to kick their asses. They belong to Casuals United Belgium, a hooligan association composed of hardcore members of various Belgian football teams. They were recently in the news when, unfortunately, in Brussels, they disturbed a tribute to the victims of the attacks of 22 March. I asked you a question about that at the time. Our agents on the scene would know who it is and would be easier to pass their identity on to the French police. A few weeks ago, I tabled the following questions. What problems have arisen so far? Has our cops had to perform yet? Has there been an additional request for police support since Casuals United Belgium became known to have dropped to France? Or did you still have to put in an additional reserve of spotters? In short, I would have liked to have received an evaluation of the deployment of our policemen at the European Championships.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u6	Mr President, Mrs Gabriels, on 30 June, 28 Belgian nationals were interviewed since the beginning of the European Championship, 26 of whom were in cities where the Belgian team was not playing and where our policemen were not working either. There were four interviews for violence against a police officer in Lille on June 16, on the eve of England's match against Wales. One Belgian has appeared before the courts for this purpose and has since been convicted. There were 11 interplations for the possession of pyrotechnics and two interplations for the possession of narcotics. That was in Lens on 21 June following the Czech Republic's match against Croatia. There were two interviews for possession of narcotics in Nice on 22 June following the match Belgium against Sweden. There were three interviews for public drunkenness and an interview for possession of narcotics in Lens on 25 June following the Croatia against Portugal match. There were four interplays for the healing of stolen tickets and an interplay for the possession of narcotics in Saint-Denis on 27 June following the match Italy against Spain. So far, Belgian police officers have only had to take preventive action in a role of hostage, reception and communication with the supporters. As for your second question, there has been no additional request for punctual police support. This was only formulated by France for the Wales match against Belgium on 1 July, given the geographical location of Lille and the number of supporters without tickets expected in that city. As far as your third question is concerned, there is no need for additional aid. Everything actually went pretty quietly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u7	The conclusion, then, is that cooperation with the French police has gone well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u8	Debates of the European Parliament 12903 by Mrs Gabriels was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u9	Mr President, Minister, a month ago my colleague questioned you in plenary about the idea of the Dutch police services passing on the names of jihadists and of people from their surroundings to the four main banks, so that they could make a thorough analysis of any suspicious financial transactions by those involved. That question came at the request of the Dutch Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU), which previously found that at least two billion euros come from a jihadist angle is highly questionable. You replied to my colleague, Mr Jan Penris, in that plenary that you would meet your Dutch colleague Ard van der Steur on the next day and that you would certainly talk about that. Minister, what is the state of play? What has been the outcome of your interview with your Dutch colleague in this respect? What are your findings and his findings on this? Are you considering making such a measure possible here too? What are its advantages and disadvantages? In what sense could we expect such a measure? Within what time limit is this possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u10	Mr President, Mrs Pas, thank you for following up the plenary session. As I said then, I have been in contact with my colleague van der Steur, the Dutch Minister for Security and Justice. He explained to me how their system works. The Dutch banks will soon be given the individual names of suspected jihadists to monitor them for unusual transactions. The names are provided to the banks by the Financial Intelligence Unit. In doing so, they base themselves on information from the police. That can only happen after having checked with the prosecution whether there is a predominantly objection to sharing the names. With this measure, the FIU hopes to gain more insight into the financing of terrorism and jihadist networks in the Netherlands. After unusual transactions, reported from the financial sector, have been declared suspicious by the head of the FIU, they are made available to various enforcement and investigation services. With us, that actually works in the same way. I'm declaring myself. The OCAD reports any foreign fighter to the SIOD or Social Intelligence and Investigation Service, who can start a social and fiscal investigation. In addition, the CFI can start a financial investigation and exercise all its powers. These powers are listed in Article 33 of the Law of 11 January 1993 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing. In addition, steps may be taken in the framework of the judicial investigation to examine the financial situation of the foreign fighter, which may result in possible legal measures. Finally, the bank accounts of foreign fighters may become the subject of a measure known as the freezing of funds, on the basis of a possible inclusion on the national or international lists. This system works properly to this end. However, the Dutch still have to introduce their system. I have agreed with my colleague, Mr van der Steur, that we will look at and evaluate both systems over time. If it turns out that their system is more accurate than ours, I am open to looking at another structure in our country. So we are now working on it as we are doing, because it gives results on the ground. In about six months' time, after the start of work in the Netherlands, we will examine with them which of the two systems is best.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and look forward to the evaluation. If it turns out that it is useful to pass names directly to the banks, I assume that you are also open to doing so here. After all, it is a small step for foreign fighters to move from a bank in the Netherlands to a bank in Belgium, if there is no direct control. An evaluation will indeed be necessary. I have reservations about limiting this to a number of banks in the Netherlands. After all, those concerned are not from yesterday and will turn to other banks which do not receive the information. Together with you, I await the evaluation in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u12	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Delannois' 12904 will be dealt with in the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u13	Mr Minister, this is another follow-up question. You know that the Flemish Government, like the other state governments, are asking parties to change the order of precedence. At the time, Flemish Prime Minister Bourgeois has already argued to the federal government to place the position of Flemish Prime Minister in the federal order immediately after the Federal Prime Minister's office. I've already questioned you about this and you promised to do something about it. In doing so, you set out to implement this amendment by 21 July 2015. You then set up a working group, which made a number of recommendations by consensus in July 2015. In a follow-up question in November 2015, you said that its implementation was still in consultation within the federal government and that its implementation was projected for autumn 2015. In March 2016, I asked you a written question on this subject, and even then the answer was that it was still in consultation within the government and that the agenda at the Council of Ministers was foreseen for spring 2016. In the meantime, spring is over and I have not yet seen the subject on the agenda of the Council of Ministers. Hence my questions. Is it true that this dossier has not yet been brought to the Council of Ministers? If so, how come? In that case, how long will the federal government be in agreement to reach an agreement on this dossier? It may be because of my bad character, but could it be that there is disagreement in the government's lap? If so, can you clarify where the bottlenecks lie? When do you think this dossier will be on the agenda of the Council of Ministers? When can the new protocol order come into force? Maybe you can get that settled before 21 July of this year?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u14	Mrs Pas, at least before 21 July, but I do not know what year. [[Hilarity]] It is true that this dossier has not yet been brought to the Council of Ministers. The reason for this is simple: no agreement could yet be reached within the government's bosom to approve it. As you know, that's how a government works. There's only one deal if everyone agrees. Apparently, there are a number of emotional sensitivities with regard to this dossier. We have not yet succeeded in getting everyone on the same wavelength. I'll work on that. I don't pin myself on timing. In time, a man learns from his many mistakes. In this respect, I would rather have a good arrangement than a half-baked arrangement which is difficult to explain.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. My suspicion that no agreement could yet be reached on this apparently sensitive issue is correct. You did not answer the question of what exactly are the bottlenecks and the sensitivities. You also stop pinting on a date and don't want to set any more timing. However, I will regularly remind you of this dossier and ask for a state of affairs, if only to respond to the pressing question of the Prime Minister of Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u16	The answer will be given by the Minister for Security and Home Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u17	I also read that it was passed on to the Home Secretary. In May 2016, it became known that the staff of the French reactor builder Areva had for years deleted or falsified documents in order to accept parts manufactured by Creusot Forge as complying with safety standards. It's kind of like the diesel scandal. Following that, Greenpeace France reported that Belgium is one of the countries that might be affected by the irregularities of the documents relating to the quality of the large steel parts manufactured by Creusot Forge. The French nuclear safety supervisor, the ASN, talks about inconsistencies, failures in quality control and omission of and changes in documents. It concerns the carbon content and other elements in the composition of the metal components, the content which determines the resistance of the manufactured components. In 400 out of 10 000 inspection documents evaluated by Areva, this was incorrect or not completed at all. Greenpeace states that Doel's nuclear power plants and Tihange contain replacement steam generators, cockpit covers and pressure regulators manufactured by Creusot Forge. The new cover of the Objective 4 reactor vessel installed in 2015 would also come from Areva/Le Creusot. As a watchdog, the FANC would have asked the operator to investigate the case of these irregularities. Jan Bens, the director of the FANC, stated at the hearing on 20 March 2013 that Creusot Forge produced the reactor pressure vessels from Tihange 1, Objective 1 and Objective 2. The report of that hearing also states that the reactor vessels of Doel 3 and Tihange 2 were cast by the German company Krupp, were forged by the Dutch firm Rotterdamse Droogdok Maatschappij, worked at Cockerill and assembled by Creusot Loire, i.e. the current Framatome Areva. Minister, it is not immediately clear to me why the FANC is asking the direct interested party, Engie Electrabel, to investigate this case. I think it's FANC's job to investigate that and the operator. Has the FANC itself, as a nuclear supervisor, not kept any conformity attestations or other documents demonstrating the quality of the parts manufactured by Creusot? Have the FANC, Bel V and AIB Vinçotte carried out the necessary inspections since the Royal Decree of 18 October 1991 on steam engines? What are the results of that? If the FANC does not have a number of documents concerning the quality of the parts manufactured by Creusot Forge, how can this lack of essential documents be explained? In the absence of data, how could the FANC approve the restart of the Belgian nuclear reactors and even extend their lifespan? Why are the Belgian nuclear power plants not put into effect as a precautionary measure until there is definite certainty about the quality and safety of the parts manufactured by Creusot Forge or Framatome Areva or Areva/Le Creusot?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u18	The repetition is a stylish figure which is very often used in this committee, especially when it comes to nuclear matters. The FANC sent a letter to both Electrabel and Le Creusot/Areva and to the French supervisor ASN asking them to provide an exhaustive list of the components supplied to the Belgian nuclear power plants which would have been affected by the irregularities. The FANC initially asked Electrabel this question, because as an operator it has the primary responsibility for the safe operation of its installations, but also because the Agency has no authority to require a foreign company to do so. ASN opened this file because of a problem with the cockpit of the new French reactor EPR in Flamanville. The new forged reactor tank has properties slightly different from the expectations in the load book. In this context, ASN has requested that all quality records of all forgings of this factory be checked. Areva, owner of Creusot Forge, discovered that there were two different quality files for around 400 out of 10 000 forged pieces. The files showed that for these 400 pieces the manufacturer had detected deviations from the specifications at the time of their manufacture. On the basis of expert judgement, these documents were further treated and finally declared compliant for the customer without being informed of this deviation. A first version of the construction file, which was handed over to the customer, shows that the piece is in accordance with the specifications. Not all the treatments that took place during the manufacturing process have been included in this dossier. The second version of the file, which was kept by Creusot Forge and was not handed over to the customer, provides information about all the actions carried out. It is therefore a very poor practice of quality assurance where the manufacturer did not consider it necessary to notify his customer. Electrabel neither ASN nor AIB Vinçotte have the second full version of the construction file. According to the Ministerial Decree of 11 June 1993, AIB Vinçotte is responsible for controlling the pressure equipment used in the Belgian nuclear power stations. When these pieces are delivered to Electrabel they realize the delivery. Also AIB Vinçotte realizes a delivery and checks the compliance of the construction file with the regulatory requirements and the requirements of the specifications. This construction file was duly examined when AIB Vinçotte received the piece. Neither the FANC nor Bel V have copies of these construction files, but they can be consulted at any time with the operator. The operator of the Belgian nuclear power plants, Electrabel, is the only one with a complete construction file for each piece of nuclear power plants. The contractors' inspections and quality checks were carried out correctly and in accordance with the rules. It should be known that these audits of contractors are not carried out on all documents, but on a sample of the documents delivered. This was only a piece delivered to Electrabel. Finally, Belgian nuclear power plants are not put out of operation as a precaution because there are no elements that indicate an impact on safety. According to the information obtained by the FANC, the components of Creusot Forge located in Belgian nuclear power plants all meet the quality standards. There is, however, a component in the Tihange nuclear power plant whose quality file is incomplete. It concerns a component of the internal parts of the reactor tank of Tihange 2, namely the upper core plate. During the production process, this component has undergone thermal treatment twice, while the quality file only mentions one thermal treatment. This double thermal treatment has no impact on the behaviour of the component, but had to be mentioned in the file. It is therefore an irregularity in the field of documentation. This has no impact on safety and therefore the FANC does not see the need to shut down the Tihange 2 reactor. The FANC will monitor the investigation further and will ensure that all necessary verifications and controls are carried out, including through thematic inspections, which will focus on subcontractors and on monitoring the quality of the components and services they provide.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. Excuse me, but I was not aware that this question had already been asked. I hadn't addressed them to you either, but to Minister Marghem. I'll read your comprehensive answer again. However, it seems to me that there is a lack of security and control, including at the FANC. It is inconceivable that a number of cases should be asked through the operator and that the competent authorities cannot investigate them themselves. Again, I will look into your answer in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u20	Mr President, Minister, the Royal Decree of 22 June 2016 on surf sports came into force on 1 July 2016. It is one of the tasks of the shipping police Coast (SPN Coast) to monitor compliance with these regulations. During the previous years, a RHIB, a boat with two staff, was used during the summer holidays. The Baywatch team is responsible for monitoring compliance with the specific nautical legislation relating to surf sports and pleasure sailing in the North Sea. In addition, are also responsible for the safety of bathers. For unprecedented reasons, this boat has not been repaired in time so that the SPN Coast would not now have a vessel to form this team. Water safety may be compromised and since there is no provision for beach police this year for reasons of staff shortage, the shipping police will not act on the beaches and the direct coastal strip this summer, with all the consequences. Rescue will be busy keeping all areas safe. The SPN Coast jumped in other years when the rescue services could not intervene, given their own safety. I would have liked to have gotten an answer to a few questions. Is it true that the shipping police have a total of nine such boats? How are the different boats divided among the different shipping police services? How many boats are operational at the moment? Can the SPN Coast also use another type of boat? For what reason has this boat of the shipping police not been repaired in time? Can the device still be repaired and possibly by when?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u21	Thank you, Mr Top, for this question. Nothing's a coincidence. On Saturday I had the exceptional pleasure of sailing with a RHIB along the tall ships on the Scheldt in Antwerp. I've been able to see in person what the agility and speed of those RHIBs is. To answer your question in a very specific way, the shipping police currently have five fully-fledged RHIB and four sideboats type RHIB. In total they are indeed nine RHIB boats, Rigid Hull Inflatable Boats. Of the five fully-fledged RHIBs, four are suitable for patrol missions in the North Sea. The four other sideboats type RHIB have limited operational employability and do not carry out autonomous patrol missions at sea or on inland waterways. They are either on a patrol vessel or too small to sail alone. The nine RHIBs are available to all services of the shipping police. They are, of course, given an initial location for the performance of local contracts within the geographical area of competence of these services. The full RHIBS are the following: the SPN 1 of the Zuid Liege shipping police is operational, the SPN 2 of the Ghent shipping police is operational, the SPN 5 of the Zuid Bergen/Mons shipping police is not operational, the SPN 7 of the Antwerp shipping police on which I was still present on Saturday is operational and the SPN 12 of the Coastal shipping police is not operational. Regarding the dinghy: the SPN 9 of the shipping police Coast is operational, the SPN 14 of the shipping police Antwerp is operational, the SPN 16 of the shipping police Gent is operational and the SPN 17, specifically for the marina of Nieuwpoort, is not operational. At present, therefore, three fully-fledged RHIBs are operational, two of which can be deployed in the North Sea. For the Baywatch operation, a rapid intervention vessel SPN 15 of the DHB fleet will be deployed to replace the sea RHIB. However, this vessel is less suitable to sail very close to the coast, given the greater depth compared to the sea RHIB. In the meantime, the shipping police are doing everything possible to provide the most suitable vessel from its fleet daily for the Baywatch operation, but it must also take into account the fact that the other available RHIBs are also used daily during many other summer activities on the navigable waterways, of which I have just mentioned one. To answer your last question, the vessel was restored to the steering system in mid-June and was thus ready for operational deployment during the summer season. On 22 June, the engine suffered irreparable damage during an operational operation. Meanwhile, the market procedure for the purchase of a new engine for this sea RHIB is under way. It will be available at the earliest at the end of September. In the meantime, there is also a market procedure for the purchase of four new full-fledged RHIB inland waterways to replace the current RHIB services. Of this, the first delivery is planned in the summer of next year, in June. For orders on the coast, the shipping police will determine each day which vessel will be deployed. Those vessels are very light and easy to move. The aircraft initially planned off the coast has indeed suffered damage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Of course, there is concern about the safety of the bathers and the people who practice water sports on our coast. I'm worried about the running season. You are already talking about the replacement of the boat which is irreparably damaged and also about the replacement of the other boats from autumn onwards. You mentioned the replacement of the boat off the coast by another type of boat with a larger depth. As far as possible, I would like to ask you to use a different type of material, so that we can actually work close to the coast. That zone is the most dangerous. The water sports take place in the surfing, on small sailboats and surfboards. I therefore urge you to use the appropriate equipment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u23	Yeah, like I just said, we're doing everything we can, but it's possible that the boat that's used for a certain event will be removed anyway. The boat I was talking about has no irreparable damage, but its engine has been damaged. A new engine has to be ordered and of course this is not delivered from the shelf.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u24	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u25	Questions Nos 12970 and 12973 by Mrs Jadin have been converted into written questions, as have those put together. No 12986 by Mrs Poncelet and No 12986 by Mrs Poncelet and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u26	I assume, Minister, that I do not have to repeat the whole introduction to my written presentation. In other words, the competence of traffic education in schools, which has been greatly appreciated by the schools for many years, is logically transferred to the regions. In Flanders this would be the task of the Flemish Traffic Administration Foundation. However, it turns out that a large number of these provincial Cells Education and Prevention (CEP) have adopted a large number of school applications for the next school year during the last school year. So now there are questions about the transitional period for this transfer. I do not need to remind you of the importance of traffic education, especially in the case of young people. It is often on a low pitch in the schools anyway. If these forms of traffic education were to be abolished, this would have a negative impact on road safety awareness. That is why I have a number of questions. On what basis and when was the decision taken to cancel the Cells Education and Prevention? According to information from these cells themselves, they received this news very late, so they have accepted many applications for the next school year. When exactly will the cells stop their work? Is the time well agreed with the Regions to take over that task through the CSV? Will the Regions be ready to take over these tasks at that time? Questions to your colleague at the Flemish level show that there is still some work to be done. Can the Regions effectively take over from 1 September 2016? In what way were the CEP concerned informed about this decision? Is there a need for a transitional period? There is now a feeling that things are getting too brusque. As a result, it is not clear whether everything can take place as planned. Will that transition go smoothly? Will awareness actions not be reduced or eliminated? How will you guarantee that the know-how of Cell Education and Prevention will not be lost? The info sheets of the VSV already show that the lessons will not be offered for free. The tumbler that is used at many events will also cost profit organisations. The schools in particular are asking a lot of questions about this today. What about the schools that have already received a commitment from the cells Education and Prevention for the next school year? Will they stand in the cold now or will they be able to call on their contributions in the coming year?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u27	The Sixth State Reform transferred certain powers to the Regions, including traffic education and awareness raising. This has brought the focus to the sub-areas. On 22 December 2015, the Federal Council of Ministers decided on a number of measures to implement the core tasks plan. The abolition of Cell Education and Prevention of Federal Road Police is one of the 20 measures. The capacity of the 35 staff, of which only 25 places are currently filled, will be fully re-injected into the area entities of the road police in order to focus on road safety. The tasks should be taken over by the Regions by 31 December of this year at the latest. Flanders has formally confirmed to be ready by 1 September. We will continue to support the other regions until 31 December of this year. The Federal Road Police have had discussions with the three Regions. I can assume the field is concerned about the takeover by the new partners. Every change creates a lot of concerns. I can tell you that we are working well with the Regions to ensure that the transfer and sharing of knowledge is as successful as possible. How the Regions will give practical effect to this is not within my competence. Flanders has already confirmed that it has developed an alternative offer, in collaboration with the Flemish Traffic Administration Foundation. This will start from 1 September 2016. The members of the CEP were informed at different times about the situation, whenever it changed or if there was new information. This was done either by the management of the road police themselves, the provincial service chiefs or the heads of the CEP. The first meeting with the members of the CEP was held in October 2015. On 23 December 2015, the members of the CEP were informed by e-mail about the decision of the Council of Ministers. On 16 March this year there was a meeting with the heads of the CEP. Subsequently, the abolition of the CEP was discussed at the meeting with the provincial heads of service and with the representative syndicates. Flanders has declared to be ready from 1 September 2016. A duplication was proposed to the VSV until 31 December 2016, but the VSV considered this offer unnecessary. Wallonia has requested that the tumble cars continue to be managed by the CEP until 31 December 2016. The same deadline is in place for the Brussels-Capital Region. The transitional periods will therefore run until the end of this year. There have been meetings with the regions concerned, with their partners, with the local police and with the federal police. In Flanders, the services of the provincial governors were also involved in the last consultation meeting and the first practical visits and arrangements have already been made for the transfer of the material and the registration of the customers. In Wallonia and the Brussels-Capital Region, this remains to be done. The completion of the tasks that will be carried out by the Regions after the surrender does not fall within my competence. The completion of the educational traffic tasks, transferred to the Regions, is not within my competence either. It seems logical to me that years of operation are not easy to match. As has just been said, a number of transfer arrangements have been made with the partners concerned in order to support this transfer as closely as possible. Finally, the schools that have CEP activities in their agenda after the CEP has been discontinued will receive a letter with the alternative offer from the partners in the regions. The CEP will no longer carry out these activities. The schools will be able to examine with a new partner whether they can come together to find an alternative within the new offer. Anyway, every current client of the CEP receives a letter announcing the termination and also the new offer. There is also a press release on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u28	Mr President, in order to avoid any misunderstandings, I do not, of course, question the transfer of this power. On the contrary, I think it is a good thing that the capacity released will be used by the traffic police. That is also very necessary, as I have mentioned a number of times in the past. There is no doubt about that. There is a second element, and I am not entirely satisfied with this. What you are quoting shows that there have been several communications to the members of the CEP, but some commitments to schools have been accepted. On the Flemish side, we also have the impression, when I look at questions from my fellow Members in the Flemish Parliament, that the VSV is not quite ready to accept these requests as of 1 September. That is why I have some concerns, but I assume that this will be followed up well and that communication between the members of the CEP and the VSV can be done in a good way, so that the planned traffic education activities, which are nevertheless important, can take place effectively in those schools next school year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u29	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Thiébaut converted 13052 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u30	Mr Minister, on 3 February last, in the Committee on the Interior, I asked you about the need for training in the management of large gatherings in the Brussels Region. In your reply, you spoke of a whole series of measures taken by the Brussels DirCo of the Federal Police, the police areas concerned on the issue of land. Thus, the Brussels DirCo would carry out various researches of places of training. He had temporarily found land at the port of Antwerp where it was possible to carry out exercises on intervention techniques as part of the negotiated management of public space. I take up the comments made in connection with this question which I asked you. "This is a private land that is being sold and currently managed by the federal police, allowing easy and free access. Therefore, in 2016, the Brussels DirCo will organise on this site the recycling exercises planned in the framework of Ministerial Circular MFO-2, which will be binding on staff of Brussels local police areas who will be engaged in the maintenance and restoration of public order in mortgaged capacity." In the long run, the proposal for a training centre at the site of the former Air Force Base in Goetsenhoven was well considered. At both the police and the Régie des Bâtiments level, this file was under consideration and is therefore being processed. On the other hand, you also pointed out that legal problems with the Flemish Government in particular existed on the destination of this land. You are currently negotiating with him to change the destination plan. On the basis of everything I have just presented, I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. What about the status of the Goetsenhoven study? Will this project be able to be completed? Have you succeeded in removing legal barriers in this area? You were talking about a first plan managed by the federal police and the local police for a budget of 230 million euros. Given this somewhat exaggerated amount, you asked for a review of this plan and a more realistic budget. Do you have more details about the new plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u31	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Kir, the revised Federal Police Study on the Integrated Training Centre was introduced early this year and is currently under analysis. This study included a full description of the activities to be carried out, their operational rationale and a needs program detailing the infrastructure to be developed on the site. Given the atypical nature of the work and its budgetary importance, the review of the study takes longer than originally planned. We hope to obtain agreement from the parties concerned by the end of this year. The Régie des Bâtiments will only be able to determine the feasibility of the project from the moment it has a needs program validated by the Finance Inspectorate accredited to the federal police. The investments to be considered on the site will depend primarily on the nature of the infrastructure to meet the specific needs of the federal police in terms of equipment and site development. In order to better assess and estimate the financial impact of such needs, the Federal Police and the Régie des Bâtiments, in consultation with the representatives concerned within my strategic cell, are currently analysing the various options and their respective budget allocations. The results of these analyses are expected to be available as part of the Federal Police Masterplan being developed and to be submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval in the last quarter of 2016. At the same time, Defence and the Régie des Bâtiments are jointly finalizing a concession project for the site concerned, the temporary provision of the site and its eventual final acquisition, in accordance with the needs programme to be approved under the Federal Police Masterplan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u32	Minister, thank you for your answers. As I understand it, the analyses are under way, both at the level of the study which took more time because of the imperatives of the field, but also on the issue of the assignment of the field. On the budgetary question, you refer us to the master plan which should be approved between September and November. You mentioned the third quarter of 2016. Mr Minister, I will of course come back to these matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u33	Mr President, Minister, this question was also addressed to your colleague Mr Franken this morning, but it could not be dealt with, because we were unable to reach the end of the agenda. I shall, however, question him and your colleague, Mr Geens. The press on 29 June 2016 echoed a bill by your colleague, Mr Franken, which would aim to force asylum seekers to submit their gsm and laptop to a check to establish their identity. According to him, a European directive makes it possible to implement such a provision in Belgium. Police officers will be present at the Foreign Office to carry out this operation. However, the application of Article 8 of the European Court of Human Rights implies that only infringements of private life are allowed, subject to the following conditions: "There may be interference by a public authority in the exercise of this right only if such interference is provided for by law and constitutes a measure which, in a democratic society, is necessary for national security, public safety, the economic well-being of the country, the defence of order and the prevention of criminal offences, the protection of health or morals, or the protection of the rights and freedoms of others". You were questioned in this regard and correctly replied: "I have no information about gsm controls. No, that's not the case, we're just screening on the basis of people's identity. These people aren't criminals. We'll check if they're in our databases or in international databases."There you add a founding element: "But we're starting from the principle that they're not criminals, so I don't see why we need to trace their gsm, etc." Minister, what is your opinion and how are you going to position yourself in relation to your colleague, who is in charge of this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u34	Mr Kir, at the time this question was tabled, I was not aware of what Mr Franken had seen in Denmark. I confirm my words: for me, refugees are not criminals. Therefore, we must not resort to such methods of investigation. However, in case of doubt, the examination of the gsm or pc may be used to ascertain the true identity of the person concerned. This is what is happening in Denmark. It is therefore not a question of using special investigative methods, as we are doing to confuse a criminal. We are talking here about a means of verification in case of hesitation. It seems useful and interesting to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u35	Minister, I am reassured that you are confirming your point of view. You have been very careful in explaining the methods used in Denmark. It would be useful to understand how the Danish model had been put in place. In any case, it seems to me that we should take such measures in exceptional cases when we are not in a position to verify someone's identity. As you said, refugees are not criminals. We must avoid giving the impression that the other is a threat. Behind this project is a way of tarnishing the refugee. This is simply unacceptable. That is why your comments have been highly appreciated by civil society. Refugees are not criminals, it's obvious! That is why we must treat people equally. There must be no exception in the treatment of individuals, be they Belgian or foreign, especially when they are refugees. We will, of course, come back to this issue with your colleagues. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u36	Mr President, Minister, Belgium was hit hard by the double attack on Brussels and Zaventem on 22 March. Through the pain of the direct victims of these attacks, it is the whole of our society and our values that have been tested. Such events provoke reflections, questions requiring analysis at each level of our institutions' functioning in order to improve them. A working group comprising the six police areas in Brussels has been set up with a view to formulating a series of recommendations, proposals which bring them together around a joint project: the optimisation of the functioning of the police services in the Brussels Region. These were also validated at the Conference of Chiefs of Corps on 26 April 2016. Nevertheless, I would like to remind you that the Act of 26 March 2014 on the optimisation of the Federal Police is also intended to increase support for police areas, by strengthening the operational capacity of the Federal Police to support police areas. Unfortunately, however, there is a lack of investment by the federal police and the unfortunate weakening of DirCo's function in Brussels. It would therefore be essential, first and foremost, for the Federal Police to take an explicit position on the service it is still able to provide for Brussels at the level of the police zones. Without greater solidarity among the six police areas and without collaboration supported by the new coordinating role of the Brussels Region, the lack of resources, operational staff and federal support would be felt even more severely. But we need as much coordination as we need these federal reinforcements. On the basis of this information, I would like to ask you the following questions. Will the role of the Federal Police in Brussels be reviewed and strengthened in support of police areas? In the new articulation of federal, regional and communal competences, how do you envisage the role of the DirCo and what means will it have to do with its tasks? What about the recognition of the role of capital and the police resources allocated to it to take into account the obligations arising from this status? A commitment on your part had been made in the spring of last year to the Brussels Conference of Mayors to assess the adequacy of the KUL standard, a welcome announcement, especially since the government agreement announced that this standard would not be reviewed during the parliamentary term. When will you report on the findings of this analysis?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u37	Mr Kir, the federal police are currently making considerable efforts to strengthen Brussels areas in various areas. In the fight against radicalism and terrorism, a specific action plan, the Canal Plan, has been set up. It covers several areas, one of which has already received police personnel, made available by the Federal Police. Within this framework, a steering group and thematic working groups are carrying out their activities in order to improve the processes and efficiency of services. Finally, the Director-Coordinator is responsible for the functioning of the local task force, which aims to ensure optimal monitoring of the problem of extremism and radicalism and the field. This investment will improve general safety in Brussels. In the area of law and order management, the federal police began strengthening the federal reserve to better meet the event management needs of the areas. In the same area, the Brussels Task Force, the ICK, has reorganised in order to develop its operational flexibility to better meet the needs of the areas. In the field of public transport safety, the Director-Coordinator was responsible for developing, in consultation with the areas, a strategic plan to improve the security and police presence on the network, in an integrated and integrated approach. Finally, in summary, the Federal Police, through the Director-Coordinator, and within the existing frame of reference, is committed to contributing to the security and optimisation of the police services by focusing on coordination, in a climate of transparency and respect for each other's competencies. In this context, the role of the Director-Coordinator is first and foremost part of the legal powers vested in him. This role is important for the federal police, but certainly also for the local police. The Director-Coordinator shall provide and organize support to the areas, in accordance with the rules in force. It must also act as a catalyst between the various entities, in order to accompany the latest institutional reforms in terms of competences assigned to the Brussels-Capital Region, in particular with regard to the coordination of security policies. It must do so without losing sight of the needs and expectations of all partners. Its role as facilitator and federator is essential for the balance between the two levels of integrated police. The human resources allocated are those provided for in the OT3, published in the Belgian Monitor of 30 October 2015, and the material means associated with them. In human terms, we are talking about 323 full-time equivalents. In addition to the specific measures planned for Brussels areas via the Federal Police, I can only confirm that all the financial mechanisms planned take account of the particular situation in Brussels as a capital: federal allocation, recruitment allocation, funds for top Europeans, etc. I can only repeat that the revision of the KUL standard is not an objective of the government agreement. I said it several times. I have always been very honest and very direct on this point. I'm not going to surprise you, but I am, and I remain, seeking optimisation and economies of scale in the Brussels police areas. A voluntary analysis at the police area level would be welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u38	Minister, thank you for all your answers. On the KUL standard, I think you started a reflection. I did not say that the government agreement provided for the amendment of the standard. You said you were ready to talk about it. Today, I see that you are less open to the question and return to the line of the government agreement. On budgetary and financial issues, you refer us to the existing mechanisms. I would point out, however, that your departments have been the subject of considerable savings both in terms of staff, in terms of operation and in terms of investment. It is therefore urgent to invest more than ever in your departments and to fight within the Council of Ministers for more resources. As for the Canal Plan, you already told us that an area had been supported. If I understand correctly, it takes time to implement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u39	The initial schedule was to start in Schaerbeek and Vilvorde. That's what we did. Before the end of the year, we planned to expand to the other municipalities. The capacity of 300 officers on the judicial and administrative sides must be met before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u40	I still have a technical question about strengthening the federal police. You said it was happening. You can answer me in writing or I can come back after the holidays to understand a little how you intend to strengthen the federal reserve. Mr. Chair, I would like to thank the minister again for the additional responses, and it is in this context that I table my recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u41	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Emir Kir and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr. Emir Kir and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Interior, responsible for the Régie des Bâtiments, recommends to the Government - the establishment of a permanent regional command and crisis centre as a prerequisite for the proper functioning of police and rescue services; - the circulation of police information by strengthening the federal-local link and using new technologies; - to reinvest in the ERIP – a police school for Brussels police areas and personnel – so that it can take over all the trainings but also the GPI 48 (tir and self defence), the FTX GNEP (negotiated management of the public space) and the AMOK trainings. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Emir Kir and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr. Emir Kir and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Home Affairs, with responsibility for the Directorate of Buildings, advises the government - establish a regionally permanent command and crisis centre as a prerequisite for the proper functioning of the police and emergency services; - to ensure the flow of police information by strengthening the link between federal and local levels and using new technologies; - to reinvest in the GIP a police school for the areas and staff of the Brussels police, so that they could take care of all training courses, as well as GPI 48 training (shooting training and self-defense), BTX exercises and training in the management of public space, as well as AMOK training. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koenraad Degroote A simple motion was tabled by Mr Conseil Degroote. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u42	Mr President, Minister, I asked you last May about security during the major events and the information brought to the mayor so that he could be better empowered to take certain security measures. As I said last time, for a mayor in whose territory major events are taking place, such as the setting up of a giant screen during the Euro, this is an important responsibility, especially with regard to the police means at his disposal to implement the measures necessary to ensure the protection of the participants. You told me that, soon, you were going to give the mayor the opportunity to apply for a security clearance. If the mayor has it, he will be able to obtain more accurate information to manage the safety of an event. Minister, when will this measure be put in place? What steps will need to be taken to obtain this authorization?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u43	Mr Delannois, after my statements, I looked for ways to obtain a security clearance. It is currently possible for a mayor to apply for security clearance by normal means, which means a voluntary and personal request – no one can be forced to do so – to the National Security Authority. You will then be subject to a security investigation by the State Security. After a positive assessment, you get a security clearance. But a security clearance does not have the right to get all the information: only information within the limits of what is necessary to know, need to know principal. This also requires a security officer to follow up and aftercare. There is still a need to examine how this will be organized. It is also necessary to analyse in depth the possibility that I have proposed an accelerated procedure security clearance or an authorization which is given on the word of honour to all the mayors. That is why I am not going to give a deadline; first, I want to clarify the different modalities. Moreover, the National Security Authority does not fall within my competence but rather within the competence of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. As I have already told you, if you want a security clearance to better manage your office, you are free to initiate a voluntary procedure with the Authority. I will see if it is not possible to speed up the procedure on the basis of a simple declaration by a mayor by speaking with my colleague Mr Reynders, the minister responsible for this Authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u44	Question No 13076 by Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u45	Mr. Chair, Minister, at the June 22 meeting, you answered a question about your May 24, 2016 circular. This circular, which deals mainly with the organisation of 24-hour shifts, has given rise to many questions, whether at the organizational level for those in charge of relief zones or from the point of view of workers' organizations. The answer you give to this parliamentary question sheds light on the scientific reasons and foundations that led you to take this circular, but unfortunately it is still very vague on two essential points. If I may quote from the report, I would like to draw two short excerpts from it. You will understand why I would like to come back to the subject. Mr Minister, as regards the advisability of reform, you say: "I will discuss with the various partners and bodies concerned, including trade unions, what is the best timing for possible reform." And further on, you say: "In one body, formerly communal, the 24 hours were feasible and not in another. So I sent a circular asking not to generalize the 24 hours because there were problems. But if we are to change the rules, we need consultation. So I just gave an opinion." Minister, on the one hand, how do the various bodies have to follow up on this circular? In reading you, I understand your willingness to resolve the practical problems posed by the implementation of the relief zones. But I wonder to what extent what you describe in your answer as an "opinion" is not likely to add to the confusion? All in all, the problem that you present as the origin of your circular is unfortunately not yet solved, since it is essentially a question of standardizing the organization of work within areas of bodies whose mode of operation could be disparate. And so, whether it is in one direction or another, does it not require consultation in all cases? Is harmonisation not desirable in the absolute future? And that is naturally the second point on which I would like to return. As I read you, I have the feeling that your will is good to move towards a reform on which I will of course not vote. I wonder, however, about the consultations you are considering. Which partners are involved? Have you ever taken any initiatives in this area? If so, which ones? If not, do you still intend to do so before the end of the parliamentary year? Or will you rather wait for September?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u46	Mr Blanchart, as explained to Mrs Matz on 22 June, the main objective of my circular of 24 May was to prevent the 24-hour shift system from being extended to posts other than those to which it was applied before the transition to the emergency zone. Such an extension would constitute a violation of both the Belgian State's international commitments and the prevailing principle of standstill in respect of working conditions. The principle of standstill clearly prohibits, according to case law and doctrine, a significant reduction in the protection that the regulation offered before it was amended. This is a form of protection of acquired rights. Decisions on human resources management fall within the jurisdiction of the relief zones and may vary depending on regional and local circumstances: whether or not voluntary staff are present, whether or not they are available according to hours and days, risk analysis and statistical distribution of interventions according to hours and days. With regard to the issue of ending the 24-hour shift in the short term, my circular drew the attention of the zonal authorities to various issues relating to the health and safety of firefighters, the risk of professional errors and the management of human resources. This simple reminder of the rules of law in no way alters the existing situation and has no regulatory aspects. You will agree with me that precipitation is rarely good counselor. From a legal point of view, there is no urgency in changing the existing situation. Other aspects of the issue relate to well-being at work from the point of view of prevention and occupational medicine. Before negotiating a possible regulatory project with the various partners – the trade unions, the Unions of cities and communes and firefighters' federations – it would first be necessary to determine the new limit that would be subject to negotiation. In other words, if many scientific studies show the absolute harmfulness of the 24-hour shift, it would still be necessary to examine the relative harmfulness of the shift in relation to 8, 12 or 16-hour shift, for example. Before drafting any legislation on this subject, it is necessary to seek the advice of experts on occupational well-being in its aspects related to prevention and occupational medicine. As a first step, in order to have all the relevant information, my services will contact the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation, which benefits from an undeniable expertise in this field. In conclusion, the choice will be left to those areas which, before the reform, allowed the 24-hour shift to continue as before, but no new areas will be added to this system.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u47	Minister, your answers are very clear. Looking at a 16-hour system, for example, which seems more relevant for the various reasons mentioned in the circular, this will give the zones and employers time to be able to organize the operation at a rate that will be much easier to set up. If this had been organized in haste, the functioning of the personnel services would have had to be completely remodelled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u48	Minister, I would like to ask you about this problem, which comes directly from the field. The Germinalt police area is faced with a bill of over 185,000 euros to pay as a result of police support at Jamioulx prison during the strike. Support that has been essential and indispensable to prison management. Indeed, since the beginning of the prison guards' strike, the Germinalt police area has ensured the proper functioning of the institution. In all, more than 2,400 hours were spent in the prison by local police officers. A shortage has been felt because they have not been replaced in the field due in particular to the lack of officers and funding. So the work stayed on the side, accumulated and will have to settle down over time. This €185,000 is the estimated additional cost for police services, meals and travel during the two-month strike. This represents 2 per cent of the overall budget of the police zone. It's a bill that has a lot of difficulty passing through the various municipalities. The Germinalt police area has indeed sent a recommendation to the government, mainly to your colleague Minister of Justice. The Chief of Corps believes that it is not up to the municipalities to pay for what does not represent basic missions for them. Minister, have you had any contact on this matter with your colleague Minister of Justice? Although there is a federal allocation for intervention in prisons, we are faced with an emergency situation, which is also exceptional because of its proportion. It is detrimental to the area. Are you considering a refund, a federal compensation for this area? What measures are you planning to take to prevent a similar situation that would be repeated in order to ensure the services of the police and to ensure the safety of the areas and citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u49	Mr Blanchart, after checking at the level of my indicator service, I have not yet received the recommendation from the Germinalt Thuin police area to the government. In recent months, we have all been confronted with large-scale simultaneous events, which have had an unprecedented impact on all police services: the asylum crisis, terrorist threats and attacks, and, as you rightly point out, long-term strikes in prisons. In order to be able to cope with such a burden on our police system, even in exceptional circumstances, in 1998 the legislator provided for the necessary mechanisms of burden-sharing and inter-police solidarity based on balances supported and accepted and, to answer your second question, largely offset each year by a financial contribution from the federal government, including federal staffing. In this context, the local police must carry out, in accordance with the Integrated Police Act, federal tasks determined by binding directives (MFO) of the Minister of the Interior and/or the Minister of Justice. These missions, including law enforcement and security missions within penal institutions in its territory - the MFO-1 directive - are therefore fully part of the local police missions for which support from the federal and other police areas through the HyCap system can be provided. It goes without saying that the stalemate in prison strikes has created a huge and cumulative impact on the operationality of the entire integrated police force. The federal level is also faced with the additional cost of strikes in prisons. The only invoice for the federal support provided by the Defence already amounts to more than 650 000 euros and almost 450,000 euros for the commitment of the Civil Protection, without mentioning the additional costs to be borne by the Federal Police. I have received several letters from French-speaking police areas concerning the problem of strikes in prisons and the provision of police services. I have sent these letters to my colleague the Minister of Justice and have asked to speed up the implementation of a minimum service in prison institutions, as provided for in the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u50	Minister, thank you for your answers. Although funding is provided at the grass-roots level for federal missions, here it is the magnitude of the phenomenon that has resulted in all the police areas appearing as a result of this 60-day strike. We will therefore await the response of your colleague the Minister of Justice. In the meantime, do you intend to take preventive measures in relation to these phenomena, which can be repeated and which can have an impact on police areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u51	The minimum service is the structural solution. Planning for the workforce in the event of a strike calls for the mobilization of too many personnel. That's not right!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u52	Minister, according to an audit by the Court of Auditors, there is a need for a fundamental debate on the funding of federal police support for local areas. In the first instance, there is a problem in assessing the risks and the necessary resources. According to the Court of Auditors, these assessments differ from one zone to another. As a precaution, certain chiefs of police are asking for maximum capacity, which is not always necessary. There is also a problem of resources. The restrictions are due not only to savings but also to the organisational structure and culture of the federal police themselves. In its audit, the Court of Auditors points, inter alia, to the fragmentation of the federal intervention corps. According to the Court of Auditors, the administrative directors-co-ordinators or DirCos do not have sufficient resources and powers. The court also made a number of comments about HyCap. The Court therefore recommends better coordination between the departments, a joint regulation and a geographical recast of the federal intervention corps as well as a reflection on the KUL standard. According to the Court of Auditors, the federal police fully agree with the conclusions and recommendations. In the meantime, as Minister for Security and Home Affairs, you have responded in the sense that you want to thoroughly review and reform the overall mobilisation capacity and solidarity mechanisms within the integrated police force in order to ensure a better and increased impact in the future. Minister, can you respond to the Court of Auditors' conclusions and recommendations? Can you list the measures that will initially respond to these conclusions and recommendations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u53	The very recent conclusions and recommendations resulting from the audit of the Court of Auditors, the federal police's support to local areas in the enforcement of public order, are to a large extent to my support. Nevertheless, on the one hand, it seems to me that a number of findings, which are entirely justified and correct from a theoretical-conceptual management perspective and in a stable environment, such as activity-based budgeting, measurable targets with follow-up indicators and tools, customer-oriented services and so on, should be taken into account. To this end, I refer to the complex, diversified and unpredictable nature of the administrative support and the security context in which it takes place, both in the federal, supralocal and local areas. On the other hand, I would like to take this opportunity to clarify that some of the restrictions that have been laid down are not always due to the organisational structure and culture of the federal police. Complex procurement procedures or coherence between policy, management and budget cycles are critical factors for a general, professional and successful action by the federal police, but it has no or only limited control of this. I have devoted the greatest attention to the conclusions and recommendations on the division of labour and coordination, which point the finger at the real wound that has only become more visible in recent months and days. I'm talking about the MFO 2, the HyCap, the CIK. The police are faced with large-scale and simultaneous events, such as terrorism, the asylum crisis, transmigration, summer events and so on, which have an unseen impact on the services of the integrated police, making the boundaries of the inter-political solidarity determined by the legislator in order to be able to cope with these facts even in exceptional circumstances very tangible and palpable. For this reason, two police working groups Solidarity HyCap and Concept HyCap were tasked with representatives of the two police levels to submit proposals for improvements to the HyCap mechanism and, by extension, the re-engineering of the mandatory Ministerial Directive MFO 2. The results are expected by the end of the year. The general inspection of the federal police and the local police has also been commissioned to clearly identify the problems mentioned above and to propose solutions. Furthermore, the issue is also dealt with monthly on the consultation I organise with the police summit, the management committee of the federal police and the day-to-day administration of the Local Police Permanent Committee. Just yesterday, we discussed the issue in great detail and, above all, possible ways of improving and resolving the challenges of police engagement in administrative tasks. Although the revision of the KUL standard is not an objective of the coalition agreement, the issue of financing has also been addressed. In principle, the costs generated by federal assignments should be covered through the federal donation. Taking into account the results of the working groups and analyses I mentioned, I will examine to what extent a system of remuneration and/or sanctioning is possible. There is therefore no further argument that I agree with the findings and recommendations in this regard. Once diagnostics have been refined, through the above-mentioned work, I will take initiatives to thoroughly review and reform the overall mobilisation capacity and solidarity mechanism within the integrated police. In addition, I put the end of this year at the forefront of timing. My intention and our intention is to ensure a better and increased operational impact in the near future on the challenges and expectations that are still to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u54	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and wish him every success in this important dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u55	Wish each other luck is always good, Mrs. Battheu.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u56	You had first asked this question to the Minister of Justice, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, but it will be answered here by the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u57	It is a follow-up question, Minister. In the early December part-session, you replied to questions on this issue. At that time, you said that the Home Office was testing an app/alarm button, which would allow doctors in emergency situations to send a signal to 112 immediately. The problem was unfortunately very topical at the time, because in that week a doctor from our province, Mr President, from Ingelmunster, was stabbed by a patient during a house visit. You said then, Minister, that the app would be implemented and delivered to the GPs if the results of the test were satisfactory. Recently, the Action Group Patrick Roelandt Anti-Aggression Group also launched some proposals. Among other things, the group asks that general practitioners be given the right to require police supervision when visiting a risk patient. In the Chamber on 24 February, you said that there is a working group working on what measures can be taken to combat preventive violence against doctors. You also said that the day after the first meeting of the working party was planned. I would like to hear a state of affairs today. Has the test period been completed with the app/alarm button? What are the results, if any? What are your views on the proposals of the Action Group Patrick Roelandt Anti-Aggression Group? What is the state of play in the work of the working group you have set up?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u58	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, the 112 app is ready for the emergency power stations running on the CAD ASTRID. As you know, we still have two systems on the emergency power stations: the ones that operate with ASTRID, and the others that remain in the old CityGIS system. The 112 app is therefore ready for the emergency power stations running on the CAD ASTRID. The pilot project and the tests showed that there are still some technical shortcomings for the other system, namely CityGIS. They're being dealt with now. By September, the app will also be ready for that system, followed by an information campaign. I repeat that the 112 app is a solution for doctors and safety professionals, but all other people will also be able to use it. So the app isn't just there for the general practitioners. In the cluster on violence, personal integrity and discrimination under the Integrated Security Framework Paper, specific attention is paid to violence against safety professionals and healthcare providers. Violence against safety professionals or health care providers jeopardises the availability of safety care and assistance and must be addressed decisively, both preventively and repressively. This is also translated into the National Security Plan. At the level of the solar safety consultation, measures can then be discussed and implemented, together with the representatives of the care providers, on the basis of the local security situation. The police supervision of the local police during a house visit to a risk patient is an example of this. At present, the various proposals of the Action Group P.R.A.A.G. researched by my administration. For this purpose, an official working group has been set up, in collaboration with the FPS Justice and the FPS Public Health, with the aim of making concrete proposals to improve the safety of the general practitioners. This working group is composed of the general practitioners of Flanders and Wallonia, the Order of Doctors and the P.R.A.A.G. which is very active in that exercise. A tool of prevention measures for general practitioners is currently being developed. The focus in the working group is initially on raising awareness and informing the general practitioners about prevention of violence and theft. Secondly, it will reflect on awareness among patients for the respect of the aid workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u59	Thank you for that state of affairs, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u60	Mr President, Minister, Article 9 states that, subject to the special authorisation of the College of Mayors and Ships, it is prohibited to sell spirits for use on the spot in occasional drinks venues open in places where public events take place. In certain police areas, such as in my police area, the link is made between an authorisation to serve such spirits and the ban on having less than 16-year-olds present on that activity. Since 1 April 2016, in my police zone Arro Yeper there is a zonal police regulation, which states that in case an organizer of a party, party or event requests permission from the college in application of the regulations spirits drinks, it is forbidden for less than 16-year-olds to be present. The problem now arises that one of the cities in the police area assumes that this does not apply to them, as no permit or authorisation should be requested from them. That is why I have the following questions for clarification, Minister. Can you clarify Article 9 of the Law of 28 December 1983? Is that a general obligation, should we ask for special authorization everywhere in the cases listed in that article or are there any exceptions to it? Can you confirm that a party is indeed a public cultural event, as mentioned in Article 9? Is it right that organisers should ask for special permission from the college to serve spirits in their occasional drinks? What is the possible sanction in case the law on this point is not correctly applied?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u61	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, in relation to your first question, this is a federal law, so it applies throughout the territory. With regard to your second and third questions, the third paragraph of that article reads as follows: "Save special authorization from the College of Mayors and ships, it is prohibited to sell spirits for use on the spot in occasional drinks open in places where public events take place, such as sporting, political and cultural events. This means that a special authorisation of the College of Mayors and ships is always required for the provision of spirits at such events, for example a cycling race, an annual market and so on. In the case of fermented drinks, the rules for an occasional drink facility apply, to determine a formality by the municipality, except if the event lasts longer than 15 days, because then we again talk about a, albeit temporary, fixed drink facility. Thus, when a manifestation lasts 15 days or more, one falls into another category, namely that of the fixed drinking facility, even if it is only temporary, for example three weeks. The Law of 15 December 2005 on administrative simplification provides that municipalities may decide autonomously on any formalities to be carried out by organisers of temporary establishments. That law entered into force on 7 January 2006. Since 7 January 2006, it is the municipality that decides whether and under what form the donation of fermented and/or spirits at parties and events is subject to a licence. Thus, the law no longer imposes any obligations, but the legislator does leave open the possibility for municipal authorities to determine autonomously to what extent they still impose prior authorisations or conditions. Indeed, several municipalities still apply a permit or at least a notification. In this way, the municipal board is aware of events and parties and can inform the organisers and those responsible about the legal obligations. Therefore, the exact legal basis for the abolition of the liquor licence for occasional drinks can be found in the 2006 information note on administrative simplification. Thus, only for the sale of spirits for local use in occasional drinks in places where public sporting, political and cultural events take place, there must always be a special authorisation from the College of Mayors and Ships. Now we could discuss for a long time what an occasional drink is exactly. The Act of 28 December 1983 defines that: 'The drinks listed in advance as such which, as a result of any event of transitory nature, are held not more than ten times a year and not more than 15 consecutive days by a circle, company or private association, with the exception of commercial companies and de facto profit-making associations.' Drinking establishments held at exhibitions and fairs shall be deemed to be occasional drinks establishments for the entire duration of the exhibition or fair, regardless of the operator's capacity. As an operator of the premises, the operator must have a licence if he wishes to give fermented and/or spirits because he is not covered by the above definition. On the other hand, the organiser of an occasional drink facility is no longer subject to an obligation of authorisation by law. Now I come to your fourth question. If the holder of a drinker fails to obtain a special authorization, he shall be prohibited from giving spirits. According to Article 26 (1), (1) of the Act, any offence not punishable by Articles 24 and 25 of the Law may not be punishable by a fine of EUR 125 to EUR 625 for failure to obtain a special authorisation. Article 28 provides that the spirit drink which is the subject of the infringements referred to in Article 9 shall be seized and forfeited.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u62	Minister, that was quite a sandwich not to express it in terms of drink.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u63	A sturdy pint of beer!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u64	Thank you for your answer, that I will take to my area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u65	Minister, a protocol has been under way for some time with the bailiffs to reduce police assistance to bailiffs to assistance where necessary and requested. I would like to have an update on the development of this protocol. Will this possibly lead to an amendment of the law?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u66	At the request of the bailiffs and myself, a first draft national protocol between the bailiffs and the police was drawn up last summer from the police. That proposal was rejected by the bailiffs. In the meantime, a further consultation is taking place with the National Chamber of Court Bailiffs, this time at the level of my cabinet. A protocol is in preparation and the intention is to conclude this end this year. In the context of the Police Key Task Plan and increasing the police force, the Core Task Working Group8 was also set up to optimise the assistance to bailiffs and notaries. This working group, drawn by a representative of the local police, examines the assistance and support tasks of the local police for the benefit of bailiffs and notaries. It has already been found in this working group that legislative changes will certainly be necessary, for example as regards the possibility of carrying out an attachment at home without the obligatory presence of the police. A legal analysis was carried out and proposals were made. However, I cannot go into this now, because both the police and the bailiffs must first find a basis for support.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u67	Mr President, we are sticking to the drinks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u68	You are also chairman of the parliamentary group of Belgian beers, if I am not mistaken.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u69	Mr President, that is correct. However, it is a coincidence that I have a number of such questions to ask today. Minister, the statistics of the federal and local police for 2015 published at the end of June 2016 showed that in 2015 nearly 50 000 fines were issued for driving under the influence. That's an average of 137 a day. The Local Police Permanent Commission recently called on all local corps to take at least a P-test with a sampler with each driver they stop. That device takes back the presence of alcohol in the ambient air of the Audi A6 without the driver having to blow directly into the device. The ultimate intention would be to In a reaction, you advanced 2.1 million alcohol controls as an objective by the end of 2016. That is reported to be 75% more than in 2015. The government agreement is also clear about the number of controls. Reference is made to the achievement of the State-General's Road Safety target of checking one out of three drivers for alcohol, drugs and seat belts and 40 million vehicles at speed. Both the VSOA police union and the BIVV argue for more checks at times when it is necessary, namely at night and during weekends. In the Chambers Committee of 3 February 2016, you pointed out the additional costs of night checks, due to additional fees for staff. We are talking about 20 to 25 % and we are talking about 167 % for weekend nights. Finally, I would like to put three questions to you today. First of all, how do you feel about the call of the Local Police Permanent Commission to make "blowing stops" a mandatory rule? Are you planning an initiative in this respect? Secondly, how many samplers would it take to implement that measure? What's the budget against that? Thirdly, could you possibly outline the evolution of the number of alcohol controls over the last five years with the financial picture?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u70	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, the principle of "stopping blowing" has its origins in the COL of August 2006. It states that any driver who is kept in a traffic check must be subject to an alcohol check. So this is applied to both local and federal police. Federal road police have been applying the principle of stoppages for years. The introduction has been gradual since 2008. Then she carried out 125 000 alcohol checks. Since 2010, the intermediate standard of 240,000 breath tests for federal police has been achieved annually. This figure is calculated according to the 80/20 key on a total of 1.2 million breath tests, of which 20% is taken on behalf of the federal road police. The local police applies the principle of "stopping" = blowing "blowing" within the finality of checks carried out by its traffic services. The Permanent Commission of Local Police is not a asking party to roll out this principle force-wide to other services, such as local detectives. At present, the VCLP is working on a reflection exercise to introduce more quality into the controls where a balance has to be found between quantity, being objective objectives, and quality. In short, for reasons of road safety, changing attitudes, culture among drivers, as the structural effectiveness and efficiency of the measure, is certainly to be investigated, but the generalisation of the principles is not realistic and cannot be achieved by the federal police or by the local police. At present, only the police traffic services are involved. In the area of local police traffic services, it is possible to develop this standard in order to provide regular operation, as is already the case with the federal police. Today, in most cases, it is limited to the control actions and/or in the corps where this Directive has been given. I cannot therefore impose this measure, referring to the local autonomy of the police zones and the directives of the Justice Department, contained in the above-mentioned COL. For your second question I can refer to my answer to question No. 12817 by Mrs Jadin. I have dealt with this problem in this regard. I repeat the most important elements of that answer. It is not possible to put an exact figure forward for the purchase of the number of samplers. This requires first a need assessment at the level of the integrated police. The market for the purchase of sampling devices within the federal police is still running and 83 sampling devices are being purchased for the federal police. The cost of a sampler is about 450 euros. A full set with charger and case costs 650 euros, VAT included. Local police areas wishing to do so may register to order aircraft when this market is awarded. Subject to obstacles in this dossier, the award of the market is still planned for this year. Local police services can also register in this market. In addition, there are devices purchased by provincial authorities that can be used by both local and federal police forces. Police areas may also purchase such devices with their own budget or resources. At federal level, it is impossible to provide an overview for all police forces of the number of devices in use and/or estimated for use. With regard to the federal road police, if the Federal Road Police's establishment plan were fully completed and if it had the sampling devices, it would in principle be able to achieve 420 000 performances. A possible increase in breath performance requires a chain-oriented approach according to the VCLP. In the context of administrative simplification, not only the market for new samplers is an important one, but also and in particular the new market for the new breath test and analysis machines, whereby the data data of each appliance can be automatically recovered in the PV. This will lead to a further piece of administrative simplification. In addition to this new approach, the difficult balance between quality and quantity must also be achieved, with a view to road safety. The VCLP initiated this process during the winter-PDO campaign of 2015-2016. The phased realization of the different factors will allow us to respond appropriately to the different objectives. As far as evolution is concerned, outside the PDO campaigns, not all alcohol tests are registered by the local police. However, this will be encouraged in the near future through simplified registration with the support of the VCLP, allowing an accurate picture of the number of tests throughout the year. The federal road police will record their checks all year round. I will give you a table which provides a simple picture of the number of checks, during the night and the day, over the last five years in the different provinces. There you can relax in grass dunes. I'll get you that information as far as the local police are concerned. Logically, the number of decreased breath tests during the day is higher than at night, as there is more police capacity on the track during the day. The traffic offer is also larger during the day than at night. The night checks often involve special actions and patrols of mobile teams. The calculation of the total cost is a difficult exercise. Different factors should be taken into account, such as the time needed to carry out the control. An alcohol check may be part of any type of outdoor service, but may only take a short time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic478x.u71	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will look carefully at the figures.
