ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u2	Ms Turtelboom took up her duties as a member of the Chamber of Representatives from 29 April 2016. Ms. Turtelboom resumed her duties as a member of the House of Representatives on 29 April 2016. I thank Mr Frank Wilrycx, who replaced her during her mandate as Minister in the Flemish Government. I would like to thank Mr Frank Wilrycx, who has replaced him for the duration of his term as Minister for the Flemish Government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u3	By letter of 2 May 2016, the Prime Minister shall transmit a copy of the Royal Decree of 2 May 2016 entitled "Government discharge'. By letter dated May 2, 2016, the Prime Minister transmitted a copy of the Royal Order of May 2, 2016 entitled "Government – Resignation – Appointment".
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u4	By letter dated 25 April 2016, Mr Philippe De Backer informed the President of the European Parliament that he had been appointed a member of the Belgian federal government on 2 May 2016. By letter of 25 April 2016, Mr Philippe De Backer informed the President of the European Parliament that he had been appointed a member of the federal government on 2 May 2016. In accordance with Article 6 (1) of the Act of 20 September 1976 concerning the election of representatives of the European Parliament by direct universal suffrage, that function is incompatible with the mandate of a Member of the European Parliament. In accordance with Article 6(1) of the Act of 20 September 1976 on the election of representatives to the European Parliament by direct universal suffrage, this function is incompatible with the term of office of a Member of the European Parliament. The successor who is eligible to replace Mr Philippe De Backer is Mrs Lieve Wierinck. The alternate to replace Mr Philippe De Backer is Ms Lieve Wierinck. It appears that it still fulfils the eligibility conditions laid down in Articles 1 and 41 of the Law of 23 March 1989 concerning the election of the European Parliament. It appears that it still fulfils the eligibility conditions laid down in Articles 1 and 41 of the Act of 23 March 1989 on the election of the European Parliament. In order to enable Mrs Lieve Wierinck to exercise her mandate as a Member of the European Parliament, I propose that she be proposed as a Member of the European Parliament. In order to enable Mrs Lieve Wierinck to exercise her mandate as a Member of the European Parliament, I propose that you present her as a Member of the European Parliament. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u5	Prime Minister, the European Commission has just delivered its economic forecasts and they confirm all our fears. Your policy plunges the country into a double marasm. First of all, an economic crisis, because, after two years, Belgian growth is well below the European average. A budgetary stalemate then, in view of the development of the structural deficit. The result is that you are in an unfortunate position, because you are losing the ultimate justification for your austerity policy, namely the economic recovery, which has been announced many times, but which is not on the table. For the past two years, you've been talking to us about supporting business activity to justify your multiple gifts to employers and shareholders. You claim to create jobs, but the results, in the light of the sacrifices inflicted on the population, do not impress anyone and will never forget your repeated attacks on social dialogue, social rights and household incomes. And in the end, after the Court of Auditors and the Monitoring Committee, this is the European Commission that confirms the budgetary precariousness in which you plunge the country. You claimed to improve the structural balance by 0.6%. It is close to 0.35% of GDP, or 1.5 billion euros, that the Commission deviates from your calculations. It points to evanescent tax revenues, such as a gift to diamond dealers or a bank tax. It also points to false savings, such as the redesign of the administration, which does not correspond to anything. The icing on the cake is a very heavy sword of Damocles, that of the billion new spending on security and asylum, which could well be part of your structural deficit. Prime Minister, public finances to this point of weakness will correspond in the short term to a new shipment of bills to our fellow citizens, as you have always done. What immediate lessons will you learn from the wrong bulletin of the European Commission? When will you finally get out of your denial of reality? How are you finally going to pursue an economic and fiscal policy far removed from your austerity ideology?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, I understand very well that you have made every effort in the world this morning not to have to answer these questions. You have a political problem. You can be quite stolen. But your political problem is also the problem of 11 million Belgians, and this report, day after day, makes it clearer. Let me go over the list with you, so that this time it will get through to this majority and into your head, Prime Minister. At the end of April, it is announced that we are in the only two countries where the rate of activity is falling. Only two countries in Europe and Belgium are one of them. On Monday, the Price Observatory makes it clear that our countrymen's lives will be more expensive thanks to the tax shift, thanks to the many invoices, thanks to the electricity bill here and thanks to the Turtel tax across the street. There is another Energy Minister, but that tax is still there. Mr Dewael, work on that within your party. Yesterday there was the CO2 report from Eurostat, Belgium is among the worst pupils. Then there is the European Commission's report on the budget and growth forecasts. There too, Belgium is a poor student of the class. The budget is not getting in order. Everyone says once again that Minister Van Overtveldt's tax measures are not correct. That finance minister's getting his shit together, but he's not gonna get his shit together. The growth rates are disappointing, Mr De Roover. Only Italy and Greece are doing worse than Belgium. Was that the project of this majority? To be in the list of Italy and Greece? Was that supposed to be the ambition? Mr De Roover, I note that the strength of change is becoming more than ever, in black and white, the strength of decline. You promised jobs. You've promised us purchasing power. You promised a budget in order. You fail on all fronts. So, Prime Minister, my only question is when will you take your head out of the sand? The numbers show in black and white that it's time for something else. I am counting on you as Prime Minister today to say that you have understood that message.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u7	Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the European Commission's report is devastating for our country and is in fact a disgrace to your government. Once again, this government, which would finally put things in order without the Socialists and which would ensure that the budget would be in balance, so that we could have a proper budget, fails across the board. After the Court of Auditors has told you, after the monitoring committee has told you, after of course the opposition has told you, but you are not listening to it now, the European Commission is also saying it. Prime Minister, you are failing. This government is not achieving its objectives. Growth is below the European average. In terms of inflation, we are number one in Europe. Not we say it, but it is literally stated in the report that this is because of your actions, because of the measures taken by this government. You are constantly impoverishing the Belgian population. You must do your homework again now, Prime Minister. Our first question is who you're going to meet again. Again the people who work? Again the common people? Re-retirement? Again with the sick? Will you once again let the fraudsters and the big capitals pass? Where will you get 1.5 billion? People are tired of it. Your invoices, the index jump, people are tired of it. It is therefore not surprising that there will be a number of reactions in the coming months and that there will be demonstrations against your government. Your government is impoverishing the Belgians. Prime Minister, how do you respond to this report? What are your answers to this? Where will you find that 1.5 billion? Will you hold a budget conclave again? We are talking about 1.5 billion, but in the future it will be three billion. How will you realize that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u8	Colleagues, may I ask you not to have conversations here but in the hallway. The noise level that comes from the banks is quite impressive and shows no respect for the questioners and for those who have to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the European Commission announced its spring prospects, in which it gave its views on the economic situation in Belgium and Europe. For Belgium, this is a report with good points and less good points. On the positive side, the European Commission confirms that in Belgium, last year and also in the coming years, public expenditure is falling and taxes are falling. Those aren't Indian stories, colleagues. This is confirmed by the European Commission. A second point confirmed by the European Commission is that the unemployment rate in Belgium will fall from 8.5 to 7.7 %, partly thanks to private job creation. Private job creation are jobs, its people whose purchasing power will increase, its people who will no longer receive benefits, no more taxpayers' money will cost but will raise taxpayers' money. This too is a very good figure. Despite these good measures, the budget remains a challenge. In order to balance the budget by 2018, very tough measures will still be needed. The European Commission is one of the causes of the disappointing economic growth, which has been corrected negatively following the dramatic attacks on 22 March. These attacks have taken a very heavy human toll on all of us, and that is where the economic damage comes in addition. We can respond to this in two ways, ladies and gentlemen. We can choose to support positive initiatives. People call under the name Dining for Brussels to put a heart in the hospitality industry, to help us all get back on top of it together. Or one can react in another way, with a new general political strike, supported by the trade unions and the political opposition in this Parliament, which pushes the economy even deeper. A director of the National Bank, representing the syndical wing, even suggested: leave Zaventem to the left, all to Schiphol. Ladies and gentlemen, that is irresponsibility at the top. It's the branch we're all sitting on. This is self-destruction. Mr Prime Minister, that is why I am asking you. Firstly, how do you read that report from the European Commission? Secondly, what will you do to investigate positive initiatives to help us all get back on top? What will you do to avoid destructive initiatives such as that strike?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u10	Mr Prime Minister, spring is in the country, and that is clearly evident outside. However, the spring outlook of the country gives a more cloudy picture. It contains good news: the tax burden is falling, the public debt is falling, unemployment is falling, the purchasing power of the people, Mrs Temmerman, is maintaining and will increase over the next few years. However, the report is also a reality check, Prime Minister. There are mitigating circumstances. The terrorist attacks aren't doing our country any good. They weigh on the economy and make holes in our image. However, let us be honest, Prime Minister: as far as the budget is concerned, we are not yet where we need to be. There are still a lot of efforts to be made by the government to achieve a balance. My group also insists on this. Ladies and gentlemen, we see that some of us now want the reins to be celebrated. Today an economist in the newspaper called to be less ambitious. Others even say that we need to go out on the streets now in order to bring the country back down and damage the economy. That is, of course, shameful and harmful. Stopping at a time when our economy is fragile is just the opposite of what we need. Prime Minister, I only have two questions for you. How do you respond to the announced strike? What do you think of the report and what will your government do about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u11	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission has drawn up its spring forecasts. It is often forgotten to add that these are indicative clarifications and that the political evaluation will come. She'll probably be much more nuanced than you can say, Mr. Calvo. And it will certainly be much more nuanced, as we can read in the press. Journalists have an interesting analysis. The Commission notes a whole series of positive elements, including the structural measures taken by the government, which, it is true, do not yet fully deliver the desired results. However, the Commission announces that this will already happen in 2017. There is an announcement of an increase in activity, an improvement in the competitiveness of enterprises, a reduction in unemployment and an increase in job creation, which are the main objectives of this government. A recovery in growth will go hand in hand with these job increases and this decrease in unemployment. It also notes that our deficit is below 3%. It is important to know that this objective is still being achieved. Finally, she also points out, what my colleagues have not done, that 2016 is a dramaticly difficult, exceptional year and that the context, not only in Belgium but also in the euro growth area, is difficult. The work is not done. As the Minister of Budget said in a press release, we know that efforts are still needed. Prime Minister, in the Commission's analysis, as in the analysis of other bodies that have been able to give advice, we find that some data, some forecasts, some government calculations are not taken into account. Could you tell us what you think of these assessments, of the fact that some of the revenue forecasts we have estimated are being ignored? As far as asylum and security expenditure are concerned, how will the Commission apprehend or apprehend them in the future? What schedule are we going to be submitted to?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u12	Prime Minister, yesterday the European Commission presented its spring forecast for this year, following the adjusted budget of our country at the end of April. Contrary to what the opposition's fellow Members are trying to believe, the European Commission does see a number of positive points and positive developments for our country. Firstly, there is an increase in employment. My colleagues from the opposition, the figures show it, the employment rate is rising. Next year the unemployment rate is expected to fall further to 7.7 %. And yes, this increase in employment is in the private sector, not in the public sector. That was also the purpose of this government. Secondly, competitiveness is increasing. That's good for the companies and gives them oxygen. The fiscal reform and the reduction in the burden may be a factor in this. It's good that this effect is there. However, the European Commission quite rightly also gives a number of negative points about the budget. She calls on this government to pay serious attention to a number of issues relating to our public finances. Firstly, our economic growth is stagnating at 1.2 % this year and our budget deficit is rising to 2.8 %. The structural balance only improves by 0.25 %, not by the 0.6% that we ourselves had proposed and also announced to the European Commission. So these are serious workpoints. If we want to achieve budgetary balance in 2018, we will all have to make serious efforts, I stress. We therefore expect balanced contributions from everyone to these efforts. Prime Minister, what impact do you have on the spring forecast of the European Commission? What measures will you take with your government to meet the European Commission's concerns?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the various speeches. In my view, the Commission, like the government, is fulfilling its role. What's the situation? Contrary to what some have tried to suggest in the questions, this is the updating of economic forecasts. This is not yet a very important document, which we will receive in a few weeks, perhaps at the end of the month, namely a country-specific report. This report will reinforce a number of comments and assessments on the exact situation we are in. First element to relativize various words. Secondly, the figure of 0.25 % comes from the Commission. I would like to make a very important point in this regard. Before the budgetary exercise a few weeks ago, we called for this, and that is no surprise, because we had clearly said this for a form of neutralization of part of our expenditure on asylum and security. We have had a positive and constructive dialogue with the Commission on this. We had already received a positive message about asylum. Today we have received a letter from the Commission, from Mr Pierre Moscovici, confirming our reasoning that, in principle, exceptional and non-recurrent expenditure on security can be de facto neutralized. To be very clear, this means that the 0.25 %, plus the 0.3% in terms of expenditure on asylum and security, were recognised in a letter from the Commission as proof that the effort had been made. That is exactly what we said at the time of budgetary control. I would also like to point out that we have committed ourselves to reaching 0.6% for entity I, while the European Commission recommends this rate for the whole country. I want to stress, as some have already done, that we are, of course, below the 3% threshold. I want to acknowledge that we are faced with a potentially delicate issue, namely our fault. In the next few weeks and months, and certainly in June and July in the context of the next budgetary exercise, we will pay particular attention to this important issue. Then I would like to make a few comments somewhat relative. I also note that we had the same discussion in 2015, following a few reports from the European Commission. As an example, I give you the discussion we had about the 2015 deficit, in which the government said it was 2.6% according to its calculations. The Commission had first said that it was 2.9%. The Institute of National Accounts gave us reason and said it was 2.6%. Today, the Commission takes our figures as the starting figures for 2015, and not the 2.9%. This shows that there is a dialogue that allows us to make our arguments. Finally, I want to conclude politically on some important points highlighted. This government is at work. We assume our responsibilities and we are on the right path. The number of bankruptcies has never been so low in ten years. That's the reality. Tens of thousands of jobs are being created. It is not I who say it, it is the European Commission and the Plan Bureau that say it. Thirdly, I mean that the Belgians would be impoverished; on average, we are increasing the low and average wages by EUR 100. Those are the figures, that's the reality! The government is working hard on courageous, necessary, crucial reforms for the future, for prosperity, for solidarity. We, solidarity, are not content to proclaim it! We are working through reforms week after week to be able to finance quality health care, to be able to finance our pensions over the long term! That's the work done! I call on everyone to be responsible: the social partners, the economic leaders, the trade unions, the government, the majority and the people why not also the opposition. That may not be impossible. I call on everyone to be responsible. We are facing a difficult time, terror and the impact of the attacks. Within a few days, very strong measures were taken to support the economic sectors in difficulty. We are very determined to act. See you, in any event, in June or July for the next fiscal years. Until then, we will be keeping the course of investment and reforms in favour of employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u14	Prime Minister, when will you understand that you don't run a country like you run a small shop? The population suffers from your mismanagement. If you fail to hear us in this Parliament, will you finally hear the workers who have been expressing their ras-le-bol for the past two years? Don't you hear civil society? Do you not see that all the austerity you have inflicted on our fellow citizens is unbearable?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u15	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u16	There was the index jump, a 2.5 billion puncture on wages, your taxes on consumption that far exceeds the billion... [[Brouhahaha]] I know that my words bother you, but you won't stop me from speaking and you won't stop me from telling you the realities you don't want to see. There are also the repeated gifts you give to the big boss, without the slightest requirement of job creation, the weakening of social protections and the violation of social rights. And today, you're questioning the 38-hour week. All this for disastrous economic and fiscal results. That's your record. People can't take it anymore!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u17	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u18	Prime Minister, you will not prevent me from continuing. Ladies and gentlemen, put yourself in the place of our fellow citizens for a moment when they intend to make a speech so far away from their difficult endings. As you continue along this path, history will remember from you, Mr Michel, that you will have been the prime minister of austerity and poverty.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u19	Mr President, I understand the problem. The Prime Minister has only been brave enough to come here half an hour ago. He just read last time's answer. Eurostat says that Belgium is one of the two countries where the rate of activity is falling. Nothing changes for the Prime Minister. The Prize Observatory says that the lives of the population are becoming more expensive. Nothing changes for the Prime Minister. The European Commission says that the budget is not in order. The Prime Minister says just keep going. Our country deserves a captain who dares to face at least the truth, a prime minister who says something in which people want and can believe. What strikes me is that a number of people from the majority say that it is now a bit disappointing because of the attacks. Ladies and gentlemen, I find that degout. What happened in Maalbeek and Zaventem is terrible. Don't use those attacks to cover your own failure! The fact that the figures are disappointing has to do with the government's recipe, and with the fact that this recipe doesn't work. It is time, ladies and gentlemen, to correct that. You're complaining about people coming out on the street. They're right to do that. The anger is everywhere. The call for justice will not stop soon, especially if the Prime Minister continues to use the truth, including in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u20	Prime Minister, I am used to the fact that you do not listen to the opposition's questions, but you should listen to the questions of the majority. I have heard several members of the majority, including CD&V, say that everyone will have to contribute. Then we hear the N-VA, who, through Mr Dedecker on another forum, says that perhaps we should think about everyone's contribution. Yesterday, however, Open Vld said: no, not everyone should contribute, we are opposed to a capital gain tax. In short, the great abilities will not contribute. Prime Minister, my question was clear. How will you get 1.5 billion? You didn't answer that. Your majority, though divided, is clear: it will be the ordinary people again. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you have come here to say that it is a disgrace to enter the streets. But, of course, people are coming to the streets, they don't think it's fair anymore! People want to contribute, people understand that there is an economic crisis and that our country is in difficulties, but people no longer want to be punished alone. People want the government finally to demand a fair contribution from the fraudsters and from the great powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u21	Thank you for your reply, Prime Minister. Mr Calvo, I would like to call on you to refrain from populism, to take your blinders and to face the truth. Read the European Commission's report. Start by reading the European Commission's report and quoting the figures on unemployment correctly. Maybe you should take a walk, too. Come out, Mr. Calvo. Take a walk in Brussels and see how the economy and tourism are on the ground. Not only in Brussels, but also in other cities, our catering industry is having a particularly difficult time. You can't pretend there's no impact, Mr Calvo. Don't deny those things. Just be honest for once. Colleagues, as regards the preparation of the 2017 budget and the road to balance in 2018, I would like to return to the words of the Governor of the National Bank, Jan Smets. When presenting the annual report here in Parliament, he said: 'Don't take the easy way out of taxation, as proposed here today by Mrs Temmerman, but continue along the road of clean-up, reform and modernisation.' That's the only way forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u22	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. You have shown yourself to be a combatant and you have acknowledged that a number of cliffs still have to be taken. That's obvious. I would like to use my reply to say something to the opposition as well. Mrs Temmerman and others have come here time and time again to tell us that big business will pay the bill. So the solution lies with big business. "Do the rich pay the crisis," is not only a bad copy of the original of the Communist PVDA, but also a recipe that does not work. Why not? In the previous government, Mr Di Rupo tried to do so. What was the result? The middle class has paid, with the car trunks and the houses. In France, the president tried to introduce a rich tax. It's been removed because of no results. Soon Mr Zuhal will perhaps try the same thing, with her capital gains tax, and that will again give no result. The only thing that works is the path of reform. That is the way we advocate. That is the path, Prime Minister, which the government must continue to follow. Keep reforming, that's what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u23	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. Mr Calvo, I am also sometimes shocked by what I hear! We do not use the argument; we simply find that structural measures take a little longer to implement given the context. I think if you, as much as you are, were in the government with us, you would be taking the same action because they are essential. When you were with us in the past, you were taking the same steps because it was necessary! We, day after day, step by step, take the measures necessary for the well-being of our country. If you had a sense of responsibility, you would support what we do!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u24	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. We continue to support you on your further path towards further reforms. The European Commission effectively confirms that there is no negative impact on citizens' purchasing power. That is what the European Commission's report says. There is no negative impact on citizens' purchasing power. A reduction in the unemployment rate is also foreseen by 2017. However, there are also concerns in the budget, which we have been calling for longer than today. We also need to use debt relief. A budget in order must also be used. So, ladies and gentlemen, we expect everyone to make efforts in the coming months and years to get the budget in order. After all, we do not want to shift debts to the next generation. CD&V absolutely doesn't want that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u25	Mr President, Prime Minister, following repeated threats by Turkey to blow up immigration deals, the European Commission has today given the green light to abolishing the visa requirement for Turkey. At a time when European journalists are still stuck in Turkey, the European Union decides that within less than two months, almost 80 million Turks will be able to travel unhindered and remain unhindered in the European Union. Unfortunately, Erdogan's old political wish is becoming a reality. A new Turkish wave of immigration will, unfortunately, become a reality. After all, we have seen in the past that the release of visas from certain Balkan countries has caused an asylum crisis here. They did not agree with so many millions, nor were there so many millions of Kurds with such legitimate reasons for fleeing their country. Mr Prime Minister, Mr Juncker and Mr Tusk have always said that the 72 conditions had to be met before the visa waiver could be given the green light. Apparently, it doesn't have to be anymore. It is now up to the European Member States and the European Parliament. Prime Minister, I have three specific questions for you. Will this government approve the insane proposal of the European Commission? At the time, I asked you to use your right of veto in that shameless Turkey deal. Will you do that now, now that the European Union is giving Turkey all its consent, without fulfilling all the conditions? Some Member States are aware that they have committed a stupidity by agreeing to the visa waiver during that Turkey deal, and they have launched the idea of an emergency braking procedure. Is that an idea for discussion? Do you support that? Or do you agree with me that it's too little, too late? Finally, the European Commission must have made an impact study for such a decision. Did you get that? You keep saying you don't want to give a blank cheque. This government cannot agree without seeing the impact study. Can we know what's in that study?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u26	Mr President, Mrs Pas, I have already said it a few times and I repeat that I assure Parliament that we will not be naive or deaf in the context of the discussions with Turkey. We will also defend European interests. What do I see in the framework of the agreements between Turkey and the EU? There is certainly a first positive point. I note a reduction in the number of refugees coming to Europe. The first priority was to break the smuggling business model. That is a positive point, but it is not enough. We also believe that we need to take more structural, European measures in order to have more consultation at European level on the issue of migration. I now turn to the specific questions on visa liberalisation. We have always been clear and the texts of the agreements between the EU and Turkey are also clear. There is no political decision on visa liberalisation. There's a 72-criteria roadmap. Less than an hour ago, we received a report from the European Commission on this matter. We'll take the time to look into it. What's in that report? Contrary to what you have said, it says that Turkey meets 65 criteria. There would still be two criteria with technical difficulties and five criteria with more serious difficulties. For us, it is clear that Turkey must meet all the criteria in order to have a chance of visa liberalisation. That is a first point. However, that is not enough for us. During the discussions in the European Council, I also drew attention to the possibility of a suspension or braking procedure in order to ensure that Turkey does not cause us any difficulties. Finally, for the sake of completeness, it is a co-decision procedure. There is no decision of the European Commission today, but only a first report containing the elements I have explained. This means very concretely that the Dutch Presidency will be given a mandate to look at developments in the European Parliament and in the European Council in the next few days and weeks. There too we have a role and a right to vote, so we have the opportunity to influence the matter. We're following the situation. We are not naive and will do everything we can to defend our own interests properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u27	Prime Minister, this is not the first time I have asked about the content of the impact study. I am not reassured that you never answer that question. Either it wasn't made, or you didn't see the study, or you don't want to release the results. In all three cases this is problematic. Visa-free travel for almost 80 million Turks will be a disaster for the European Union. You must resist this Turkish blackmail, a bartering of principles to maintain a bad refugee agreement at all costs. You must do everything you can to delay and stop the European Commission's proposal to abolish the visa requirement. You do not say that you are going to use a veto, you repeat what you have said in the past. Despite the fact that your fellow Members have already said in the European Union that they would not give the green light without the 72 criteria being met, you are going to do the same. We will have this discussion here, because the Member States must also approve it. You know our attitude, we will fight this from all sides.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u28	Mr President, I would initially like to ask the Prime Minister about Belgium's external image of non-responses on the nuclear issue. But I was sent back to your powers, Mr. Minister of the Interior. Yet my question is very simple. What response will you provide or have you provided to Germany in relation to its simple request to organise real risk tests at the cracked Doel 3 and Tihange 2 plants? I guess I don't have to remind you that Tihange has 3,000 cracks and Doel 13,000. Usually, you can say this is about the Federal Nuclear Control Agency, not you or the government. I assume you read the audit and your government commissioners sent it to you. Today, I have the impression that you can no longer hide behind the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. You have to hear what other countries say, not only Germany, but also Luxembourg, the Netherlands, cities like Maastricht, Aachen, Mönchengladbach, regions, the Länder, North Rhine-Westphalia. That's not all. From a scientific point of view, you have probably read other opinions. In any case, I hope that you do not limit yourself to reading what this agency under economic and political influence – it is the audit that says – transmits to you. You can lift your shoulders, minister, but look at the other scientific experts. What do you think of Helmut Schultz's minority score? What do you think of the arguments of Ilse Tweer, the Austrian expert? There are also Belgians. You probably read Professor Bogaerts or Antoine Debauche, a former IRE official. Colleagues, even the MR of Liège is calling for the closure of the Tihange 2 and Doel 3 power plants! The Prime Minister's father, Louis Michel, also says that these cracks have something to make us panic. Mr. Minister of the Interior, don't you think it's starting to make a lot of people? On the other side of the scale, there's just this famous Federal Nuclear Control Agency. In one sentence, nuclear power, either that's 100% certainty, or that's closure!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u29	Mr President, Mr Nollet, I have not heard any questions from you. That's too bad. I can imagine what your question is. The answer to the Germans is very simple. We invited them to come and visit. They came on April 5 and 6, and they asked a lot of questions. We answered almost all of their questions. There are still a few questions that require further investigation. A schedule has been established with them to provide these responses. We work together with the competent German agency, and we will continue. I made an offer to the Germans: give us this vision of cross-inspection. They don't want to. I can only offer it. We will answer all the questions they have asked. They were already included in the investigations of the AFCN and other international experts. On the basis of all the answers to these questions, AFCN concluded that there was no safety issue with the Doel or Tihange power plants. So, we're pursuing our policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u30	Mr. Minister of the Interior, "we're pursuing our policy," that's fast being said. Yes, certainly: you will continue to give priority to the financial interest over security. Certainly. In the meantime, when the Germans come to ask you questions, you answer them, but that is not enough. What is asked today, on the basis of the answers you provide, are real-world tests, not calculations. On this issue, you have no response and no commitment. It makes sense that not only Germany but also other neighbouring countries, as well as citizens, are concerned. Indeed, you are taking refuge behind the Federal Nuclear Control Agency, which no longer has the legitimacy to take these positions. It won't last long, and you know it very well, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u31	Minister, the head of State Security rarely speaks, but when he does it, it is consistent. He spoke recently in Antwerp in front of the students of a security institute to provide some very serious information. First of all, he spoke of the increased risk of the threat from the far right. He obviously spoke of the priority given to the fight against Daesh, but he also questioned the figures you had transmitted not only to the press but also to Parliament. He said that, in reality, the number of foreign terror fighters has been constant since 2011, that there has been no decrease in their number, contrary to your statements of 2 December last when I asked you about this. He therefore called into question the information you gave to Parliament. But more fundamentally, in doing so, he questions the effectiveness of your strategy, Minister of the Interior. Indeed, it seems to say that the strategy put in place by the government, in particular those famous local task forces, which have necessarily been questioned by some, do not work, since the figures are stable. Given the constant number of departures, I would also like to hear from you about the number of returns, because it is at this level that the main threat to our country lies. Is the number of returns also constant? Is there an effective strategy to better control these returns, to have a systematic screening of these returns? The CDH has, for months, submitted a proposal on how to screen these returns. Your government made proposals last December. We have seen nothing coming either at the level of parliament or at the level of government. What about an effective strategy? What about the exact figures on terrorism and foreign terror fighters?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u32	Mr Dallemagne, I am not in a position to respond to Mr Raes' remarks. I therefore advise you to question the minister responsible for this matter, Mr Geens. My figures are based on information received from OCAM. OCAM figures are based on information from the seven support services, including the State Security and the Federal Police. OCAM again confirmed this morning that, for 2012, 2013, 2014, their services accounted for an average of 12 departures. In 2015, this average was reduced to a maximum of 6 departures per month. These are the figures provided by the OCAM and on which I rely.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u33	Mr. Minister, if I understand you correctly, the chief intelligence officer is saying anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u34	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u35	Yes, and his words are addressed to you. I quote: "I know Minister Jambon has said in the media that the trend is in decline, but I must disappoint him." This is still the case with the head of the intelligence services. It is therefore necessary to make clear who is wrong and who is right in this case and to know the real figures. Today, you gave me other figures. Nevertheless, the figures of the State Security – figures that are worrying – are completely different from those you mentioned. Moreover, according to the declaration of the State Security, the far right represents a new threat. We know how much this movement can feed on amalgams and generalizing words. I ask you to be careful, in the future, not to make this kind of statement about the Muslim community. Indeed, we know the danger that such statements may have for a fringe of the population that could adhere to the ideas of the far right, and in so doing represent a new threat.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u36	Mr President, Minister, the National Security Plan 2016-2021 sets the priorities for the next five years. These are priorities in terms of the use of police and resources, both for local and federal police. It was noteworthy that this week a particular newspaper published that there would be a special passage in the plan, which stipulates that both local and federal police would be alerted. It was the first time that the plan included the object of the plan. Whatever the priorities, you want to test them against the existing manpower and the available financial resources. That there is a shortage of policemen, we know. You and the government partners have solved that deficit well. There will be 1 200 extra agents and there will be 400 agents in training. However, we know that 1 400 recruitments will be needed to cope with the ageing of the police and the retirement wave. For the long term, therefore, that number of 1 200 agents should be reviewed. Apart from the capacity shortage, it appears that there is a shortage of sound infrastructure. Here and there they also complain about problems with the material, problems that continue to drag on. That is why I have a few specific questions. What will you do, in addition to the planned recruitments that went well, to further motivate and support police people, both in terms of infrastructure and material? Are the budgetary interventions necessary for the recruitment of additional police officers included in the multiannual plan? Can we continue to do so for a long time or do we still have to make some changes? Can you tell us when the National Security Plan 2016-2021 is about to land?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u37	Mr Demon, it is never easy to quote from a report that does not yet exist. Although it is in preparation and Mr Geens and I will propose the National Security Plan of the police together with the Integrated Security Framework Paper, as promised, by the end of June 2016. Then you can rely on the real report and not rumors in the press. However, the capacity demand of the police and the motivational question of the police is a question for which we do not need the National Security Plan to bring them to justice. As far as capacity is concerned, you know that we have the key tasks of the debate. It will increase the capacity of the police by 2 500 units, including 450 people for the local police, about 500 people for the federal police and a special protection force consisting of about 1 600 people. In the core task debate there are also motivating elements, because tasks for which policemen are overtrained play postman and deliver letters with the question that to sign were perhaps in place in the 19th and 20th centuries, but in the 21st century certainly no longer take away from the task package, so that policemen are used for police tasks. I think this is a motivating factor. You are also right to say that there is a natural discharge in the police force, which must be taken care of by recruitment. Well, it is the government's intention and ambition to increase the total capacity of federal police net by 1 200 units. This means that we will recruit 1 600 people this year, 1 400 next year and 1 400 next year. Those recruitments are planned in the multiannual budget. The same applies to the equipment. It is true that some equipment needs to be improved. It is provided for in the interdepartmental commission, in the non-structural part. A serious catch-up will take place in 2016. Finally, the Police Buildings Master Plan is also an element. Some police buildings, such as in Liège, are almost unworthy of policemen to work in them. That master plan is also in preparation and in progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u38	Minister, I think you should bear in mind that, due to the ageing population, 1 400 policemen retire. That number will have to be looked at closely in relation to the 1 200 policemen who come net. I know that the security plan now focuses a great deal on terrorism, which must be done, but we must also continue to focus on ordinary tasks, such as burglaries and drugs. That is why I call for the police to be properly motivated and for newcomers to be attracted to become candidates, so that there is an extra influx. I look forward to the National Security Plan that you are drawing up together with your colleague, Mr Geens, and to the priorities that will be put forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u39	Mr President, Minister, it is almost boring and trivial to see a new strike in prisons. The problem is that the same questions are asked and we never get an answer. We come back each time to ask you how the situation is changing. You know that the strike was caused by the decision to reduce staff. Today we see the consequences of the policy intended by this government. Detainees live in conditions unworthy of a rule of law. The courts must intervene to correct the shortcomings and recall that minimum conditions are necessary for a decent life in prison. Police officers are called to perform a mission that is not theirs and for which they are not trained, to the detriment of their basic function. The mayors concerned by a prison on their territory are tired, Minister, of having to remedy each time the deficiencies or the lack of care of the federal government, because these are, in this case, federal matters. Minister, I will ask you four specific questions, and I hope to get four answers that are equally so. How do you respond to staff demands? I understand that a new memorandum of understanding is being finalized. Maybe you'll tell us a little more. What are you doing in the union concertation with a view to finally setting up a minimum service? I would remind you that we have a written proposal on this subject, which you can draw on. Are you going to extend to all prisons in the Kingdom the rules of application to guarantee a minimum of decency in the event of strikes in prisons, since this is not limited to the decision of the Nivelles court? Finally, Minister, I come to an important question that you may not have yet been confronted with, but which is likely to be necessary for you in the future: are you going to compensate the local police areas that bear enormous and unforeseen costs when they have to intervene in lieu of the federal police or those who could replace the guards on strike? I expect specific answers to these four questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u40	Mr President, Minister, I fully agree with what my colleague Mr Brotcorn has just said. Prison officers have been on strike for several days. The unsustainable conditions imposed on them, including the downsizing, also affect the living conditions of detainees. More meadows, more regular meals, more phone calls, more showers. So you can imagine the situation. This is the general situation in prisons. In some cases, in Forest in particular, it is even more serious, given the state of the infrastructure and in any case its age. The mayor of Forest, with whom I have been in contact recently, has made direct contact with the Prime Minister to point out that this prison is currently almost unsanitary. Tomorrow, he could very well take a closure order and I can assure you that it would be very serious. So we are on the brink of a dramatic situation. Minister, what will your government do to stop these austerity measures? Sometimes I feel that we don't necessarily look at the human side of things. I have often asked you questions in committee. I came in with social, human situations. You always answer me with a rationalization plan, budget savings, a Masterplan, etc. I feel like we don't always speak the same language. It is time to invest in our prisons, or we will as usual wait, to act, for a condemnation of the European Court of Human Rights. I told you about Forest Prison. I will also tell you about the prison in Tournai, where only a few agents were hired. The others were transferred. I guarantee you that they are submerged and this may not improve with the end of the Tilburg prison contract and with your pot rot which, in my opinion, will degrade the situation. This lack of resources has a wide range of consequences for prison officers, for prisoners, but also for local authorities and the various mayors. We, as mayors, have had enough of putting police at our disposal. I'll give you a small example: 25 policemen in Tournai, that's more or less 10 per cent of the workforce. Meanwhile, the work is no longer done. Minister, it is time for you to tackle the root causes of the problem. What is the status of the negotiations? What means do you intend to deploy to deal with this crisis situation before it explodes? When can we hope for the end of your blind austerity policy? On the issue of Forest Prison, are you going to find ways?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u41	Minister, you're getting out of negotiations with the unions. According to the echoes I have, it is not really the satisfaction of the union side! I do not know if you are aware that this strike is historic because it has been years since there was no more strike in all the prisons in Wallonia and Brussels, not to mention the discontent which also exists in Flanders. From the feedback I have, I can assure you that the anger of prison officers is very great, as is their determination. I would point out that they have been on strike for nine days now! They're angry because we're questioning everything. They are unhappy about all the issues: the number of employees, the premiums, the pensions, the illnesses, the holidays they cannot take. And you, you continue your plans blindly. Finally, your policy makes three categories of victims: prison officers, prisoners and police officers. What the guards are telling us is that their claims also correspond to the well-being of the inmates. For example, when you force staff to work from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., it is a financial problem for workers, but it also causes problems for inmates; in fact, in the evening, visits and activities are less. The guards tell us they are fighting for their rights (salary, pension) but also for the dignity of the detainees. A newspaper summarized this in one sentence: "overcrowded prisoners supervised by understaffed guards". The situation is such, and I say to you politely, minister, that I think you are making fun of people. You make fun of people when in plenary, here last week, you said you had great respect for prison officers. That is not the impression these agents have at all, minister, I can assure you. Do you confirm that there are at least 500 missing agents compared to the 2014 framework? Are you aware that your plan is socially intolerable, but also in terms of security? How many days will it take you to understand? What is the state of the negotiations? In my opinion, it's not extraordinary. Finally, what do you think of this proposal made by a striker we met: "That the minister come to work a day in prison and he will see what it is"?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to your question on the conduct of negotiations, a minister who negotiates with the trade unions must be sparing in his statements. So let me be brief in my remarks but still sufficiently clear. I have proposed to freeze, for this year, the current situation, i.e. to replace the departures of our prisons by one by one. It is not a question of freezing the current situation but of building a better future, thanks to the change in working methods that I agreed to negotiate with the unions in a protocol signed by them in December 2014. I am convinced that, at all costs, we must move towards a change in working methods. I believe that most trade unions agree on this point. Increasing the workforce will never solve problems, but there is a need to explain. An hour-to-hour flexibility premium is granted in the prisons that started the exercise agreed upon in the negotiations. Many have started this rationalization exercise on the Dutch-speaking, Brussels-speaking or French-speaking side. Mr. Van Hees, you talked about pensions. This is not really on the negotiating table at the moment. Pre-pension leave is gradually set at the age of 58 for 2018. We know enough. This was confirmed during the recent budgetary control and negotiations on penitibility at the level of the National Pension Commission are under way. They're going well. Again this morning, Minister Baquelaine saw the unions on this subject. I understand the problems and despite your comments, Mr. Van Hees, I have great respect for the prison officers. There is a certain problem of absenteeism in our prisons, in some of our public services that make managers less than they should be. It's kind of a vicious circle that I'm trying to break by these other working methods. As far as the minimum service is concerned, a social mediation has been under way for eight months and I keep repeating to the people around the table that we are pursuing it. On Monday, we will see together the social mediator on this subject. Indeed, both the majority and the opposition are aware of the need for this regime. On the other hand, I am fortunate to know the human rights convention and also the condemnation my department suffered in Nivelles. I will, of course, enforce and enforce these decisions to the extent that I am required to do so. It is clear, however, that such a large daily sum imposed by a lack of knowledge of human rights is a very heavy matter. I'm doing everything I can to stop this strike as soon as possible. It should not be underestimated that this strike, in the South and in Brussels, is the result of the initiative of the prison officers, not the trade unions. It's not so easy to manage, but we're really doing our best. Mr President, I will mention two more small problems which concern the local police areas. You know that they are being requisitioned by my department, and that several mayors with whom my cabinet is in permanent contact, as well as with the governors, have, for their part, requisitioned the federal police. I believe that everyone has his or her legal duties in this regard. But it goes without saying that everyone is seeking a minimum service. There is only one question that I can answer given the limits of time. I had another meeting this morning concerning Forest with the Minister of the Interior, who is also the Minister of the Régie, as you are aware. For Haren, we push as much as we can, and we think we can finish by the beginning of 2019. In the meantime, repairs that are possible in Forest must be carried out. Wing D, as you know, has been closed in the meantime. We continue and do our best. I hope this strike will be over before Friday, but, ladies and gentlemen, it takes two to dance!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u43	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, I recognize you here. You have answered almost all the questions by adopting the attitude that characterizes you, which is to say that we are discussing, negotiating, hoping for, and going to do so. As far as I'm concerned, I'm holding only one thing. I am not thinking in any way of what you have said under the guise of some confidentiality with regard to the agreements envisaged with the negotiators. Indeed, what you referred to was already contained in a previous agreement that did not seem to please strikers. You talked about one for one, about freezing, about the flexibility premium, about the problem of pensions. All these aspects are reflected in the previous memorandum of understanding, which has not been implemented. What I finally remember is what happens outside the government, not in parliament, but in the courthouses – it may even force you to move. You were somewhat surprised by the importance of the conviction. In doing so, you have indicated that solutions will have to be found quickly, otherwise it may weigh heavily on the budget. Is that where the solution will come from? It would be a shame if the latter did not come out of politics, and once again it was the courts that had to make decisions in this chamber or by the government, given our respective inconveniences.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u44	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, I am not satisfied with your answers. You said you were going to be sparing in your remarks. This happens so often that the unions have not heard anything yet! You said an increase in staff would not solve the problem. I leave you responsible for your remarks. In any case, I can assure you that a reduction in staff will not solve it either, but rather will make it worse. You talked about minimum service. I'm sorry to have to tell you that you're taking the problem backwards. I ask you to resolve the problems related to the strike, not those downstream. You also referred to the requisition of the federal police. I can assure you that in Tournai, you have to deal with the problem with the zonal fonts. As far as Forest is concerned, you have not answered my question about means. As the time is right now, let me let you know that at 2:58 p.m. I received a call for help from the prison in Tournai. Indeed, the inmates of wing C will not have food, the police no longer have the capacity to intervene, given the danger. And an hour ago, we intercepted an inmate who was removing the sheath from the vent. In other words, an escape attempt has been thwarted. I don't know if you realize the state we're in. There is fire in the prisons and soon there will also be fire in the police stations because the police are more than tired of doing a job that is not theirs. Today, when I'm asked what the police are doing, I answer that the latter solves the federal problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u45	Minister, your blindness is impressive! It is impressive to hear you say, and I hope the prison guards won't hear you, that increasing the staff won't solve the problems! What is the reality? We opened three prisons and the number of agents did not increase, it decreased! In 2014, the framework was 7,241, and it was already below the actual reality of prisons. In 2016, the framework was 6,785! This means 456 less agents, regardless of the fact that the framework was below reality. When I hear you say that increasing staff will not solve problems, there is little chance that the strike will end today, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, given your blindness to the reality in prisons!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u46	Exceptionally, I pass the floor to the minister for a factual element.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u47	Replacement one by one means a commitment of 350 people this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u48	Mr. Chair, Minister, crime is evolving significantly and continuously. Criminal and terrorist organizations do not hesitate to use new technologies to achieve their ends. Not a week, not a day goes by without mentioning this phenomenon sometimes in terms of the use, by terrorist organisations, of social networks, encrypted smartphones or various applications for propaganda and communication purposes, sometimes on the difficulties of collaboration between the justice system and those companies which do not always have their headquarters in Belgium or Europe. I will refer to various examples, including the confirmation by the Court of Cassation of Yahoo's recent conviction and the proceedings opened against Skype in the court of Malines. This phenomenon is not unique to Belgium. It is recognized and other cases are reported daily. This digital universe with multiple dimensions leads me to ask you several questions today. Minister, do you think that European and national legislation requires adaptations? If so, which ones? Do you have any statistics on the requests made by the judicial authorities and their follow-up? What steps do you have or are you going to take with web giants to establish effective collaboration to facilitate judicial investigations in Belgium, but also with the US authorities to exchange good practices and, where appropriate, enforce Belgian judgments in the US?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u49	Mr President, Mr Foret, obviously, at the level of foreign providers, Belgium and Europe are facing serious problems, because these means of communication are used as much as our simple telephone and gsm, while the providers are not called Proximus, Base or Mobistar, but are mostly American providers. We have a Belgian solution to the problem: the judgment of the Court of Cassation to which you referred, a modern legislation that will be adapted in the coming months. Indeed, the bill that will shortly come from the Council of State will be tabled on your benches. In any event, foreign providers do not necessarily follow our legislation and request a rogatory commission or a request for additional reasons. It takes a lot of time and costs us a lot in terms of security. Secondly, we must cooperate on a European scale – and we do this – by means of a draft directive, but above all by uniting our negotiating powers. Among the countries that want to cooperate with the Americans, Belgium has a great expertise from the universities of Liège and Leuven. I have worked together with the Luxembourg Presidency and continue to do so with the current Dutch Presidency. Moreover, on the bilateral level, I would point out that, generally speaking, the US government is more quick to help us when they themselves know a problem with the same suspect. Otherwise, we need to increase pressure through contact between liaison magistrates. In a few days, Mr. Jambon and I will meet with the U.S. Deputy Secretary of Security. We will place more emphasis on this cooperation. Finally, please excuse me for not having statistics.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u50	Minister, thank you for your answers. You stressed the need to work with European and non-European countries, such as the United States, which host many providers. I would also like to encourage you not to forget the respect due to the protection of privacy. I have no doubt that you will continue to work in this direction with Deputy Prime Minister Alexander De Croo and our new Secretary of State for Privacy. It is essential to be able to force cooperation if necessary, as you have reminded us, and I thank you for that. I am sure that you will remain vigilant about this essential balance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u51	Mr President, in the wake of last autumn's outbreak of bluetongue in France, there is a fear in our country that the disease will break out and that it will be difficult for us to deal with it. France has bought up the whole stock of vaccines and therefore there are no more vaccines to be obtained. The production has been restarted and the new delivery is now completely out. We are talking about two million vaccines for cattle and a hundred thousand for sheep. Following urgent consultations, a new order was placed for 2.8 million vaccines for cattle and 300 000 for sheep. The delivery is expected by June. However, that is rather late or even too late. The vaccination should ideally be done twice with an interval of three weeks. Meanwhile, the grazing period has begun and that makes vaccination difficult. It was expected that 30% of livestock would be vaccinated preventively. Some vets ordered vaccines for all their customers' cattle. As a result, other veterinary surgeons are short on vaccines. Minister, vaccines will undoubtedly remain in veterinary refrigerators because they do not use them. This also leaves out residual vaccines, which could be used for sheep, at least that is what the question is. Some vets don't play the game very fair either. They put the vaccines on the farm and let the farmer vaccinate, which is not supposed to happen. In this way, too, many remaining vaccines are lost. Such a waste of vaccines at a time when little is available is a pity. Here's what I want to ask you. Is there a check on the purchase and consumption by veterinary surgeons, or is it coming as a result of the new orders? The vaccines are free. Did you know about vets who let vaccines go missing or leave them in their fridge? Do you know of an under-utilization in certain regions of our country? How will we prevent similar situations in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u52	Mr President, Minister, I tabled this question in committee more than a month ago. However, it is a crucial issue, the consequences of which can be severe in terms of economic losses. Three key questions arise. The first relates to initial decision-making. You decided not to make vaccination compulsory. You've decided to order just over 2 million vaccines, when it took at least 5 million. You also made orders far too late. While in the summer of 2015, the experts were formal, saying that it was necessary, as in 2008, to make vaccination compulsory, why didn't you make this choice? Why didn't you listen to the experts? Why didn't you order a sufficient number of vaccines? The second problem is the way in which AFSCA has attributed vaccines. Wholesalers have made requests for veterinarians. Some veterinarians received vaccines, others none, while they had important needs. What criteria have been used for this distribution? Have the number of animals per veterinarian been taken into account? Some veterinarians today have vaccines in their refrigerators, which are useless. Will the AFSCA act to ensure that these vaccines can be used appropriately? Third important problem, Minister, you have just re-launched a new vaccine order, but it will only be delivered on 20 June, I am told. Is this information correct? If so, are you aware that it will be far too late? The disease is likely to spread as early as July. Moreover, it is important, since all the animals are in meadows, the practical organization will be extremely complex, if not completely damaged.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to say to Mrs Fonck that the committee's agenda has been adapted so that she can ask her question at her convenience. There is therefore no reproach to me in this regard. To say that the question was tabled a month ago, as if there had been no follow-up is false! Secondly, when I took note of the situation in France, I immediately asked CODA to investigate the risk of Belgium being affected. I also consulted with the sectors on the strategy to be adopted. In full consultation with the sectors and with the experts, I opted for vaccination on a voluntary basis. In consultation with the industry and the experts I opted for a vaccination on a voluntary basis. A public contract ordered two million doses for cattle and one hundred thousand doses for sheep. As everyone knows, respecting the procedures for consultation and consultation, and then public procurement for a European market, are procedures that take some time. I must inform you, dear lady, that only one company replied: the Spanish company which provides us. Why have we estimated the rate of vaccinated animals to be 20 to 30%? We have done so on the basis of a concerted estimate with agricultural organisations as well as with experts. Rewriting the story after it is always extremely easy. Today, 10% of surplus orders could not be met, as colleagues have noted. We have, as a matter of urgency, on 11 April, activated the additional order procedures, with the final delivery time for 20 June next. I must inform you that, since then, some countries have come to ask us how we did this, because they do not have any vaccination doses. I recall that the blue language, the FCO, declared itself in France last summer. From the moment it became clear that the homes were spreading in France, I made the quickest arrangements. I am aware, of course, that immunizing during the winter is much more timely. It takes three weeks to complete the vaccine recall. The procedure, up to the first order, was the fastest taking into account all the steps. We have made arrangements to ask veterinarians who have over-ordered to also manage the excess doses and to ensure the return of the unused balance in the form of availability. Today, there are 239 cases of blue language (BCF) found in France. It is estimated that the disease could reach our country next summer, as it is now identified 200 km from our borders. The whole process was carried out in consultation with stakeholders. I have chosen not to follow the opinion of the agricultural organisations on one point, namely that vaccination must go through approved veterinarians. That's the information I can share with you today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I hear you've been consulting with the agricultural organizations. However, it is those organizations that call the alarm and are afraid. We must not take any risk that the virus, or any virus, will break out of our hands. Furthermore, the question arises as to who is responsible for the outbreak of such a virus. The farmer asks for vaccination, the veterinarian orders vaccines but gets insufficient and there is no control of the use, or yet insufficient. The effects of the bluetongue virus are not minor. We must strive for adequate and available vaccines. It would be interesting to look at the picture of costs and benefits of mandatory vaccination. The available stock of vaccines should be sufficient to deal immediately and fully with a subsequent surge. Minister, you will agree with me that farmers are already getting enough on their plate and that they can spare as much epidemic as toothache.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u55	Mr Minister, on the way in which committees are organized, it is obviously to the House and, in particular, to the President that we must turn to. I've sat on several commissions myself. To get back to the bottom, you seem to be here, minister, rejecting the responsibility on farmers. According to you, "they only had to..."
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u56	I never said that! [[Tumult]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u57	Mr President, I am trying to speak!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u58	Mrs Fonck has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u59	I never used those terms!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u60	Experts and veterinarians had said that compulsory vaccination was needed. And even if you didn't choose compulsory vaccination, you know very well that to avoid an epidemic, as we did in 2008, you need at least 80% coverage! Covering animals, whether cattle or sheep, 80% requires much more than two million doses. So you chose to order too little and you ordered it too late. My colleague, who has just spoken, agrees with me. On the other hand, the way this has been organised since the beginning is a matter of mismanagement. To rule is to anticipate. In this case, you are taking the risk of having consequences in terms of economic losses for farmers, which are serious consequences. Minister, it will be your responsibility!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u61	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read two quotes. Firstly, only bombing has never contributed and will not do so in Syria. Secondly, if we are asked to participate, we need to know what the bigger plan is. We want to get that picture explained. We shouldn't go to Syria as cowboys. Colleagues, these are quotes from Deputy Prime Minister Peeters and Deputy Prime Minister De Croo. Great was my surprise when yesterday and today I heard from the press that Didier Reynders is well aware that he sees it as big, but apparently he already considers himself Prime Minister and Minister of Defence from Amman and Baghdad to announce that Belgium is going to bomb in Syria and is thinking of boots on the ground in Iraq. Mr Minister, the quotes I have just given were made by the Deputy Prime Ministers after a debate here in this Chamber where, at the request of a majority and opposition, the Prime Minister had committed himself to holding a parliamentary debate on this important decision. Unless I missed something, I didn't see anything in Parliament. The Prime Minister had also said that he would first have a discussion in the government and then come to Parliament. Did I miss a government decision on this? Mr. Secretary of Defense, are Didier Reynders' statements in Amman and Baghdad a government decision? Where is this bigger picture, for which all MPs and also Deputy Prime Minister Peeters and Deputy Prime Minister De Croo are asking parties? After 40 000 bombs in Syria and Iraq, we should know that bombing alone is not the solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u62	Minister, in recent days military action against ISIS has been very topical. This concerns not only the fact that our F-16s will relieve the Dutch at the beginning of July, but also the question of extending our mission in Syria and any additional missions for our ground troops in Iraq. This morning I read in The Importance of Limburg, you have certainly read it, Minister, that the Dutch are not really successful in extending their activities over Syria because they do not have the most modern radio equipment. Don't get us wrong, Minister. We, as Liberals, are very supportive of tackling the horror that IS exhibits in the region, but also here with us. In addition to a military plan, however, there is also a need for a political and humanitarian approach, the so-called 3D approach. A thorough parliamentary debate is also important for us. There has also been such a debate in the Netherlands. We think it is important for the debate to take place before the decision is taken in the government because the new mandate, the enlargement to Syria, is something quite different from the one we have today. We must take into account international law, the pros and counters, possible collateral damage and the danger to our own troops. In that context, I have three questions, Minister. Firstly, what options is the government considering in extending the mandate of our ground troops in Iraq and deploying the F-16 Tunisians in Syria? Secondly, how do you react to the news today in The Belang van Limburg that the Dutch F-16 Will that have an impact on the deployment of our F-16 species? Thirdly, are you prepared to hold a parliamentary debate on the basis of a clearly defined mandate and risk analysis? Will this include the political and humanitarian approach?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u63	Mr President, Mr Van der Maelen, Mr Vandenput raised the question of whether we could hold a debate before the government decides. That needs to be looked at. In any case, several discussions have already taken place within the government regarding our contribution to the international coalition against IS, but no decision has yet been taken. In this respect, I can confirm that we have received a number of questions. I refer to the many answers I have given in various committee meetings. In practical terms, we were asked to use our men, who are training Iraqi security forces today in Baghdad, closer to the front, in an advisory and assisting role, helping to plan, coordinate air ground support and so on. As far as the F-16 species are concerned, we were asked to review the caveats we introduced at the time. More specifically, the question is whether we can extend our scope beyond Syria. I want to be clear about that. I've always said that only bombs will never solve the problem. So I'm joining Minister Peeters in the sense that there has to be a bigger picture. And that is what is happening today, Mr Van der Maelen. We note that ISIS has largely stopped, is gradually being reduced and so we are gradually moving towards phase 2 of the global plan of the international coalition. In this sense, we, like the Dutch, must consider to what extent we can cut the supply lines from IS to Iraq from Syria. I think that is very important. I would also like to draw your attention once again to the fact that each country acts in the international coalition in accordance with its own rules of engagement. That means we have the reins in our hands. In fact, the latest report confirmed that there has not been a single victim of collateral damage on all our missions to date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u64	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what have we learned today? First of all, Didier Reynders spoke in turn. Once again, we find that this government is a gibberish government that explains anything about important decisions such as participating in foreign operations. Secondly, we may have a parliamentary debate. I haven't heard any commitment yet. I have heard Mr Vandenput and Mr Yüksel insist on this. I hope that this time we will force this government to hold a parliamentary debate with unanimity. Thirdly, Minister of Defence, you are talking about a global picture, but it is a global military picture. It is clear that without a political strategy, addressing the core of the problems, including breaking Sunni isolation, the problem in Syria cannot be solved. I regret to note that you are obviously still not convinced of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u65	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. We believe that a prior debate is crucial before the government makes a decision. I invite Mr Van der Maelen to meet as chairman of the committee from a joint committee so that both ministers can take part in the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u66	I've asked you three times!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u67	Proceed, Mr Vandenput.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u68	Understanding the risk analysis and the full 3D approach is also crucial. Finally, Minister, we would like to stress that we want to equip our military with all the necessary equipment when we give them an order so that they can carry it out safely and fully. However, I believe that this is also your concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u69	This brings us to the end of the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u70	Following the terrorist attacks on Tuesday 22 March 2016, the following Parliamentary Assembly expressed my condolences: - the Senate of the French Republic, - the Parliament of Canada, - the Advisory Assembly of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, and - the House of Representatives of the Republic of the Philippines. In connection with the terrorist attacks on Tuesday, 22 March 2016, I received messages of support and condolences from the following parliamentary assemblies: - the Senate of the French Republic, - the Parliament of Canada, - the Consultative Assembly of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and - the House of Representatives of the Republic of the Philippines.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u71	In accordance with the opinion of this afternoon's Conference of Presidents, I propose that on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary sitting, the bill by Mr Philippe Goffin, Mrs Sonja Becq, Mr Christian Brotcorne and Mr Gilles Foret and Mrs Özlem Özen, Sarah Smeyers and Carina Van Cauter amending the law of... amending the law of 25 Ventôse year XI on notarial duties concerning the nomination committees for the notary (Nos 1801/1 to 3). I propose that the legislative proposal be dealt with as the first point. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents at this noon, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the bill by Mr Philippe Goffin, Mrs Sonja Becq, MM. Christian Brotcorne and Gilles Foret and Mrs Özlem Özen, Sarah Smeyers and Carina Van Cauter amending the Law of... amending the Law of 25 Ventôse an XI containing organization of the notariat with regard to the commissions of appointment for the notariat (Nos. 1801/1 to 3). I propose that this proposal be included as a first point. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u72	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Philippe Goffin, Sonja Becq, Christian Brotcorne, Gilles Foret, Özen Özlem, Sarah Smeyers, Carina Van Cauter. No report. I don't have anything to do with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u73	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for co-signing this proposal. Mr Van Hecke, we were able to talk about it in the committee; a second reading often makes sense. This was the case. The principle of this legislative change in relation to the appointment boards is obviously unchanged. The idea was to pass on the know-how to the members of this committee. Just for the sake of wanting to go a little too quickly, it was essential to give some clarification to this legislation, the aim of which, I repeat, is to allow this follow-up of know-how. As there has been some concern in the transcription of this will, I would like to take this moment to clarify one or the other element, so that this law can be applied under the best conditions and that these commissions of appointment can be set up perfectly legally. Furthermore, it must be avoided that candidates in this competition are concerned that, if necessary, a commission should be invalidated because it does not comply with the legal provisions. So here are some details. With the text that was voted, it was not possible for a person who had never sat on the appointment boards, and therefore was not outgoing, to appear. The current proposal allows for this. In the text voted for 15 days ago, the possibility existed only for members already present in the committee. Clearly, today, someone who has not yet served or who is no longer a member of the Commission may, if necessary, be appointed for a period of two years. In addition, a person who has already served two four-year terms will no longer be able to represent himself. It is also very clear. Another element that is essential to clarify is that a person who has served for four years will not be able to hold a term of office, even for a temporary period of two years. The principle of separation from one mandate to another remains decisive. Finally, it is not necessary to wait four years to apply for a new term. From now on, half of the renewal every two years, an outgoing member could very well apply two years after the end of his or her former term of office.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u75	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u76	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1801/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1801/3) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u77	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u78	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u79	Mr President, please allow me to refer to the written report. If you will allow me, I would like to say very briefly that we are pleased that these directives are bringing forward a further update of our sexual criminal law. It's had years of stagnation. In this legislature, and also in the previous one here and there, adjustments have been made to technological and social evolutions. During the discussions, our group had two reservations, which I would like to repeat. A first thought is about the extra power given to Child Focus, which will become some kind of civilian hotline that will screen websites. I asked the Minister in committee to provide the necessary framework. I repeat that question today. Indeed, the exercise of criminal proceedings cannot be outsourced to private individuals. Of course, we still have confidence in Child Focus, but we are asking for a framework. A second reflection concerns the extension of the right to speak. I believe that there should also be an evaluation in this area. Professional secrecy is important, especially for the aid workers. We know from the discussions in the Committee on Sexual Abuse, we know that many aid workers fear that, if professional secrecy is too fierce, the victims will no longer come to speak. We must not, of course, cause this to happen. I would like to give that concern to the Minister. In an evaluation, these factors should certainly be checked.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u80	Mrs De Wit, I assume that you have expressed your group's position, while referring to the written report for the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u81	Yes, I started with that reference, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u82	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the MR supports this project and all the actions that aim to pursue child pornography in all its forms as effectively as possible. The project enables Belgium to comply with European provisions. That's a very good thing. Belgium is thus updating its legislation on sexual criminal law, in particular as regards its international dimension following the use of new means of communication: on the one hand, the requirement to delete child pornography websites as soon as possible and, on the other hand, the fact that it is now prohibited, with an explicit sanction, to watch live child pornography shows broadcast on the Internet. This criminalization was necessary in order to best respond to new cases related to the evolution of technology. The project makes it an offence to witness the debauchery of a minor on-line by technological means of information and communication. A very important element of this legislation is the facilitating role of Child Focus. Child Focus will be able to legally view child pornography sites and report them to the courts with a view to blocking them as soon as possible. Many questions remained about this new function given to Child Focus. In the context of the Justice Committee, after the presentation of the Minister and the exchange of views between them, we heard Child Focus in relation to the effectiveness of his work, the way in which the functioning of this institution is regulated, the means that this would require. The appeasements have been made, concrete answers have been given to the fact that Child Focus is ready for this new obligation to follow even more what is happening on the Internet, to bring professional screening to possible child pornography sites, and thus to provide a much faster response to the difficulties encountered. We were a little afraid that it would be a form of privatization of the police or justice function, but that is not the case: it is an actor that adds to the existing arsenal of police and justice. The expertise being what it is, being part of an international network also facilitates the quality of the work and its effectiveness. Child Focus really informed us from a concrete point of view. Mr Minister, my group will support this text with enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u83	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the text before us today is a very important text. He was also thoroughly discussed in the committee and paid due attention to the many questions put by my fellow Members. There was no discussion about most of the text: there were a number of legislative amendments to increase the fight against child pornography. Of course, we support that 100%. Key questions were asked, especially about the role of the hotline. In practice, this will be Child Focus, as the committee chairman has just mentioned. The first fundamental question, which has been asked from different angles, is whether this does not involve privatisation of a police mission. When a private association is given an important role in a legislative text, in this case in the fight against child pornography, there is a need for vigilance and caution, because does this not mean that a number of fundamental tasks are being dismissed from the police, especially since the government is making an overall reflection exercise on police tasks? The answers were clear. The Minister made it very clear that the text does not constitute privatisation. Child Focus has also made that clear. To the specific question whether the police will not give orders for investigations to Child Focus, which would then work on the instructions of the police, it is quite clear that this is not the case. I would like to stress this in plenary because it is essential. A hotline should remain a hotline, and it can and should never be the intention that police tasks should be less focused and transferred to a private organisation. The only thing Child Focus can do, as has been clarified, is to filter out apparently unfounded reports. When it is found that information is stored or disseminated via foreign computer equipment, it can be passed on to foreign contacts. I don't think that's a problem at all, but that's as far as it goes. The second crucial question concerns cooperation between the police and the judiciary. Are you sure they can follow? The bill states that the police today have insufficient capacity to respond to the various reports. That is vengeful, that is interplaying, that is unacceptable. We are all convinced that we must fight against child pornography and its spread, but this also means that the capacity of the police and the judiciary must be monitored to ensure that it is implemented quickly and adequately. When we consider that this is not the case today, we expect you, Mr Justice Minister, and also your colleague from the Interior, to make this possible. I would like to quote from the report. As has been said, the person responsible for Child Focus has also been heard before the discussion. The question of how the cooperation was conducted was raised as follows. I quote Mrs De Pauw: "Child Focus has raised the alarm in the knowledge that the police did little to follow up on these images. There is a co-operation protocol with Child Focus that requires the police to inform Child Focus about the follow-up given to those photos. Unfortunately, that is not happening at the moment." There is therefore insufficient feedback, despite the fact that agreements have been made on this issue. It is clear that there are also problems with the capacity to analyse the cases reported on the substance. My question, Minister, is whether you would please do something about it. It is one thing here to adopt laws that are acceptable, good laws that are necessary for the fight to be stepped up. Executing it is another matter. If we find that they cannot be implemented, then their approval does not make much sense either. I hope that you will be able to reassure me later that effective action will be taken so that any findings that are reported can be properly followed up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u84	Mr President, the PS Group will vote for this bill for the role given to Child Focus, with this particular contribution of organised legal certainty for the intervention of Child Focus, which we welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u85	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr. Goffin, Van Hecke and Laaouej. Mr Van Hecke, in reply to your question, I can give you the following. We agreed in committee that the application of the new measure would be evaluated after one year with the help of the College of Attorneys General. That is also my real intention. It is clear that it will not help to make a whole lot of information available to police and judicial services if this information cannot be used effectively. So you have my word that we will carry out that evaluation in good time. You will remind me of that, by the way. I assume that after that evaluation we will take the necessary measures, on the basis of the figures we have received at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u86	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u87	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1701/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1701/4) The draft law contains 18 articles. The bill has 18 clauses. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u88	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u89	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 1664: Daphné Dumery, Robert Van de Velde, Sabien Lahaye-Battheu Franky Demon, Raf Terwingen. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these two legislative proposals. I propose that you devote one discussion to these two bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u90	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u91	I refer to my written report, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u92	Mr President, there is no new idea in this proposal. It is not a proposal that can be catalogued under the so-called "flammatory" policy, but it is a legislative amendment for which the judicial and police services have been a party for years. This concerns the issue of unauthorised entry into a closed area in ports, including damage to the security of the port area. For months now, the ports have been confronted with foreigners trying to cross illegally to Britain, a problem which we all know well and which has been discussed several times in Parliament. However, it may also be about individuals who, with other intentions, enter the port area, for example people who are not so close to our security or who have other ideas of prospecting within the port company. The scope of action of police and judicial services is currently very limited. They cannot actually act properly against such an intrusion. For them it is mopping with the crane open. This amendment of the law and the increase of the criminalisation allow the prosecution to impose a penalty in the event of multiple ingress, allowing the law to apply to the provisional detention. I repeat, this can be done. It is not up to the legislator to assess its appropriateness. It is up to us, ladies and gentlemen, to ensure that impunity is eliminated. The present legislative amendment therefore strikes a balance between, on the one hand, encouraging refugees to rely on our migration legislation and, on the other hand, punishing the violation of our criminal law, in which we do not allow the burglary and the unauthorized presence in a secure port area. It is also particularly sad to see that people who are fleeing choose to risk their lives by climbing into a container or entering a ship, while in our country they can have bed-bath bread and also a fair asylum procedure. It is particularly sad that they prefer to damage the crossing day after day, without the judicial services being able, in certain cases, to act. I'll end up where I started. It's not a new idea. All ferry ports are confronted with this, including at the time the port of Ostend, where at that time there was still a ferry service. Colleagues Johan Vande Lanotte van de sp.a and Louis Ide van de N-VA made such a proposal in the Senate at the time. However, this proposal never made it to the agenda of that legislature. I finally did. This is a very good bill, which we are waiting for in the field. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u93	Mr President, the figures which have been recalled and which have been developed in committee reflect the port reality which we cannot remain indifferent to. Mrs Dumery's proposal is, as she has just pointed out, in line with that of Mr Vande Lanotte in 2011, which was also intended to address this problem in port facilities. The presence of persons without any authorization in these high-security areas cannot be taken lightly. It is clear that these sites need to be secured. In particular, we talked about parallelism. I think it is also important, as it is for port and airport platforms, to be able to respond appropriately to the reality of these critical infrastructures and these infrastructure risks. The proposal before us today is, of course, intended to enable the judicial authorities, who are also asking for help, to respond to this reality. The MR Group will therefore support this proposal for these safety reasons linked to these critical platforms, namely ports or airports.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u94	Those who have read the report will have found that we cannot support the text for various reasons. Ladies and gentlemen, it is actually said that there is not much we can do today. The only thing we can do, if a refugee destroys a lockdown, is prosecute on the basis of a provision in the Criminal Code. Article 545 provides that six months of punishment may be imposed on a person who destroys a closure. That's a problem, because the investigating judge can't arrest that person. If he can't be apprehended, then he can't be deported or locked up. We must therefore ensure that this punishment is increased, that is the reasoning. The sentence must be increased to one year. That was the intention in the original draft, but then there was a majority amendment, which reduced the penalties again. What's the finality? The aim is to prevent refugees from entering port facilities and thus organise their flight. What, however, will happen in reality with this text? The current criminalisation is the basic sentence, in particular a prison sentence of eight days to six months. Even then, no arrests can be made. There's no remand. A sentence of up to one year will only be possible in case of a habit, at night, with two or more persons and so on. Will a investigating judge who is confronted with such a criminal record proceed to remand, because someone tried to enter a port area for a second time? In reality, that will hardly happen or not. Is that an adequate response to the problem? I'm afraid the answer will be negative. Moreover, an attempted intrusion is also punishable by a prison sentence of up to six months. There is no solution to this in this text either. So it looks like strong communication. We want to give the impression that a law will now be passed to deal with this problem, but in practice it will hardly come into the house. As with the previous text, we should make an assessment after one year to see whether that law is workable, Minister. I'm afraid so. Secondly, and for us very important criticism is that the definition of the crime has become so broad that it can reach an extent which I hope is unintentional. You know what I'm talking about: entering a port facility without permission. All types of non-violent action and demonstrations, for example an action by an environmental organisation such as Greenpeace against a company located in the port area, will be prosecuted by that law. This means that any social and trade union action in a port area will be punishable by a person entering a site without permission. It is said that the prosecutors will not do this, that the prosecutors will use their common sense. I hope so. We have a lot of sensible prosecutors. However, it has already happened in the past that associations such as Greenpeace are being prosecuted on the basis of legislation that was not intended for them at all. I'm thinking, among other things, of gang formation. This legal text can be used to break a social action, or following a complaint that can be made by companies on the basis of it. There is also a very serious danger that this legislative text, which seeks to control the problem of refugees, will be used against organisations that organise social actions in a peaceful manner. We can't rule this out. I therefore believe that no good legislative work is being done here, that this text will not solve the problem and that it will also have unintended effects. That is why we will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u95	Mr President, I would like to reassure all my fellow Members who have not followed the debate in committee, after the somewhat nuanced presentation by Mr Van Hecke. The one-year period is of course important for this majority, because it makes it possible, if desired, to proceed to pre-trial detention if the investigating judge so wishes and instructs the prosecutor to do so. However, there must be aggravating circumstances. These aggravating circumstances were also cited in the second instance by Mr Van Hecke. It is then about facts that happen for the second time, with multiple persons or at night. We have used this to prevent the happiness seeker, the asylum seeker who tries to flee in despair, from being able to deal with it, and rightly so, because that is not the intention. Mr Van Hecke also knows that the people on the ground in the ports are, I am talking about the police, the security services, the prosecutors and the governors who are asking for action. Of course, everything depends on the application of the law. In principle, any law can always be applied when looking at the letter of the law. It goes without saying, however, that the only way to prevent remand will be to deal with people who are not well-intentioned and who are repeatedly confronted. It is about people entering port areas where they can actually do a lot of harm and where they can create a lot of dangerous situations because there are many companies and dangerous installations there. At that time, the investigating judge, whether or not advanced by the prosecutor, will be able to assume his responsibility. I assume, Mr Van Hecke, that he will do so in a sensible way and with a certain balance, when this is really necessary. I would like to stress once again that people on the ground know when it is necessary and when it is not. We must have confidence in the security services and in the judicial services. That same common sense will prevail when a investigating judge or a prosecutor has to judge whether a syndicate or other manifestation was intended in accordance with the spirit of the law and therefore falls under this law. Once again, we must not doubt the common sense of our magistrate, of the security services and of the investigators who apply these laws. Let it be clear, also for the report, that this is not intended to protect trade union movements or nature associations. That's not the point at all. It goes without saying that these movements must also comply with the law, but that is why they must not necessarily be afraid of a pre-trial detention under this law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u96	Mr President, as I said in committee, it is not clear what the added value of this text will be if it is voted on and if it is introduced into our legislative arsenal. It is clear that, behind some of the more or less clear or assumed statements, the focus is less on security in ports than on the fight against illegals and illegals who try to reach what they think is an eldorado. It is therefore a question of sanctioning illegals or illegals caught on the act or against recidivists who might find themselves behind bars. We are therefore concerned that many will be involved. We are once again faced with legislation that is clearly more symbolic or ideological than realistic and practical. The authors of the bill are so aware that they have indicated that, after one year, an assessment would be made of how the law has been implemented and whether or not an amendment is necessary. These are the reasons why I did not support this text in committee and my group will not support it earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u97	Mr President, first of all, I will not repeat all the arguments put forward by Mr Van Hecke, but I will follow him in that respect. I too am concerned that it will remain dead letter in practice. In the first instance, there must be sufficient police capacity to make a real difference in practice. Mr Van Hecke has raised many legitimate concerns which show that in practice it might remain dead letter. Secondly, I am disappointed that the original proposal has been watered down by many of the CD&V amendments so much that now that the provisional detention is possible in much less cases than was originally intended by this bill. Nevertheless, we want to give it a chance, we support the idea and we will approve it, but I would urge an evaluation after about a year of this legislation, to see if it really makes a difference in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u98	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u99	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1664/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1664/4) The draft law contains 5 articles. The bill has five articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u100	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u101	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Koen Metsu, Conseil Degroote, Brecht Vermeulen, Katja Gabriels.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u102	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Willy Demeyer and Mr Eric Thiébaut, rapporteurs, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u103	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1401/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1401/6) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u104	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u105	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Leen Dierick, Nahima Lanjri, Jef Van den Bergh, Franky Demon, Veerle Heeren.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u106	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Koen Metsu, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u107	Mr President, our group fully supports this proposal. What is more, we would like to go one step further and abolish the guarantee for all special accounting officers, not only for those police zones but also for all accounting officers working in other public services. We therefore support this proposal and want to take further steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u108	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u109	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (374/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (374/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u110	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u111	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Ms Özlem Özen, Ms Carina Van Cauter, Mr Peter Dedecker and Ms Nele Lijnen. They shall refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, I must apologize for the absence of my colleague, Karine Lalieux, who is suffering and who asked me to intervene at a standstill in order to give the position of the PS Group on this issue. I tried to soak up what had been done and to understand well, I believe that a brief history is still important. In 2006, the European Commission adopted Directive 2006/24 and required Belgium to transpose it before 15 March 2009. At that time, Belgian law already allowed access to the data in very broad terms, with little guidance on both retention and access, and a great delegation was given to the King to regulate these measures. At the end of September 2012, three years after the deadline, Belgium had still not transposed the European Commission's text. The Court of Justice has, of course, given notice to Belgium and has drawn its attention to the pecuniary penalties which the Court of Justice could impose on it. At the time, the problem was that agreement had not been reached in successive governments. At the PS group level, we really wanted to restrict access to data that seemed eminently personal to us. Following the transposition and the request of the European Commission, we had accepted a text which was, for us, maximalist. This text was voted by our Parliament in July 2013, as a matter of urgency. It's about time, you know. On 8 April 2014, the European Court of Justice invalidated all Directive 2006/24 on the ground that it disproportionately exceeded the limits which imposed respect for the right to privacy and the protection of personal data guaranteed by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Consequently, on 11 June 2015, the Constitutional Court annulled the July 2013 law transposing the Data Retention Directive. Since then, the European Commission has not taken a new initiative in this area. On the substance, we are of the opinion that we need to legislate. On the other hand, my group regrets – and that is why it will not vote for this text – the willingness to get this law out. However, the directive dates back to 2006. A year more or less will not fundamentally change things. We deplore this desire to vote urgently, while the European Court of Justice must reply in the coming months to a question referred by a Swedish court for a preliminary ruling. Therefore, it would seem to us more logical to await the Court's opinion. Indeed, its decision could, for example, again invalidate an emergency passed law. In addition, we had asked for the hearing in committee of some experts, but this was refused to us. We do not understand your eagerness in view of the time it took and ask that this text be returned to committee, in which we could also freely receive experts. It is a shame not to learn the lessons of the past. I would add that the issues involved in this text are important in terms of the protection of the privacy of all our citizens. Our request is therefore simple: could we not take a little time and wait for the opinions of the European Court of Justice, which may again invalidate a vote by our House? If that were not the case, we would regret to tell you – although I'm sure it won't hurt much – that the PS group will not vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u113	Mr. Chairman, our group has a number of comments on this bill that we have been following since 2013, Mr.Mathot, when we were already in the opposition and you, unfortunately, in the majority. As you mentioned, Mr. Mathot, section 126 of the Act has been overturned by the Constitutional Court, which is very rare. The law had already been challenged by the Greens in July 2013 and, even more rare, the directive on the basis of the transposition law was itself annulled. In this context, in this factual rarity in the Chamber, at least hearings were required and this was what the Ecolo-Groen group asked for. Hearings, for example of the Secretary of State in charge of privacy (rare in Belgian politics, there was one, Mr Tommelein and we have one today), expert hearings, starting with experts who were interviewed by the European Court of Justice or by the Constitutional Court, possibly a study (as the Bundestag did), which showed that in most cases the indiscriminate collection of data did not add value to judicial investigations and a joint meeting of the Justice and Infrastructure Committees. The latter meetings were held separately, which did not facilitate the analysis or discussion of the text. None of this has been achieved! Also, Ecolo-Groen, Mr. Van Hecke and I, for the Committee on Infrastructure, have asked Parliament for a second reading to give at least time to this parliamentary assembly to analyse this text in detail, which we have done. That's the context. Now, on principle. What's this all about? The aim is to preserve the data and metadata of the electronic interactions of all Belgians who surf the Internet, make telephone calls or communicate through their electronic devices. According to operators, these are more or less 13 million SIM card holders. These are all people connected to the internet, wireless or with wire. These are all people who have a telephone conversation via their landline. It is therefore all Belgians. We are not at all in the case of the laws that we passed a few years ago on data collection methods or specific research methods, which allow the police, the State Security, the military intelligence services to have data on a few potentially dangerous people. These people, because they represent a danger, are tapped, are subjected to precise, meticulous analysis of all the electronic interactions they have with other people in order to be able to counter a possible danger to society, property, persons, the security of the State. This is therefore a complete paradigm shift and the broken directive, the broken law, commits, creates this complete paradigm of potentially widespread surveillance, since, as I repeat here, all Belgians are concerned by this law, and more than just a few suspects. So we move from a paradigm where we were all presumed innocent, to another paradigm where we are all potentially guilty. First element. Secondly, on efficiency. Mr. Minister of Justice, Mr.Foret has just asked you about the collaboration of U.S. communications applications (such as WhatsApp, Viber, Skype, Facebook) and I would add Russian (such as Telegram). What is the collaboration of these foreign communications companies in the fight against organised crime, major crime and terrorism? You have rightly explained that without the cooperation of these companies, we will not be able to improve the fight against these people who are harmful and dangerous to our society. These applications are today the main communication vectors and are invisible terrain for our security services. Today, terrorists, great criminals, mafias use these means of communication, starting with Telegram because they know they are being tracked on normal networks (gsm, sms and the Internet). It is in these applications that action must be taken to combat serious crime, starting with terrorism. This law, which collects data from all Belgians, will do nothing to combat serious crime, starting with terrorism. In the cases that make the headlines, there was information about the suspects. The problem is that this information was too much and that too much information makes the investigation unmanageable. The challenge for more efficiency is to have adequate information about the person concerned, nothing more but nothing less. To improve the effectiveness of our police and intelligence services, it is not about having information about everyone. Having information about everyone does not make the information relevant and, as a result, does not make the information effective. The Court of Justice of the European Union and the Constitutional Court are challenging Article 126, which was annulled because it is considered to be unproportional. There must be a balance between the obvious and fundamental need for security and the fundamental right to privacy. It was on this basis that the law was annulled. That is why, three years later, this trade bill is being introduced. We're working on it again. A general principle which is defended by the Privacy Commission, which depends on our institution, the House of Representatives, but which is also defended by all the bodies in charge of privacy in Europe, that is to say that in terms of data collection, we must have as little data as possible to collect, make it accessible to those in need and at least people possible. Minister, you have worked effectively – I recognize it – on the number of people who have access to it. You give access to the data – and this is well thought out in relation to the previous law – at least people can. This is very effectively described in the law and not in the royal decrees, as was the case before, which is a certain step forward. On the other hand, with the durations of six, nine or twelve months, you make it possible to access this data to a large number of requests, whereas the opposite should have been done: to allow the lowest possible access to the data. I thus come to the famous comparison between article 126 and article 122. According to article 126, which you are amending, access is given to a series of data for six, nine or twelve months, depending on the seriousness of the alleged acts, to a number of persons belonging to the police, the State Security, the military intelligence services and the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. According to this article, the more serious the facts, the more accessible the amount of data, the less serious the facts, the less the amount of data available. However, in the Committee on Infrastructure, Mr. De Croo, stated that Article 122 regulates the access and retention of data by communication companies for commercial and marketing purposes. But it is clear from the discussions we had in committee – this is reflected in the report – that the police services that can access the operators' database, under Article 126, can have access to the data collected for commercial and marketing purposes that we have no eye on. Indeed, the law does not set what marketing or commercial data is. As a result, these police or intelligence services will be able to access this data under section 122, which is of great concern to us. Finally, the protection of those responsible for the transmission of data to the police is regulated by law. I have asked questions about this in committee. What will happen if one day an employee of a communications company finds a serious breach, i.e. if he finds that data should not be transmitted to the services concerned because they are too old, inadequate or not proportionate? What will this data officer have to do if he finds a breach? Mr. De Croo said, "He warns his hierarchy." Today we have a lot of recent examples of whistleblowers being attacked by their former employer. I am thinking of the ongoing LuxLeaks case, where it is ultimately the whistleblower that is being brought to justice and which is being examined in detail, when it is the fraudsters who should be the subject of this examination. What happens today if a whistleblower at Base, Orange or Proximus finds that his company is breaking the law? I was told by Mr. De Croo - I was in the Infrastructure Committee and I couldn't go to justice at the same time - that he "should warn his hierarchy". I think that a royal decree should provide, since this can still be settled by royal decree, that in the event of a serious breach found by the data officer in an operator, a procedure at the IBPT, the prosecutor's office or I do not know where but in a place outside his company, be provided for. Thus, we would ensure that this law, which is essential for the protection of citizens' privacy, and I repeat that it concerns all Belgians, can be applied as safely and correctly as possible. Future whistleblowers would thus be protected and could go to a third-party court or external body. I am thinking of the IBPT or the Public Prosecutor's Office, so that whistleblowers can report the serious facts they would find in their company. You have understood that we have the worst fears in relation to this text. We have the same comments about him as we made in 2013. Although there are some improvements that I have noted, our fundamental remarks remain, and that is why the Ecolo-Groen Group will vote against this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u114	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us has only undergone a small facelift since its rejection and destruction by the Constitutional Court. That destruction was not directed against a detail in the text, but against the basic principle of the bill itself, the bulk collection of private data from all citizens. The Constitutional Court then ruled that maintaining metadata of all communications of all Belgian citizens was disproportionate to the objective pursued by law and that this crossed the line of what is proportionate. Moreover, the law did not contain sufficient guarantees against misuse of the data collected. The government claims that the new text takes account of the Court's criticisms for adding some new conditions and rules on access to and security of data. However, the basic principle itself that the collection of data applies to all persons has remained unchanged in the new text, which was the first and main concern of the Constitutional Court. In 2014, the European Court of Justice already made firewood of the same principle to collect massive data from all citizens in a structural manner in a destruction of the Irish and Austrian draft laws, on which the Belgian Government's draft law seems like two drops of water. I would remind you of the Court's strong reasoning. Firstly, the bulk collection of data from all citizens is a violation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Secondly, the Court considers that the directive constitutes a very wide and particularly serious interference in the fundamental rights, privacy and protection of personal data guaranteed by Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter. Thirdly, the Court also states that such detention and its use without the citizen being aware of it, I quote: 'Incite the feeling that their private life is constantly being monitored, that the vague feeling of being controlled may have a certain influence on the exercise by European citizens of their freedom of expression and information and that, consequently, interference should also be established in the rights guaranteed by Article 11 of the Charter.' The result of a law that every citizen considers suspicious is indeed that everyone has the feeling of being controlled constantly. This is unacceptable under the rule of law. Legal organisations and human rights organisations, the French-speaking and Dutch-speaking Leagues for Human Rights, NURPA and datapanik therefore wrote a common position against this bill. They ask Parliament to make a clear statement against this draft, and I quote: 'We are against the unbridled monitoring of our communications data'. If this does not happen, we will have to return to our rights and freedoms without any use in the fight against terrorism and serious crime. Those who damage privacy also affect other fundamental rights and freedoms. For what remains of freedom of expression, freedom of organisation and freedom of the press, if any communication is recorded via the Internet or the telephone and can be requested, inter alia, by the Security of the State? The world-famous whistleblower Edward Snowden explains the importance of privacy as follows. I quote: "Privacy is essential for a large number of our activities. Whether you call a suicide line, visit an abortion clinic or a porn site or make an appointment for rehabilitation, have you treated for a disease or when whistleblower calls a journalist, there are countless reasons for wanting to keep that kind of activity to yourself and they have no connection to qualifications as illegal or wrong. The legal text still contains two dubious arguments for doing this damage to privacy. They were cited by ministers in the committee: the fight against terrorism and the fact that many operators already have the right to store such data from their customers for commercial purposes, while many citizens are now throwing their privacy away from commercial companies such as Facebook and Google. For that last argument, I can be brief. If the government believes that the privacy of its citizens is compromised by the commercial activities of large companies such as those multinationals, then I would prefer to see it put forward a bill to protect the privacy of its citizens against these multinationals rather than, in the reverse, making that data available to the State itself on a massive scale. The Minister's argument that this bill could contribute to the fight against terrorism and serious crime is also incorrect. Legal and democratic civil society explicitly states this. More than that, it has been painfully demonstrated by the tragic events of recent months. The mass collection of data from innocent citizens who can never be processed does not contribute to the fight against terrorism. On the contrary, it prevents a targeted and effective approach. In a rare moment of repentance, even Minister Geens admitted, a few days after the terrible attacks in Brussels and Zaventem, that the problem of the security services is not that they have too little data, but that they have too much data that they cannot process. As a result, the court is always faced with facts. Instead, we need a preventive and targeted approach. Preventive screening of potentially dangerous individuals can prevent crimes without compromising the privacy of innocent citizens. Following the attacks in Paris, the PVDA tabled a resolution for a democratic and effective fight against terrorism. The resolution breaks with the ideological dogmas of this government in favour of an approach that really works to prevent attacks through targeted investigation into suspicious individuals. There must be an ideological struggle against Salafist extremism. The social and economic breeding ground of the recruiters must be removed, and a foreign policy must be pursued that weakens the Islamic State, rather than supporting extremist regimes such as that of Saudi Arabia and sow even more war and chaos in the region. Because the reverse approach, the fig-after-Pasen policy in which everyone is guilty rather than proven innocent to the contrary, has proved bankrupt in France and Belgium and the rest of the world, the PVDA will not support this bill. We hope that all democrats in this hemisphere will follow us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u115	Mr President, in the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Infrastructure, we abstained, particularly for reasons of methodology. The substantive objectives are highly commendable, but the approach is questionable. This text was studied in two different commissions, while an analysis of the two commissions would have been much more relevant, more enriching and would have allowed everyone to have an overall view of its impacts. The same applies to the hearings that were expected and that could not be organised, which we regret. This law had been passed previously while the CDH was in the government. The text has still been improved even though many imperfections remain. We will see what the Constitutional Court will say. But we need to move forward on those issues that also affect security, and the current context reminds us of that every day. That is why the CDH will vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u116	Mr. Chairman, why was it necessary to correct this law? Telecom operators are in absolute uncertainty. Can data be collected at this time? Is the use of this data legal? We want to clarify the situation as quickly as possible in order to avoid any problems in the future. Mr Hellings, you repeated the remark you made in committee. I feel like you didn't really listen to the answer. You're saying there's no view of commercial data. That is not correct, and I have replied to this in committee. The general rule is that operators cannot keep the data. However, there are two exceptions. The first concerns invoicing. There is an enumeration of the data that can be retained for the duration of the billing process or to settle a billing dispute. The second provides that data may be retained for a reasonable period of time for a marketing purpose. When you say that there is no view and that we are collecting a lot of data in an unreasonable way, that is not at all what is in the law. We have discussed this extensively in committee. You're also saying that what we're setting up here is mass surveillance, etc. I don't think that's the case at all. There is a great difference between data collection and access to data. It's not because we collect data, it's because everyone has access to it. Access is defined very strictly and does not change from the previous law. Defining this as a collection of everything about everyone with the possibility of having investigations in all directions is inaccurate. We're trying to create a framework that is, I think, reasonable and that allows us to do research when we need it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u117	Mr President, I can only confirm the answers that my dear colleague, Alexander De Croo, gave regarding the urgency and the fact that it is not because the data must be kept that we are drowned in them. On the contrary, they must be asked if necessary. Mr Mathot, with regard to the Swedish question to which you referred, it is clear that the question has been considered and that one can never be sure of it before a court or a court. On the other hand, with the positive opinions we have received from the Council of State and the Commission on the Protection of Privacy, we are confident that we will pass the test, especially since in the European Council of Justice we have had an eloquent consultation, which has reassured us of the possibility for the Court of Justice to pass a law that differentiates according to the type of crime and the type of threat, which we are doing in this case. However, I would like to point out that the grievances of the opponents of this bill in the name of privacy – I am not sure I understood it as such – while at the same time insisting on the openness given to international Facebook and other operators, have been inappropriate. Indeed, to fully understand the IP of a Facebook address, it takes from time to time to wait nine months and to reconnect this address given by Facebook to our national telecom operator. We really need to keep this data outside the commercial framework that my colleague Alexander De Croo mentioned. Mr President, these are the few reasons why we believe that the vote on this draft is urgent in the interests of national security.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u118	Mr De Croo, for commercial data, you said in committee (Article 122-123 of the report on these commercial data on page 14) that "it is not possible to determine this period in a specific number of months". This means that today, telecom operators keep, for an imprecise number of months, data that can be made available to police and intelligence authorities if they so request. I must not remind you that databridges, i.e. the existence of malware or backdoors in telecom operators' servers, are not cinema. This isn't about James Bond. Two years ago, on the server of a subsidiary of Belgacom, which has since become Proximus, the entire metadata stored on this server was returned to a foreign authority, namely the British intelligence services (GHQ), which we know are working together with the American NSA. What are we talking about here? We're talking about that. Therefore, in order to prevent personal data from being hacked by a private company or foreign intelligence service, the lowest possible amount of data must be collected. That's where the duration plays. A priori, we are not against a reasoned collection of data, but it is a matter of ensuring that the data to be kept are as short as possible. In this case, you have a problem. It's not science fiction. When we discovered the backdoor installed by the GHQ, two years ago, it was on the server of the main telecom operator in Belgium, namely Belgacom became Proximus.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u119	Mr President, I will not prolong the debate but rather try to add value to it. We are indeed entering into a very interesting debate, it seems to me, with in particular what could be called the "territoriality of data" that exists in France. In France, the data must be on French territory and cannot be found in another country, which leads to the impossibility of piracy by other States or requests from abroad which would be responded to favourably. What we have just said is that we were not in total opposition and limited to this project. At the time, we had voted in another way. Nevertheless, we are asking ourselves questions about this urgency after ten years. The urgency is still very relative! It's been ten years since everything's going well, and now we can't live without this law! That is what we regret because this issue creates the debate and deserves to be much more thorough in committee with experts and studies that could shed light on the positions to be taken and possibly on the law. We don't know what the Court of Justice will say tomorrow, but we know we're only a few months away from a decision. Again, is the emergency there? Can we not wait a few months for at least not to end up, in the same way, with an obligation to delete a law that we would have voted for?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u120	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u121	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committees is the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1567/14) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committees serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1567/14) The title in Dutch was changed by the Committee in draft law on the collection and retention of data in the electronic communications sector. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article and in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article. The draft law has 16 articles. The bill has 16 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u122	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u123	Colleagues, I note that many speakers have joined in the debate on the bill concerning public procurement (No. 1541/1-12), so I propose to defer consideration of this bill to next week as the first item after the oral questions. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u124	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Els Van Hoof, Sarah Claerhout, Franky Demon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u125	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt. 85, 4) (1174/9) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt. 85) (1174/9) The title was changed by the committee to "proposal for a resolution on the inclusion and anchoring of the right to social protection in Belgian international policy." The title has been changed by the committee to "proposal for a resolution to incorporate and anchor the right to social protection in Belgian international policy". The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u126	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to report on the discussion in committee of the motion for a resolution on the inclusion and anchoring of the right to social protection in Belgian international policy. The Committee discussed this proposal for a resolution at its meetings of 27 October 2015 and 19 April 2016. It was also decided to hold a hearing on 8 March 2016. There were nine speakers from different disciplines: the International Labour Organisation, the DGD, the FPS Social Affairs, the National Union of Socialist Mutualities, the Institute of Tropical Medicine, 11.11.11 and SOCIEUX. In her introductory statement, Mr Van Hoof, the main proposer of the motion for a resolution stressed the importance of social protection as a fight against poverty. However, in many developing countries the structures are lacking to ensure such social protection. In the context of development cooperation policy, it considers that particular attention should be paid to social protection as part of poverty reduction policies. She refers to Olivier De Schutter, member of the United Nations Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, who states that social protection depends only on the political will to introduce it. This political will requires, first of all, a clear framework to make social protection operational. Mrs Van Hoof refers, among other things, to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Trade Organisation and the European Commission. It also points out that Belgium has a recognised expertise in installing high-quality social protection. In this context, our country could easily play a leading role in development cooperation. It therefore calls for the adoption of the motion for a resolution calling on the Federal Government to: Firstly, putting social protection at the heart of future development strategies. Secondly, to continue to play a leading role in international organisations in order to develop maximum universal social protection. Thirdly, to instruct DGD to develop, within a reasonable period of time, a position paper to ensure and strengthen full social protection, decent work and universal health care through Belgian Development Cooperation and to consider social protection as one of the priority themes in the cooperation programmes with partner countries and in the common framework for the joint multi-annual programming of the European Union's development assistance. In the general discussion, Mr Grovonius stressed that her group actively advocated the right to social protection on an international scale and its inclusion in Belgian development cooperation policy. It recalls that during the previous parliamentary term the PS Group and the sp.a Group tabled a resolution on global social health protection. Although Mrs Grovonius agrees with the motion for a resolution that social protection deserves Parliament's attention and support, she does not consider this proposal to be far-reaching enough. It must therefore seek to be constructive in order to have a real impact on development cooperation. Mr Dallemagne expressed his satisfaction with the presentation of this motion for a resolution. It establishes a link between the issue of decent work and that of health, in this case through the widest possible social protection. The proposal also offers the opportunity to exert more influence on sustainable development. I have taken the floor on behalf of my group. We support the motion for a resolution. Dignificant work and social protection are essential elements in any policy aimed at sustainable development. However, we believe that a number of important aspects were missing from the text. That is why we have tabled a number of amendments, and I shall explain them later. Mr De Vriendt would have preferred the various political groups to have worked together in view of the importance of the subject. He added that he was nevertheless in favour of this motion for a resolution. Mr Hellings refers to the trade agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Columbia and Peru, of the other part, done in Brussels at the end of 2012. This will have a negative impact on the social protection of farmers in Columbia and, to a lesser extent, Peru. In this respect, Mr Hellings regrets that this motion for a resolution does not call for real binding rules, which, in his view, will leave the proposal dead letter. Open Vld has tabled several amendments. They were approved by the majority parties. The whole amended proposal of the resolution was adopted by ten votes in favour and three abstentions. So much for the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, I would like to thank my fellow Members who have made it possible for this text to be translated into plenum. On this symbolic day, Parliament will vote on a resolution which places social protection at the heart of Belgian foreign policy. A year ago, a unique coalition of sickness funds, civil society organisations, NGOs and trade unions decided to reinforce this message. Social protection for all became a widely supported campaign. Many countries and governments responded to the crisis that broke out in 2008 by cutting expenditure, postponing poverty reduction programmes, reducing social expenditure and undermining labour rights. This approach was not in line with the message of the International Labour Organisation, which said: "Consider social protection not as a problem, but as part of the solution." Make work of minimum social protection conditions for medical care, sickness benefit and family income. That message was repeated in 2009 with Recommendation 202 of the International Labour Organisation. Why is social protection now so important in developing countries? The 2015 ILO World Social Protection Report makes the consequences of the choices made in 2008 and 2009 painfully clear. Five billion people have inadequate social protection, making them vulnerable to any setback. This also means that fantastic events, such as the birth of a child, have to be faced with fear, because their financial impact can put them in poverty. Every year 100 million people end up in poverty because they are unable to bear the cost of their health care. However, it has been proven that social protection provides a healthier and therefore economically more productive population. In doing so, attention should be paid both to the classically vulnerable groups, such as the sick or elderly, and to the large group of informal workers in developing countries, who may dare to take more risks to invest if they also feel that they are socially protected if they take a risk. It is a very old right that we must update and operationalise. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights recognises the right to social protection in Article 25. However, the concept of social protection was far from being understood. The resolution before us today is determined to value social protection and to give it a central place in future Belgian international policy and not least in development policy. The text of the resolution also reminds the federal government not to be lighthearted about commitments that our country has already made. As far as development cooperation is concerned, the international spirit of time also forces us to put social protection into practice. Think of Agenda 2030 with the SDGs or sustainable development objectives, in which social protection occupies a very prominent place. Social protection is both an objective and a means of achieving other objectives. This is a more concrete objective 1.3, which sets out the implementation of national protection mechanisms that contribute to health, gender equality and decent work. Social protection is a means of achieving a good income and a good life. With this resolution, Belgium is showing itself as a guide country that understands the needs of today's international reality very well. In this respect, Prime Minister Charles Michel reiterated his commitment to social protection and decent work at the SDG Summit. The policy letter of Minister De Croo also clearly recognises social protection as a sine qua non in order to achieve a serious development policy. The impact of a lack of social protection on developing countries is considerable. Making social protection work is also a way of tackling systemic challenges. We all know them: the climate, the environment, migratory flows. If we can counter this with social protection, it also means that people can live in their own country in a good way. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a question of cans, but above all of wills. Olivier De Schutter, member of the Committee on Economic, Political and Cultural Rights of the United Nations, also mentions the realization of social protection not as a matter of will. Studies carried out by the ILO and the UN indicate that an investment of 3% of a country's gross national product guarantees minimum social protection. That is significantly less than what some countries spend on arms and defence. Social protection, ladies and gentlemen, is about investing in people, from Brazil over Central Africa to Southeast Asia. We can give many examples. In fact, we did so during the hearings and the discussions. I won't repeat them today. Wanting and being able, that's what it's all about. This brings me straight to the heart of this resolution. As far as the possibility is concerned, our country is one of the top social protection groups in the world. Our country has built up a huge tradition of social dialogue throughout its history. Social partners, government and civil society have built this country into the social welfare state it is today. This expertise is an international strength of Belgium in the world. What this resolution does is to provide that Belgian expertise with the political will to anchor social protection as an integral part of the future Belgian international policy. This resolution puts concrete building blocks on the table to make social protection a Belgian export product that meets the highest quality standards. We want to take the lead internationally and we want to use the Belgian expertise through the FPS Social Security Office, via BTC and DGD, in order to give people in developing countries a better life. In this resolution, we preach in particular the multi-actor approach. The Belgian authorities should not only do so, but should mainly support social actors, NGOs and civil society to do so. Social protection should also be a priority in the indicative cooperation programme "Privacy' with partner countries. That is why we ask the Minister for Development Cooperation to develop a Belgian position paper and to ensure and develop social protection, decent work and universal health care through the Belgian international policy. Ladies and gentlemen, on the eve of Rerum Novrum, this Parliament is voting on a resolution which translates a 125-year-old message into today's world. By fulfilling these commitments, Belgium is making people dream about the future again elsewhere. The question is not whether Belgium can do this, because that question has been answered for a long time. The only question left to the Chamber of Representatives is whether we want to do so. I believe that this resolution makes it very clear that this is the case. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u128	Mr President, I will be very brief. Most of this has already been said by Mrs Van Hoof. Following the Millennium Development Goals, the post-2030 Agenda has been developed, including a chapter on social protection. This is not only about breaking the poverty cycle, but also about combating inequality, climate change, security and so on. With this proposal for a resolution, the proposers are moving forward and are already working on the European Commission's 2012 recommendations. The N-VA Group did not need a resolution in itself. After all, we were confident that social protection would be addressed through sustainable development goals and thus would also be reflected in the policy choices of Minister De Croo, which the latter also stated in his policy statement. However, we have nothing against the motion for a resolution, which we shall therefore vote for.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u129	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the presence of a text full of surprises. Unfortunately, not all of them are good. On the form, we are surprised to see the MR-N-VA majority focus on social protection in the world, while ironically, the same majority is constantly trying to unblock our social security and protection. When the N-VA wants to desocialize Belgium, the majority claims to want to do the opposite in the rest of the world. It makes you feel like you're hearing "do what I'm saying, not what I'm doing." Of course, there's something to ask. On the other hand, the Open Vld found it wise to withdraw, through amendments, any reference to development cooperation. Indeed, it would be a shame to grant a voluntary mandate to Minister De Croo. However, development cooperation, together with our diplomacy, has a major role to play. This text no longer speaks of cooperation, but of our country's "international policy". We can also regret it. I now turn to the background analysis. Like you, Mrs Van Hoof, my group is actively advocating the defence of the right to social protection at the international level, therefore through our development cooperation. We go even further, since, under the previous legislature, PS and sp.a had together drafted a text on the promotion of universal social protection for health. For my group, this is indeed a priority. In this regard, we took the initiative by adopting a motion for a resolution on sexual and reproductive rights. My colleague Karine Lalieux had defended her. The resolution, adopted by a large majority, already stressed the need for universal social protection for all vulnerable persons. It is a fundamental right, which is recognized by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Social protection is a key condition for sustainable, inclusive and equitable development to address growing inequalities between and within countries. This social protection is one of the four pillars of decent work recommended by the International Labour Organization. This approach had been adopted by the MM Ministers. Magnette and Labelle under the Development Cooperation Act 2013, as highlighted in the explanatory memorandum to this resolution. This Government must therefore continue in this direction. We also welcome the fact that Belgium has made social protection and work worthy of absolute priorities in the new post-2015 development framework. In this context, the involvement of all partners in cooperation is obviously essential. I welcome the fact that our amendment to integrate the role of health mutuals has been unanimously adopted in committee. It is strange, moreover, that it was necessary to wait for this amendment to see this reference made in the text, when mutuals, as we know, are doing an essential job, including in the context of international solidarity. This is a minimal consolation for my group. Indeed, our two red lines have unfortunately been swept away by the majority. The first dealt with the primary importance of the State's role in social protection. The second concerned the financial aspect and the importance of providing the means to ensure that this principle is effectively implemented, in particular through innovative sources of financing, such as the European tax on financial transactions. For the role of the State, Mrs Van Hoof, you have argued in committee that it is self-evident. However, seeing how the current government is trying to destroy our public services and undermine our social security, we are still entitled to question ourselves. Similarly, cuts in the budgets for cooperation and the question of the role of the State in promoting social and environmental rights will all be different from what we are defending; for the PS Group, it is indeed the responsibility of the States to ensure and assume this universal social protection for the benefit of their populations. Encouraging entrepreneurship is commendable and important, but not an end in itself. The State must be a guarantor of high social standards. Where is coherence then? How can it be understood that this majority defends tax and/or trade agreements which are dangerous, including for the countries concerned by this text? This coherence, before advocating it at European level or in international forums, we ourselves must implement it. We must ensure our duty in this area, in particular by demanding binding social and environmental standards in our international and commercial trade, by demanding decent wages and respect for human rights, or by assessing the impact of international treaties precisely on this coherence. We must do this by continuing to advocate for a tax on European financial transactions which would, in particular, make it possible to identify additional means of doing so; the House adopted a text of the PS to this effect, which had been co-signed by the MR Group at the time. In order to have proper social protection, we need resources, but in committee, the majority rejected our amendments to provide for it. Everyone knows that the leitmotiv of the current Minister of Finance is to bury the tax on financial transactions. That is the consistency of this government. If we support the author when she says that protection deserves the attention and support of Parliament, this text leaves us with too little taste. It leads us to think of deception, even hypocrisy. These are all the reasons why my group will abstain from voting on this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u130	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution on the right to social protection meets a real need. Social protection must be at the heart of Belgian international cooperation. We must fight against poverty in the face of the slightest setback. Not only does Belgium have the expertise to take a leading role, the Belgian commitment, based on its own experience and expertise, can also make a difference. The big question is why we are not acting on it. Why do we not give a more central place to social protection in our development cooperation, not only on paper but also in practice? I can only conclude that there is insufficient attention to be paid to concrete policy measures. Social protection, not only on paper but also in government policy, should become a real priority. That is why my group supports the motion for a resolution which seeks to focus on this issue. However, I have two comments to make on the final proposal. Firstly, the present proposal is a weakening of the original version. This is due to the various amendments tabled by the majority and adopted. One of the amendments sought to remove an explicit reference to more technical and financial support. The second amendment aimed at changing social protection as a priority theme into "one of the priority themes of the programme." The third amendment stated that a strategy paper should suddenly be out of the question, just a position paper, a clear weakening of the original proposal. We regret these changes to the original resolution, because the original text went beyond the current version. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a missed opportunity to send a strong and clear signal to the government. My second comment concerns my amendment, which includes an addition to the majority, namely an explicit reference to the resolution on global social health protection adopted by the Senate on 28 April 2009. This resolution has already stressed the importance of promoting universal social protection, including by defending the right to health. It was adopted by a large majority, 45 votes in favour and 5 abstentions, with Open Vld, N-VA and CD&V voting in favour. In the interests of continuity, therefore, a reference to this resolution cannot be missing. Unfortunately, the majority parties did not want that. However, the Belgian expertise on social protection is mainly in the insurance of health care. A reference to the resolution on universal health protection would therefore have been a logical consequence. On the positive side, however, my amendment with the explicit reference to transformative social protection was adopted at the committee meeting. If social protection focuses solely on protective, preventive and promotional measures, it will not achieve its objective. There must also be transformative measures at all levels. Only then can the barriers to social protection be dealt with in a structural way, i.e. exclusion, inequality, poverty and vulnerability. To sum up, ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution puts the finger on the wound. Five billion people end up in poverty because of the least setback. However, minimum social protection is feasible and affordable everywhere. That is why my group supports this proposal. We regret, however, that the authors have not gone further. The amendments tabled clearly weaken this proposal. This is a missed opportunity and, above all, contrary to the idea of making social protection a priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u131	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u132	The vote on the proposal will take place later. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u133	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u134	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u135	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u136	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1667/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1667/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u137	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u138	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u139	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1668/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1668/3) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u140	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u141	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Tim Vandenput referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u142	Mr President, I have two brief questions about this bill. Something about which there's absolutely nothing to be found in this bill...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u143	As you know, the Secretary of State is apologized. I do not know whether the minister present, Minister Borsus, can answer your questions. Otherwise, we will stop our work here and resume it next week. [[Sentiment]] It is exactly 6:00 p.m. and I propose to proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u144	In accordance with the opinion of today's Conference of Presidents, I propose that you depart from Rule 1.3., paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the Committees of Inquiry and allow two members of staff to be appointed per political group to attend meetings with closed doors, on the understanding that only one of these members of staff per political group can attend the meeting effectively. In accordance with the opinion of today's Conference of Presidents, I propose that you derogate from Rule 1.3., paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of Parliamentary Committees of Inquiry and allow for the appointment of two collaborators per political group to attend meetings in camera on the understanding that only one of these collaborators per political group may attend the meeting. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u145	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u146	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Public Health, Environment and Renewal Committee of the Society on April 26, 2016. The interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Health, the Environment and the Social Renewal of 26 April 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 127/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Daniel Senesael; - a simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Dirk Janssens et Jan Vercammen. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 127/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Daniel Senesael; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Dirk Janssens and Mr Jan Vercammen. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put that motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u147	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u148	Yes 77 Yes No. [[43]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[120]] Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u149	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 107 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 121 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1801/4) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (1801/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u150	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 118 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 120 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1701/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1701/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mr Laaouej has voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u151	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 89 Yes No. 32 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 121 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1664/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (1664/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u152	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 79 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 39 Abstensions Total 120 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1401/7) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (1401/7) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u153	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[120]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 121 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (374/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (374/5) Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u154	Mr President, I wanted to vote yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u155	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u156	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 87 Yes No. 24 No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 121 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1567/15) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1567/15)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u157	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 105 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 16 Abstensions Total 121 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1174/10) Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1174/10) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u158	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 116 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 116 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1667/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1667/4) Mr Christian Brotcorne voted in favour. Mr Van Biesen and Mr Dewael also voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-04-54-plenair-ip109x.u159	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 12 May 2016. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 12 May 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 12 May 2016, at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 12 May 2016 at 2.15 p.m.
