ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic472x.u1	The following questions will be converted into written questions: 11969 by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, Nos 12359, 12374, 12392 by Mrs Jadin, Nos 13028 and 13029 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu. Debates of the European Parliament 12985 by Mrs Poncelet is without object.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic472x.u2	Minister, on 27 May, a former Minister of Public Enterprises and a predecessor of yours spread as the first rumors of takeovers. Who among those involved has leaked this information to Mr Labille is so far unclear. According to De Tijd of 31 May 2016, a few weeks earlier an agreement had been reached with the management and board of directors of PostNL on the acquisition price. bpost would be willing to pay PostNL's shareholders EUR 5.10 per share. The method of payment would also have been agreed. Bpost's bid would consist of 70% of bpost shares and 30% of cash. As a result, the interest of the Belgian State in bpost would be reduced to 38.5% and the State would lose its majority stake. On 29 May 2016, PostNL confirmed that it had talks with bpost about a possible combination of both companies through a friendly public bid by bpost on all shares of PostNL. According to PostNL, the talks did not ultimately lead to agreement on the terms of such a transaction. There are, of course, differences of opinion about the impact of your predecessor's loose lips. The Time of 31 May quotes a negotiator who says that the deal would have gone down because the Dutch suddenly freaked out that bpost is a government company with which politics is at the wheel, as an excuse. Rather, it would be the Dutch themselves who ultimately did not like to put a Dutch company in Belgian hands. You stated on 2 June that you asked the management to consider the future of the company. You gave the management a mandate to look for a strengthening under three conditions, namely the preservation of the acquired rights of the staff, the development of a future project and the economic anchoring of bpost. Mr Minister, I have the following questions for you on the issue. First of all, what was the impact of the scattered rumors on the takeover calls? Secondly, what mandate were the government leaders given at bpost with regard to a possible takeover of PostNL? Can you explain more about the three conditions quoted? Thirdly, how did you communicate that mandate to the Executive Board? How was the meeting with the management? Fourthly, how would the acquisition be financed? Would the acquisition be paid with the issuance of new shares? Finally, how do you see the anchoring as a minority shareholder in the medium and long term?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic472x.u3	Mr President, Mr Yüksel, it is clear to me that the rumours that were spread on 27 May 2016 certainly did not help the discussions between Bpost and PostNL. Those conversations have been in the greatest discretion for a long time. Everyone knows that for such discussions about a merger discretion is absolutely necessary in order to achieve a successful result. By spreading the rumors, it was necessary to clarify in the very short term. Unfortunately, we all know what the result is. bpost-CEO Koen Van Gerven has therefore called spreading the rumors irresponsible and misplaced. Actually, I agree with him. As I mentioned earlier in reply to an oral question during the plenary session, I expect the FSMA's investigation to clarify who provided non-public information to whom, what impact that has had on the then ongoing discussions between Bpost and PostNL and to what extent that could lead to sanctions for those who leaked it. In the first instance, therefore, we must await the outcome of that investigation. bpost, of course, conducts its own investigation and cooperates with the FSMA investigation. Before we can see what can or should be done to avoid such sabotage by a former minister in the future, we must first wait for the FSMA's investigation. An investigation will also be carried out into the effects on the stock exchange price of bpost on the basis of the rumors spread on 27 May 2016. The impact on the international competitiveness of bpost is difficult to assess. However, we must not exaggerate. bpost-CEO Koen Van Gerven called jumping off the conversations with PostNL regrettably but also no drama. He wants bpost to continue to focus on a future in the new economy. There are two important observations. Firstly, bpost is one of the strongest postal companies in Europe today, thanks to the efforts and dynamism of employees and management. bpost is a profitable company and one of the most important employers in the country. A second observation is that the postal market is in full development. It's more like a revolution. Volumes in the mail market dropped by 5% last year. At the same time, the volume of packages increases sharply, by more than 15% per year. A company must be proactive in such market conditions. This is what bpost's management has been successful for some time: rolling out an active diversification and growth strategy to remain strong and relevant in a new economy. The government has indeed given a mandate to the management of bpost to look at options that strengthen bpost and guarantee future employment, and that within three clear lines that the government has legally established through the amendment of the 1991 law. Firstly, the acquired rights of bpost workers must always be guaranteed. I want to be very clear about that. The amended 1991 law adopted by this Parliament last year is crystal clear. The acquired rights of workers are anchored and protected. Anyone who deliberately tries to cause confusion or unrest about this is doing disinformation. Secondly, the company must follow an industrial logic, strengthening its business model with a view to new markets and future products. That too is good for employment. Thirdly, the company must anchor itself economically in our country. So there is anything but a sale, as some have claimed. It belongs to the autonomy of the company to decide for itself who is part of the negotiating team. This has been the case for the previous negotiations and will also be the case in the context of possible further discussions which the company would conduct. I cannot give details about the conversations between bpost and PostNL, for the simple reason that there is no deal. It is the management and not the government that is responsible for the day-to-day management of the company. With regard to the medium-term anchoring as a minority shareholder and the government's attitude on this issue, I have said on several occasions that bags below 51% are absolutely not taboo, but it is not fetish either. It's not an end in itself. This dossier must be viewed from an industrial and economic point of view, with the aim of making the company as strong as possible, guaranteeing job security for employees and confirming the economic role of bpost as a modern postal company. I know that some have said that they are in favour of a rapprochement between bpost and PostNL, but the company should not go below 50%. That is a bit bizarre from an economic point of view, because that would mean that a takeover would have to be financed entirely with debt and that a company as a post would be completely overloaded with debt, with the result that the investment capacity that bpost has to strengthen its activities would be completely destroyed. A reasoning in which one says that one has to keep at all price 50% is a reasoning that puts the future of bpost more at risk than using the very high value of one's own shares.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic472x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I have three further elements concerning the discussions on possible future collaborations. Firstly, when it comes to public undertakings, there must be discretion in all respects. Secondly, I am of course also interested with you in the outcome of the FSMA and bpost investigations, but I would like to hear the timing. Thirdly, you say that in such negotiations that 51% is not fetish for you. I think this is a healthy attitude, but we need to think about where the border is. In this case, the government's share would fall to 38.5%. Where is the limit for you to offer a healthy public undertaking economic and industrial opportunities? I think we need to think further about this, but I agree with you that that 51% should not be fetish. However, we must ensure that the link with the government remains sufficient in a public undertaking.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic472x.u5	Minister, on Friday 3 June, the unions announced a 24-hour strike at bpost. The ACOD, the socialist trade union, reports persistent problems with the remuneration system and the pay sheets. There would also be a continuous shortage of staff, so many people often have to work ten to twelve hours. Among other things, the social conflict at bpost in 2011 focused on the reimbursement of aid workers and the requested flexibility. bpost had the ambition to recruit 7 000 auxiliary staff and to achieve a central sorting by house number by 2017. Minister, I have a few questions about this. Firstly, what is the state of the social dialogue at bpost? When were the problems raised? Secondly, what solutions does the management propose? Thirdly, how many employees are sometimes faced with working days of more than nine hours and more than ten hours respectively? Fourthly, how many aid workers have been employed at the moment? Finally, what is the state of affairs with regard to sorting by house number?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic472x.u6	Mr President, I apologize for being a little late. I assume that the introduction was largely given and that the problem was outlined as to why there are questions from employees about the consequences of possible privatisation. Another pain point is the increase in working pressure. In my written record, I referred to an interview in the VRT journal, in which people stated that the workload has tripled. A second element in the written record was that the financial results are good. That is why I also have questions about employee participation in profits. Mr Minister, has there been any consultation with the trade unions and the board of directors? What was the result? How does the distribution of dividends work for employees at bpost? What are the proportions of the different categories of staff? Let me clarify what I mean by this. Suppose the profit is 100, do the members of the management committee receive 50%, the middle management 25% and the rest is distributed among the other 25 000 employees or is there a more equitable distribution? What are the award criteria for the bonus system for achieving the collective objectives? What are the relationships between management and employees?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic472x.u7	Mr President, Minister, the June strike was caused in particular by the aborted attempt of bpost to redeem the Dutch post in the utmost secrecy. In order to carry out this operation, bpost should have paid a portion in cash but also in shares, which would have put the state below the 50% mark. For more than ten years, postal workers have been familiar with restructuring plans one after the other. In 1984, there were 47,000 postal workers, we are much lower today. The CSC-Tanscom tract summarizes well the causes of postal anger. The factors that cause this anger are numerous, I quote: "The increase in productivity, the flexibility imposed, the elimination of jobs, the lack of constructive communication, the closures of post offices due to lack of staff, agile organizations (increased flexibility through the MSO plan), unpaid overtime, poorly calculated wages." In 2010, Johnny Thijs, the CEO of the time, created the status of auxiliary postal workers, factors paid about 11 euros per hour. This is now the only way to be hired to the post, and for this to happen, it is necessary to go through the interim box. However, the company is doing very well. With its 21% profitability, bpost is one of the most profitable postal companies in Europe. Minister, bpost said that "privatisation is not on the menu of discussions because the PostNL transaction is dead". Does this mean that bpost is looking for other ways to move forward in the privatisation of the company? Both you and the management of the post assured that in the event of privatization, you would not affect the status of workers. How do you see the protection of this status in case there is such privatization? What is the status of negotiations for a future CTC? What about better distribution of benefits for workers? How do you position yourself in relation to recent studies on bpost penitibility of work and union demands in relation to Georoute? Trade unions also report a shortage of staff in some subregions. What about it? What investments are planned by bpost to meet these needs?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic472x.u8	In connection with the social dialogue, there was recently a strike announcement for Monday 13 June. In this context, the trade unions referred to the increased unrest resulting from the news about the talks with PostNL and to the ongoing problems in the workplace as a result of the increased workload. The Executive Board has said that it understands this unrest and wants to eliminate it in a further social dialogue with the social partners. Social dialogue in the enterprise has now continued. In fact, important commitments have been made recently. For example, additional employees are attracted to strengthen the teams on the ground. In addition, the necessary arrangements were made to continue the discussions and to conclude a collective agreement as soon as possible for the period 2016-2017. As regards the social dialogue within bpost, it may also be mentioned that the bpost management and the social partners have reached a formal agreement on the renewal of certain measures for 2016 such as, inter alia, a non-recurring bonus which can be paid in 2017. These provisions relate to the end-of-care and leave arrangements prior to targeted retirement and the commitment not to carry out dry lay-offs. The working time at bpost is basically 7 hours and 36 minutes per day. Given the nature of the activity, with peak and trough moments during the year, this is an average with longer working periods in busy periods and less long in luwe periods. I assume that bpost will comply with the legal provisions on working time. That's how I get to PostNL and the opportunities for growth. The search for new poles of growth and diversification is key to the bpost strategy. This strategy can be implemented either through acquisitions, such as the acquisition of the Belgian activities of the Lagardère group – a transaction still subject to the approval of the competition authorities – or through the development of new products, such as Combo, or through the renewal and permanent adaptation of the offer, such as the distribution of packages on weekends. It is in this context, in order to provide all the development opportunities for public enterprises, that the government has taken the initiative to define the framework within which the participation of public authorities in publicly listed undertakings could, where appropriate, be reduced to less than 50% plus one action. During the debate in this committee, it has already become clear that this does not mean a deterioration in the current status of bpost employees. That is clearly mentioned in the law. This brings me to the dividends and the participation of the staff. Dividends are paid out to the shareholders, including the employees who were able to subscribe to shares at the market entrance at a discount. In the case of staff, there is a participation in profits within the meaning of the 1971 Law on the establishment of bpost, granting 5% of the net profit of bpost to staff. In addition, bpost has a system of variable wages. The non-recurrent bonus is a financial advantage linked to the collective results of bpost, measured on the basis of objective criteria. The collective results refer to the profits of the company, the level of loyalty of the customers, the level of presence at work and participation in profits in accordance with the 1971 law. In 2015, the non-recurrent bonus amounted to 8,8% of the profit for the financial year. Executives cannot get this bonus but they do have a variable wage, fixed as a percentage of their annual wage, where the variable wage actually paid can vary according to the company's results and individual performance. In 2015, this variable wage amounted to 4.4 % of the profit for the financial year. The number of auxiliary postmen at bpost is currently 6 389. Finally, there was a question about round sorting. For the correspondence of normal size, round sorting and sorting by house number and in order of the distribution round, the so-called sequencing, has been fully rolled out. In the case of large-sized consignments, the rolling-out of sorting on rounds is under way. It must be completed by the end of the year. At the same time, there is a pilot project sequencing for the larger formats.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic472x.u9	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your reply. I believe that the workload at bpost should be closely monitored and should be the subject of serious discussions with the management. There must be a dialogue which will enable proper agreements to be reached and a collective agreement to be concluded which meets the expectations of staff and management. The working time of 7 hours and 36 minutes is the standard. In busy periods it will be exceeded, while in less busy periods the staff will work for less time. I believe that flexibility here should be the word of order. I would, however, like to argue that the workload of the postmen should be monitored.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic472x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In the case of dividends, however, I would like to make the following clarification. As you know, I attach great importance to social dialogue. Moreover, the workload is the cost that the company has to pay for the problem of a high turnover and the concept of attraction. I note on the ground that there is a great deal of staffing and that there are difficulties in connecting staff. This is actually an extra cost, because one must always invest in training new staff. Once people know the job, they're gone. A number of companies know the concept of "best employer'. A number of people on the ground tell me that the working conditions are getting too heavy. It is important to pay attention to this, because that is a heavy cost, both for the people and for the company itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic472x.u11	Minister, you have not answered all the questions asked. I take it that you are considering new growth poles. This company is managed as a private company whose aim is to increase its profitability. We feel the impulse of private shareholders. I am not sure that this is appropriate for a society that needs to meet public service needs. I also understand the possibility of going below 50%. You're saying we don't have to make a 50 percent fetish. I'm not. I'm a 100% fetish. We won't agree on that. More fundamentally, this malaise and the strike show the evolution for staff whose salaries are constantly decreasing and whose hard work is constantly increasing. Your silence in this regard is quite eloquent. A UCL study now ranks the trade as a factor among the "heavy professions". The greater the profitability of the company, the greater the length of service for the workers, the smaller the service and the more expensive it becomes for the users. In addition, as a result of the measures taken by the Minister of Pensions, postal workers will have their pensions reduced. In these circumstances, social movements would not be surprising. They won't be the last.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic472x.u12	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, this question was first addressed to your colleague, Deputy Prime Minister Kris Peeters, because it relates in particular to consumer protection. I am reminded that due to the introduction by the Proximus operator of a new interface for their TV service, the old "V3" labeled decoders purchased by some customers between 2008 and 2013 will soon not allow access to all television services. As a result, no fewer than 400,000 decoders may no longer meet the new standards. De facto, this should lead their users to replace them with a more modern tool, in the unique context of a rental contract. This could therefore lead to an increase in the monthly user bill that Test-Achats describes as "a disguised rate increase". This situation is challenging. Of course, an operator is free to modernise its decoders and services. However, should the user pay the price without conditions and in a somewhat forced manner? Deputy Prime Minister, how do you view the facts presented? Have you had the opportunity to have contact with the Proximus operator on this file? Notwithstanding the latter's autonomy of management, do you feel that the rights of users are fully respected? What solutions can be envisaged within the framework of your competences and in accordance with the principle of autonomy of the above-mentioned company? Have there been any consultations on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic472x.u13	Mr President, dear colleague, at the end of 2015, Proximus launched, in its Proximus TV offer, a new TV interface with better image quality, simplified browsing experience, improved speed and ergonomics, integration of new interactive services and a similar experience on all screens. However, some decoders, namely the decoders of the so-called "V3" version, are not compatible with this new offer and do not support the latest technical developments. They therefore need to be replaced so that customers can fully benefit from the Proximus TV product and all its features. I would like to point out that of the 400,000 V3 decoders still in circulation in May 2015, approximately 30,000 had been purchased for 125 euros and serve mostly as second decoder in the house. These decoders are three to six years old. Proximus replaces them for free with new generation devices. The technology is evolving very quickly and Proximus must be able to offer the best service. Today, the operator is no longer able to guarantee a sufficient life of the device to customers so that they can take full advantage of their investment. The rental model avoids these risks since the customer can have his decoder replaced in case of technical concern or technological change. Customers who have purchased a replacement decoder have been individually notified of the possibility of receiving a free rental of the new decoder for 12 months, which amounts to 96 euros. The removal of this purchase option is a commercial decision taken by Proximus in the interest of the customer. As you yourself indicate, I am obliged to respect the autonomy of the management of the company.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic472x.u14	Minister, I take note of your answer and thank you for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic472x.u15	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, according to recent information, 207 bpost offices, i.e. almost a third of the country's postal offices, are expected to open only half of the day from the beginning of September. The media talk about three or four hours of operation a day. This measure, provided for in the annual bpost restructuring plan, would a priori concern only the smallest offices which require the mobilisation of only one person. This draft reform requires clarification. It is imperative that it does not reduce the quality of this public service and that bpost maintain a good level of supply to all citizens. Accessibility to its offices must be preserved. So, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Do you confirm this information and can you tell us more about this restructuring project? How many offices were involved and how were they selected? What opening times will be applied and from when exactly? What will be the consequences of this reform in terms of jobs? Can you assure us that the workstations will be maintained? Finally, in the light of the reduction in opening hours, do you confirm that good accessibility will be guaranteed and that openings outside office hours will always be organised?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic472x.u16	Mr President, Mr Calomne, I can inform you that bpost has made the decision to adapt the opening hours of certain post offices from 5 September 2016 according to the needs of customers and while respecting its commitments in the management contract. This decision is based on the development of recent years. First, post offices are no longer the only access channel to bpost services. Indeed, in recent years bpost has expanded access channels to its services. While customers had to rely only on post offices before, they now have a range of choices: post offices, post offices, stamp shops, Contact Centers, package distributors and internet applications such as e-shop, e-banking, apps, etc. These new access channels are increasingly being used by customers. I have a table showing the figures at your disposal. In 2010, approximately 70 per cent of contacts occurred through post offices. In 2015, they were only 53%. For example, the website used to represent only 15% of contacts; today it has increased to 28.5%. As a result, the number of customer contacts in post offices decreased by 24 per cent in the period 2010-2015. Client behaviour is a second determining factor in this decision. The activities carried out by clients at the bpost counter are monitored on an ongoing basis: the number of contacts, the nature of the operations, the time they take, the average waiting time of the customers before they are served, periods of strong or less influence. In particular, these parameters allow bpost to adapt the opening hours of post offices to the needs of clients. The outcome of this exercise was the subject of a social dialogue and was finally approved by the bpost management committee on 28 June. For 402 of the 662 post offices, nothing changes. In 48 post offices, the opening hours were slightly extended, while in 33 offices, the average reduction was at least two hours per week. In 179 offices, adaptation has a wider scope. These are small offices where it was found that, on average, 46% of the current opening time was not used. This means that in 46% of the time, there was no one to serve at the counters. These 179 offices account for 25 per cent of the network, but only 13 per cent of the activities. Some striking examples: the post office in Oostvleteren, 68% of the time without customer, the post office in Voeren, 66%, the post office in Lens, 62%, the post office in Nassogne, 60%, the post office in Lontzen, 58% of the time without any customer. bpost has decided to reduce opening hours from one to five half-days per week. In conclusion, in 75% of the post office network and 87% of customer contacts, the impact is positive, neutral or slightly negative. Accessibility on Saturdays or outside of office hours increased by 6%. The level of quality of service is maintained, which means that 80% of clients must be served within five minutes. It is mainly the inactive time or off-peak hours that have been targeted. This plan complies with the provisions of the management contract on the proximity, density, accessibility and continuity of the network. This adjustment of opening hours will be carried out without redundancies and with the continuation of the employment system.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic472x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answers. As you said, I think we need to be able to adapt to certain developments. I take note of the statistics rising in e-commerce and the development of products and the acquisition of services via the post website. At the same time, restructuring, or in any case rationalizations and savings, can be carried out in certain places, such as, as you said, in some post offices where, as I noted, 78% of the time, there was no one. There, indeed, there may be a need to better organize things. The current offices are important, but the complementary offers related to the development of new technologies are changing positively. I wanted to thank you for the different data. I also take note that these reforms will be carried out without dismissal. It was also important. Thank you for the various clarifications.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic472x.u18	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Gilles Foret has converted 12584 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic472x.u19	Mrs Isabelle Poncelet will put her question No. 12985.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic472x.u20	Mr President, Minister, on Monday, June 20, bpost launched his new truncated service, an application that allows anyone or almost anyone who wishes to do so to improvise delivery of parcels. For the moment, the experiment is confined to Antwerp, as a pilot project (in any case at the point of withdrawal of the package) and, if successful, will be extended to several cities. This is confirmed by the bpost management. With more than 300 amateur deliverers registered on the first day, it can be seen that this new service is clearly of interest. In a few words, this truncated service proposes to put in contact companies or people who want to ship a property with individuals who wish to round their end of month by becoming delivery on demand. Through a platform system, the supply and demand meet and organize, for a remuneration to the race fixed according, what was announced by bpost, the size, the weight of the package and the distance to travel, accompanied by a commission for bpost. We are in the collaborative economy, and more particularly in an Internet platform, a growing sector. This raises many questions and requires important guidelines. In this regard, you recently introduced a specific tax and social status with the government. We had the opportunity to react last week in plenary on this matter. In our view, this status is incomplete. In concrete terms, according to the management of bpost, there is no question here of cannibalising the activity of the Belgian post office. At the latter level, 126 000 packages are processed on average every day via bpack. According to the bpost management, "bringr is a value-added service, more expensive with a withdrawal at home and not in post office, and a delivery in the day". Minister, with regard to this new project and this evolution from bpost, a public parcel delivery company, to the platform economy, I would like to ask you a number of questions. First of all, does a selection take place at the base regarding the delivery agents registered on the site? What are they presented to them? What specific working conditions are proposed? What information is provided to them? Secondly, the price is determined by the weight and size of the object and the distance to be travelled, but what does it represent in terms of the hourly rate for delivery agents? That is how we can get an idea of the quality of hourly employment. Who manages the application and the web site brindgr? What are the economic and social criteria taken into account in the analysis of the test phase to determine whether the operation will be successful and whether it will be extended to other cities? How will you measure the satisfaction of delivery providers and customers? Will the impact on the turnover of the traditional bpack service be assessed? That seems to me to be a crucial factor. Indeed, if brinchgr is only used to cannibalize the services provided by bpost employees, the objective will be missed. Similarly, there is a risk of an overbidding of working conditions. That would obviously not be acceptable. Finally, did bpost use Belgian or foreign examples to develop this service and application?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic472x.u21	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, on 20 June, bpost launched bringr, an application that allows simple individuals to take over the delivery of parcels, as part of a pilot experiment. Through this digital tool, the offer and the demand meet and organize, for a remuneration at the race fixed according to the weight of the package and the distance to travel, with a commission for bpost. A total of 300 deliverers are said to have already signed up for this project, which is, for the time being, only implemented in the city of Antwerp. Despite its experimental nature, the launch of this service is a positive signal, as it demonstrates the company's willingness to innovate and take advantage of the very promising potential of the collaborative economy, in order to provide better service to customers. However, some trade unions expressed concern about this, denouncing "outsourcing of services". Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to ask you a few questions in addition to those of my colleague. Can you give us more details about the launch of this application from the point of view of its operation, the number of delivery agents expected, but also the geographical scope chosen? What exactly are the arrangements for organizing this pilot project? What are the criteria used to assess the relevance of the continuation and possible expansion of this new tool? Has an agenda already been selected for the evaluation of this project? What is your position on the comments already made by the unions? In the case of bpost commissions, what are the expected financial volumes?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic472x.u22	Mr President, Minister, I am not going to repeat what colleagues have said. Mr Calomne said that some unions disagreed with the measure. They are in fact unanimous against. They point to the lack of social protection – with what this implies, in particular, in the event of accidents – and the lack of certainty for employees about their income. Trade unions find it unacceptable that Europe and Belgium allow work under such conditions. Minister, do you support the introduction of such a precarisation of employment in bpost? For me, this is clearly a precarization. What are the regulations on employee remuneration and prices for consumers? How were they fixed? Management stated that the launch of this platform did not endanger employment within the company. What are the guarantees at this level? If more and more packages are delivered via this system, how can you guarantee that there will be no effect on employment? What is the guarantee in terms of the quality of the delivery service? In the case of the post office, the constitutional secrecy of the letters is also threatened. What guarantee is there that the parcel carrier brindgr will not open the package? Have there ever been complaints about packages that are not or poorly delivered, or that have been damaged? What are the social protections for people who would deliver parcels via truncated? A road accident during a delivery would not be covered by an insurance of the bpost company, but should be covered by the insurance of the motorist. Will any personal injury be considered an occupational accident since there is no contractual link? Has an accident ever occurred during the test phase in Antwerp? What is the profile of those who deliver parcels for twig?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic472x.u23	Mr President, brindgr is a collaborative platform that connects a sender, a consignee and a delivery person for the delivery of a specific good. This solution is more targeted at individuals or businesses for specific small volumes. This platform was launched by bpost as a pilot project, first with the city of Antwerp and, since last week, with the province of Antwerp as a place of abduction for deliveries throughout the country. With brindgr, bpost completes its offer of goods delivery solutions. brindgr is a flexible and easy solution that meets specific needs. It focuses more on small volumes and specific requests, to which existing bpost networks do not respond today. A client with large volumes will never use a service like brindgr that is not suitable for this case. He will use the forces of other networks for this purpose. bringr is therefore complementary to other bpost networks, which will retain their positioning according to the customer's needs and the type of delivery. There is first home delivery for standard shipments at a given address between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m., post offices and Post Points for the choice of deposit and delivery in a nearby location, at extended times, Euro-Sprinters for very urgent deliveries of companies and off-standard formats in Belgium and abroad (more technical intervention). We also have CityDepot, for the storage of goods on the outskirts of cities and their delivery in city centres. bpost is a facilitator and owner of this collaborative platform. brindgr is a first for Belgium, following the example of Postmates and UberRUSH in the United States, Stuart and Colis Voiturage in France, and tiramizoo in Germany. The price is determined by the weight and size of the object to be delivered, as well as the distance to be travelled. This is a transaction between the package sender and the delivery person. The price of the service covers the commission for the use of the platform and a remuneration for the delivery person, which is high enough to cover the driver's costs. The social partners have been widely informed about this pilot project. The bpost management assured that the launch of the collaborative platform for the shipment of goods will not have a negative impact on the employment, salary or status of employees within the company. She explained that this platform was complementary to the existing activity. Deliverers must meet the following conditions: be at least 18 years old, have a valid residence permit in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic472x.u24	Under 18? I'm not surprised anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic472x.u25	I said at least 18 years old. I'll do it again. The conditions are as follows: to be at least 18 years of age; to be provided with a valid residence permit in Belgium; in the case of a legal person, it must be constituted in accordance with the regulations; to be in possession of the necessary licences and permits at the time of service (driver's licence, motor insurance, no revocation of the right to drive, etc.); Deliverers must also adhere to a code of conduct on non-discrimination in terms of race, religion, sex, age, sexual preference, civil status. Given the short period of operation of the platform, a profile of the delivery agents cannot yet be drawn up. So far, there was no mention of an accident. Bringr plays the role of facilitator. The only obligation of bpost as owner concerns the proper functioning of the platform. There is no contractual relationship between bpost, on the one hand, and the sender, consignee or deliverer, on the other hand, and corporate responsibility does not play. The decision whether or not to continue this project will be made on the basis of operational feasibility and sufficient market demand. The financial details of this project are part of the company's confidential information. This is still a good example of a Belgian public enterprise, which takes its future in its own hands instead of undergoing it. This evolution of economic model and technological change will take place in any case. One could wait and complain afterwards or choose to take the future of the company in hand by giving shape to such activities. This is the best guarantee to stay at the forefront of progress and create jobs in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic472x.u26	Minister, thank you for your answers. There are a few things you didn't talk about. The pilot project that has just been launched, I understand that you do not have all the information. You have remained quite vague about social conditions and relations with other bpost services. About your last comment, it is good that a public company can innovate and launch itself into new products, collaboratives or via certain internet platforms. The ecologists do not find this wrong in themselves, on the contrary, but we must not go blindly, without safeguards, with social conditions to the discount. Bringr should not be used for the purpose of having precarious social conditions for delivery agents relative to the factors and employees of bpost. It is the fundamental stumbling block of the whole. If this is part of an innovative, collaborative perspective, with an assured public service and gains distributed to the various actors with clear safeguards, this can be interesting. But if it's to replace Bringr's deliverers with bpost workers and have a cheaper workforce, the goal is completely missed and there is an unacceptable precarization that environmentalists will denounce. Let's be innovative, let's go to these new collaborative models that are very interesting but let's not go without safeguards. For the moment, it is still vague, so I am not completely reassured. A clear, accurate and costed assessment of this service should be made in a few months' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic472x.u27	Minister, in my turn, I thank you for your different answers. As you said in conclusion of your speech, it is good to register in movements. To stop progress or not to be part of economic realities is indeed doomed to failure. It is therefore particularly interesting that a public company such as bpost should be part of this dynamic. You mentioned the examples in the United States, France or Germany. Belgium also has a role to play in this respect in terms of public enterprise. It is also consistent with the various measures you have implemented in the area of collaborative economy. You are particularly at the forefront of this issue, and I can only encourage you to continue in this direction. More specifically with regard to this application, I took note that these were small volumes with specific provisions. This is a complementary offer to the one that exists for traditional deliveries. I also noted that there would be no impact on employment. It is important to recall and support this element. Having already had the debate on the collaborative economy in general, I think that we must trust and see this in terms of complementary offer rather than opposing these two types of economy. Minister, thank you and encourage you to continue along this path. Obviously, as my colleague said earlier, it will also be important to make an evaluation after a few months to see what needs to be improved in this specific case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic472x.u28	Minister, I don't know if you yourself used the term "progress." But in any case, for me, it is not in the direction of progress that we should allow working conditions to be worsened. For me, progress is the improvement of the quality of life of the population. I'm afraid we're going in the opposite direction here. As far as the social partners are concerned, you tell us that they have been informed. You have not deepened their opposition to the measure. You tell us that this has no impact on employment, but I tell you that what is done at the initiative of bpost could be done with bpost workers. We could increase employment, or at least reduce it less quickly than we have done for years, if we gave these tasks to bpost staff. I also see the aberration of uberization. The state will compete itself, since it will grant wage subsidies to compete with the workers of a public company, bpost. Finally, I note the domino effect that this will have on working conditions and pay. It is known that bpost already has extensive experience in all techniques of deterioration of working conditions and reduction of pay (alternative and other factors). For me, this is clearly in line with this line, which aims to tackle working conditions and pay. I find this to be a fairly bad development for the general population.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic472x.u29	Deputy Prime Minister, recently Alain Binet was sentenced to six months' suspended imprisonment for more than 15 days, for insulting the Brussels MP Mahinur Özdemir on Facebook. The court described this as insulting and inciting racial hatred and violence. Of course, we can welcome the fact that the judiciary is taking strong action against the perpetrators of such acts. Racist words flourish in numbers on the web, which requires action to be taken. But tracking down fascists - which is for me a generic term for anti-democrats of all hairs - on the internet is not always easy. The French press recently revealed that many French websites of any kind (sites, blogs, forums) of a fascist nature were hosted abroad, with the aim of barely hiding from the French justice system. In many cases, it is difficult to go back to the authors of the content. However, expatriation is no longer an absolute firewall. The Swiss official of Riposte Laique Suisse, Alain Jean-Mairet, was sentenced in April by the 17th Chamber of the Paris Correctional Court for a violent article against Muslims, a first for the site since his transfer to the other side of the Alps. He appealed. The court held that it was competent since the contested statements were available in France. Minister, these are my questions. It would appear that the European Union has signed an agreement with Facebook and Twitter on this subject. What exactly is this? Are we aware of this phenomenon of expatriation in Belgium as well? Are there any cases of jurisprudence? Is there a problem with the expatriation of websites in other areas? How can we counter him? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic472x.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is a certain limit to my competence on this subject. The regulations on insults, incitement to racial hatred and violence and the punishment of perpetrators are not directly within my purview. The establishment of the competence of the Belgian authorities to deal with such behaviour and judicial cooperation in criminal matters are also not covered. I invite you to consult Mr. Koen Geens, Minister of Justice, and Ms. Sleurs, Secretary of State for the Fight against Poverty, Equal Opportunities, Persons with Disabilities and Science Policy, in charge of the Big Cities and Assistant to the Minister of Finance. I will limit myself to the consequences applicable to my skills. First, in response to your first question, the European Commission is working with companies active in the field of social media to combat incitement to crime or discrimination. In this context, I confirm that the European Union has a code of conduct on illegal online hate speech that US companies such as Google, Microsoft, Twitter and Facebook are committed to respecting. This code of conduct sets out good practices in combating hate speech online. As far as your questions two to four are concerned, my administration is not aware of any cases involving Belgian nationals who have settled abroad or have had their website hosted there with a view to disseminating illegal content, such as those you refer to. Again, I invite you to consult with the Minister of Justice. In relation to your last question, first of all, we should recall the freedom of movement of information society services within the European Union. This freedom is enshrined in Directive 2000/31 on electronic commerce, which has been transposed into Book XII of the Code of Economic Law. Thus, a host established in one Member State is free to offer its services to customers established in other Member States, just as the owner of a website is free to give access to its website to all persons in the territory of the European Economic Area. Belgian authorities confronted with illegal content hosted in another State may, within the limits laid down by the Directive on electronic commerce, obtain blocking of the accessibility of this particular website by seeking judicial cooperation from Internet service providers established in Belgium. This was the lead in The Pirate Bay's copyright case. This solution is used when the perpetrators of the illegal activity or content are not identifiable or are difficult to reach through international judicial cooperation. On a voluntary basis, the collaboration of other intermediaries (hosters, wrestling service providers or domain name registers) may also be sought in order to obtain the inaccessibility of the content at issue. Finally, the obligations of certain Internet intermediaries are intended to contribute to the identification of authors of illegal online content or activities. At European level, Internet intermediaries, i.e. hosting providers, catcher service providers or internet service providers, are required to collaborate with the authorities in identifying the authors of illegal content or activities. In this respect, Article 15(2) of the e-Commerce Directive provides that "Member States may impose an obligation on information society service providers to promptly inform the competent public authorities of alleged unlawful activities by the recipients of their services or of alleged unlawful information that the latter would provide or communicate to the competent authorities, at their request, information identifying the recipients of their services with which they have entered into a hosting agreement".
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic472x.u31	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is true that this is an area that falls within the purview of several ministerial departments. On the other hand, there is a need to work with sensitivity; indeed, while respect for democracy is important, it is also the case with regard to freedom of expression. However, today, social networks like Facebook release some totally unacceptable user comments, even though some of the people behind these comments then regret their comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic472x.u32	Mr President, we have already had several exchanges in this committee on the starting plan for Proximus. I wanted to come back again to see, following the latest announcements in the press, where we were and to take stock with you of the whole of this dossier, which, in our view, seems important. At the end of April, the departure plan for staff aged 58 and over was approved and potentially covers 3,670 employees. According to the terms of the agreement, this plan, known as "pre-pension leave", will be on a voluntary basis and will run for several years. As a reminder, it applies to employees who were at least 55 years of age as of December 31, 2015. The initial candidates will allow at 4/5th time from the age of 58 and will leave the company at the age of 60. Proximus hopes it will enter into force on 1 July. In concrete terms, statutory employees will then receive 75% of their salary up to the legal age of their pension but will lose all benefits such as paid leave and other premiums, excluding their hospital insurance. A little different rules will be applied to contract workers, according to the unions. Proximus is planning to leave 1,300 employees, just under one in three of those targeted, which is expected to significantly reduce its total payroll, which amounts to around one billion euros. At the same time, Proximus announces that it will also be able to "engage new profiles with the specific skills needed to meet the challenges of the ultra-competitive market. These are mainly new talent in areas such as computer security and Big Data. Proximus is expected to attract several hundred new recruits a year in the coming years." That was how their communication on the subject ended. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. Could you clarify the differences in this starting plan between statutory and contractual employees? How many people have applied for the plan to date? In one of your previous responses on this topic, you told me that a government relocation plan had been proposed to all of these experienced people pushed out at Proximus. Is this still applicable and how many Proximus employees will be transferred to the federal government? Finally, how many people in this new profile plan to engage Proximus in the IT security and Big Data sectors? It is of course important that employment and employment of sustainable quality can increase at the level of Proximus, which, as you know, is still a public enterprise today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic472x.u33	Dear colleague, the departure plan for staff aged 58 and over, approved at the end of April, potentially involves 3,670 employees. Under the terms of the agreement, this plan, known as "pre-pension leave", will be applied on a voluntary basis and will run for several years. As a reminder, it applies to employees who were at least 55 years of age as of December 31, 2015. The initial candidates will allow at 4/5th time from the age of 58 and will leave the company at the age of 60. Proximus hopes that it will be able to enter into force on 1 July. In concrete terms, statutory employees will then receive 75% of their salary up to the statutory pension age, but will lose all benefits such as paid leave and other premiums, excluding hospital insurance. A little different rules will be applied to contract workers, according to the unions. Proximus is planning to leave 1,300 employees, slightly less than one in three of those targeted, which is expected to seriously reduce the total wage bill to around 1 billion euros. At the same time, Proximus announces that it will also be able to engage new profiles with specific skills needed to meet the challenges of ultra-competitive markets, explained the operator in a press release. These are mainly new talent in areas such as computer security and Big Data. Proximus is expected to attract several hundred new recruits per year in the coming years. Let me turn to the specific questions. "Can you clarify the differences in the starting plan between statutory and contractual employees?" Proximus ensured that a global offer equivalent to the eligible statutory and contractual members of the plan was offered. The facial difference between 70 per cent of the scale for a statutory person and 75 per cent of the salary for a contractual person is related to the different remuneration structure of these two populations. The replacement income as well as other benefits will be broadly equivalent. The second question concerns the number of persons concerned. 2,172 people per 1,855 full-time equivalents volunteered for the plan. Departures will take place between 2016 and 2020. Proximus works to maximize the employability of its employees. In some cases, when an employee is no longer medically fit or fit, after several attempts to develop skills necessary for the future, or when, within a service, his or her capacity to work is no longer in line with the volume of work, he or she enters a process of retraining that allows him or her to enter a new position at Proximus or another public institution. Workers therefore have the opportunity to choose a job from other public institutions such as Fedasil, eID or Centre 112. In order to implement this possibility, a special external mobility service provides persons undergoing conversion with information on the available functions. Those opting for this option receive a unique bonus of one month's baraemic salary multiplied by the number of years of service at the time of their departure from Proximus and their commitment to another public institution. Since they are statutory persons, this is done only on a voluntary basis. Furthermore, at this stage it is still premature to make concrete figures on the persons concerned. However, I can tell you that since 2004, 436 employees have used this system and 224 of them have been given permanent employment in other institutions. Proximus plans to hire a few hundred new profiles by the end of 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic472x.u34	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your answer. That said, as I have already told you, the possibility of keeping people with some experience in mind even if, unfortunately, their profile no longer corresponds to those sought is a good thing. Indeed, at 55 years of age, one can still bring know-how to his company. I am therefore pleased that the people concerned can join other public institutions or be encouraged to remain active in other sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic472x.u35	Minister, at the beginning of July, the press reported your concern for the development of e-commerce in Belgium. It would appear that most companies active in the Belgian market have a logistics centre outside Belgian territory, especially in the Netherlands. This would be explained, in your opinion, in particular, by the fact that night work in Belgium starts at 8 p.m. whereas in the Netherlands it starts at midnight. Labour costs would also be much lower due in particular to the use of student work. In 2015, your colleague, Minister of Employment Kris Peeters, entrusted the social partners with agreeing on this issue. By the end of the year, employers and trade unions had concluded a framework sectoral agreement for companies in the sector to sign collective labour agreements. To date, however, no TTCs have been signed. According to the trade unions, the absence of a collective agreement is due to the fact that there is no request in the head of the employers concerned, who work with subcontractors in logistics, where the Joint Committee authorizes night work, or who have organised themselves internally via the Joint Logistics Board. Minister, you have put forward the idea of authorizing night work by legislation. So you can answer a few questions. Have you had any contacts with the sector or do you have any specific information that would indicate that the sector is seeking such legislation? Are you planning to propose a bill shortly (and if so, within what time frame) to promote night work in the e-commerce sector? Finally, do you intend to take further steps to encourage the development of this activity in our territory, which and within what time frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic472x.u36	I confirm that I have been in contact with the sector and that it is clearly in demand. I give you a specific example, that of Decathlon. The chain intends to create more or less 100 full-time equivalents over a period of three years and 200 full-time equivalents over a period of ten years through night work. A collective agreement was approved internally at the company and was sent in January 2016 to permanent union members via internal delegates. This agreement remains unsigned despite many volunteers on this subject, in the logistics centre. Decathlon is planning a new logistics centre in Willebroek whose first stone will be laid in September 2016. Here's what they tell me: "We want to stay in Belgium for a long time and we need to be able to work at night to deliver Belgian customers and customers from the Netherlands from Belgium." I read in some of the press that the trade union delegations said that there was no demand. I find such a statement extraterrestrial. There are investments in e-commerce all over Europe. However, it is rather odd that in a country so well placed as Belgium, there is no demand for investment in this area, while growth is so strong. The real reason is that for the time being, the method put forward is that when there is an agreement at company level, it must be approved at sectoral level. What is happening is that it is always an opportunity to force people to come to the table and put on the agenda other demands that often have nothing to do with it. It's used as a lever to put other items on the table. In the face of this practice, Decathlon concluded that there is no point in discussing it. I hope we find a solution. I also see that Comeos, which represents the actors of the big distribution, is moving in the same direction. Its president, Dominique Michel, told the VRT, more or less a month ago: ' It must all be negotiated on the ground between the company and the trade union delegations. It's going very slowly." If agreements are not reached before the end of the summer, I think we will have to go through legislation. I do not understand why sticks are put in the wheels for job creation. It can be seen abroad that it is mainly groups that find it difficult to find sustainable employment that benefit most. This is done in social consultation at company level. In the case of Decathlon, this is a clear request to be able to do so. It's a request from both sides. I feel that when people of good will are placed around the table, good solutions can be found. I hope this will be done as soon as possible. With regard to e-commerce, as you probably know, I have launched with my colleagues Kris Peeters and Willy Borsus a platform for consultation with the sector. This consultation has not been completely completed. I can already give you an update so far. I can announce an action plan that will offer an analysis of what needs to be done. However, it appears that this work took place on two other major issues beyond night work. Firstly, a greater integration of the European market within the framework of the Decisional Single Market, the Commission has just made two interesting proposals concerning cross-border delivery costs for parcels and unjustified geo-blocking. This is clearly in the right direction. It is necessary to go further by simplifying the mechanisms for VAT payments or the transfer of data within the Union. Second element: awareness. E-commerce and mobile commerce are a huge opportunity that will quickly become a danger if we do not seize it. Today, our SMEs are not selling enough online. The figures increased sharply between 2014 and 2015, from 2.4% to 5.2% of turnover according to the SPF Economy but Belgium remains below the European average. More efforts should be made to ensure that our SMEs take the e-commerce route. I took the initiative, with UNIZO, UCM, etc., to make a digital tour which consists of going to as many cities in Belgium to try to explain that doing online transactions for SMEs is not so complicated. We try to motivate them to take charge of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic472x.u37	Minister, thank you for all these answers. As far as night work is concerned, I understand that you have a different view of why no agreement has been signed so far. The current sectoral method at the government level has been to push people to sit around the table. This is the preferred method of achieving win-win agreements between employee representatives and employers' representatives. I also note that if by the end of the summer nothing is done or anything is done, you will take the legislative initiative and we will have the opportunity to discuss it again. As far as the other measures are concerned, I will obviously be very attentive to the action plan that you will propose. The awareness of SMEs is an essential point. But we realize that we're a little below, lagging behind at that level. Yet it is an important pillar. We will return to this, but we will certainly support the actions that will be taken on this issue. For the rest, I imagine that when we return home, we will be able to debate certain initiatives and to express our opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic472x.u38	Minister, I am looking at the entire committee. If the committee members agree, I would like to ask my question from the chair. Then we can finish our work for the morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic472x.u39	Minister, I have recently made an effort to read the annual report. I do that every year. I note a number of elements in that report, sometimes for the better, when the company's strategy or corporate governance rules are reflected. I have made efforts to table the fees received by the members of the Management Board both in 2014 and in 2015 and the performance associated with them. For 2014, the Chairman of the Governing Council received 39 201.36 euros gross. The ordinary members received EUR 19 610,58. In addition, there was a seating fee of EUR 1 637.37 per meeting of one of the different subcommittees. I made a table. I voted EUR 374 006,10 for 14 meetings of the Management Board, 3 meetings of the Strategic Committee, 6 meetings of the Audit Committee and 9 meetings of the remuneration and appointment committee. So we are talking about 32 meetings, which amounts to a meeting cost of more than EUR 10 000. The problem in 2014 was that I could not deduce whether the participants actually participated in the meetings. Therefore, the transparency of the 2015 annual report is much better. It states that the amounts have been slightly increased, namely EUR 39 341.71 for the Chairman of the Management Board, EUR 19 670.92 for the ordinary members and EUR 1 639.62 per meeting. I put those amounts back in a table. I voted EUR 378 686,60 for 11 meetings of the Management Board, 3 meetings of the Strategic Committee, 6 meetings of the Audit Committee, 5 meetings of the remuneration and appointment committee, and this is new 5 meetings of the ad hoc committee. So we are talking about 30 meetings, which is an average meeting cost of EUR 12 000. I honestly admit that I didn't make a comparison with other listed companies, because I didn't think that was my job. I just wanted to take a look at bpost. I also looked at the members who are on the board of directors. There are people who also have functions in other public companies or are CEO of private companies. In itself, it is good that knowledge can be shared. I have no problem with that, because cross-pollination can lead to better results and debates. However, as far as the presence is concerned, I believe that there should be a certain commitment from the members of the Management Board. Maybe people have too many mandates. That may be and that is a valid explanation. However, I wonder what the added value is. For example, I have seen that a member of the Management Board has only participated in three of the 11 meetings of the Board. He also attended only one of the five meetings of the remuneration and appointment committee and five of the six meetings of the strategic committee. If an employee had such a low presence at bpost, he would be dismissed. My personal view is therefore that members of the board should show minimal commitment. If they do not do so, the wager must be withheld or the government, if it is representatives of the government, must have the means to put an end to it. It goes without saying that illness and other matters must lead to change. However, I cannot infer that from the table. I therefore have the following questions, Minister. Are there currently rules at bpost according to which the members of the board of directors are deemed to be at least present? What was the presence of the various members during the various meetings in 2014? You can give me that in a table. Is there any discussion with Members who are rarely present to ask them why they do not attend the meetings? Do you think that the government can make demands on the directors it delegates? How long did the respective meetings last, please split by meeting? You may also give a table. Are there any additional benefits for the members of the Management Board, e.g. staff in preparation for the various meetings? If so, how much and what function do they perform?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic472x.u40	Mr President, we have already responded together to this in an article in today's newspaper. The Corporate Governance Charter of bpost requires members of the respective boards and committees to attend the meetings regularly and personally. The competence profile for the members of the Board of Directors, which is part of the Corporate Governance Charter, also requires directors to spend sufficient time to effectively fulfil their tasks and responsibilities. The presences in 2014 were entirely in line with the presences in 2015. In 2014, they were as follows: For the Management Board: 1 member participated in 10 of the 14 meetings; 2 members to 12 of the 14, 1 member to 11 of the 14, 1 member to 10 of the 12, 1 member to 4 of the 14, 1 member to 9 of the 10, 1 member to 13 of the 14 and the other 8 members participated in all meetings. The total number of meetings differs because some board members were not appointed as board members for the full year 2014. For the audit committee: 1 member participated in 4 of the 6 meetings, 1 to 5 of the 6 meetings, the remaining members participated in all meetings. For the Committee on Renomation and Appointment: 1 member was present at 7 of the 9 meetings, the other members took part in all. For the Strategic Committee, 2 members participated in 1 of the 3 meetings, the other members participated in all meetings. The Corporate Governance Charter of bpost requires that the Board of Directors, under the direction of the Chairman, regularly evaluates its size, composition, performance of its committees and the interaction with executive management. Depending on the situation, the Chair shall propose the necessary measures to remedy certain weaknesses of the Management Board or its Committee. For the attendances in particular, it appears that Members scored well to excellent results with two exceptions. The Management Board shall regularly monitor and evaluate the main issues identified in the evaluation. The requirements of the government for the directors appointed by it are requirements for good governance. For example, the director must act first and foremost in the interests of the company and act independently. One of the most important aspects of adopting a director's mandate is that one has a responsibility. In my view, this responsibility is assumed, of course within the framework of all the tasks that take place, by being present on the board of directors and also taking part in the votes. That is an essential element. I believe that those who are very few on boards of directors clearly do not accept their responsibility in the way they expect a driver to do. That is why I sent a letter to the Chairman of the Management Board asking explicitly to inform me about the evaluation interview with directors who are regularly absent and to call them to order. I know that one of them in the newspaper today says: "I am one of the most active drivers." That's right, activity is one evaluation element. However, the element of responsibility is exercised by being present and by the vote. If there is so little presence, I do not think it is appropriate to fill in the responsibility. The average duration of the meetings of the Management Board and the respective committees is approximately three hours. The exceptions include the annual two-day offsite, which is held with the full Management Board and takes up two days, and the committee meetings, which are convened on an ad hoc basis for specific dossiers. The duration of the latter is on average less than three hours. bpost shall not make any staff available to the members of the Management Board. However, the assistant to the delegated director shall also act as an assistant to the chairman of the Management Board.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-12-54-commissie-ic472x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think our vision is similar. I saw the table and I didn't know a few people. I then Googled Members' profiles and looked at the other mandates they exercise. I read the answer to that in the paper. I share your view that when one is elected, as much as possible one must go to those meetings to make his vote stand. I have been informed that you have sent a letter to the Chairman of the Management Board. I hope that she will organise a meeting with those who are not very present. We'll wait for the outcome of that conversation.
