ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we begin our work. The first item on the agenda is a question from myself and Mr de Lamotte. Since Mr de Lamotte is not yet here, I propose that we move on to the second item on the agenda, Mrs Grovonius's question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u2	Madam President, Minister, you are aware that the European Union is in the process of negotiating with the United States on a highly criticized trade partnership, the TTIP, aimed at establishing a transatlantic market bringing together the economic spaces of the United States and the European Union. Chickens sold in Europe could soon be soaked ex officio in chemical solutions to eliminate bacteria. This Commission proposal follows a request from the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) for Europe to endorse the use of large-scale chemical rinsing in American poultry plants. Is this not already a potential drift likely to be aggravated by the health consequences of TTIP?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u3	Madam Member, thank you for your question. I am fully aware that citizens, professionals, the agricultural sector and SMEs in particular are concerned that the TTIP will lead to a reduction in the level of food security or, more generally, distortions of competition and that this TTIP will endanger our production model. However, the United States and the European Union have been clear about this: TTIP must not change current food security requirements on both sides of the Atlantic. More generally, I must inform you that I am very attentive to the possible consequences of TTIP for our agricultural sector as well as for our SMEs, as I am very aware of the added consequences of the various contracts and commercial treaties that we could pass in the future. As regards chickens in particular, on 26 March 2014 the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) issued an opinion on the use of peracetic acid to reduce pathogens on poultry and meat carcasses. The Commission has taken a regulatory initiative on the basis of this opinion and a draft regulation will still have to be discussed with the representatives of the Member States. This project is not yet available to my services. I believe, of course, that we need to analyse the techniques that can offer additional guarantees to consumers in terms of public health, I say if necessary, but in no case can these techniques replace the good hygiene practices imposed by European legislation and therefore cannot exempt operators from the obligation to comply with our regulatory hygiene requirements. There is therefore absolutely no question of straddling our practices in order to allow an agreement on TTIP, nor of sacrificing any aspect of the agricultural aspect during the negotiations. The Commission's mandate for these and the Belgian position are particularly clear in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u4	Minister, thank you for your answer. I will probably have to ask you again about the position Belgium will take as soon as your services have become aware of the project. More generally, I have heard your views on TTIP, which I think is at least interesting about agriculture and SMEs. Nevertheless, I invite you to discuss this with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, because I am not sure that he is also aware of the risks posed by the ongoing discussions on the Transatlantic Partnership Treaty.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u5	I propose that we postpone the joint questions under point 3, since Mrs Winckel, Mr Gilkinet and Mrs Cassart-Mailleux are not present at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u6	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, does it bother you that I am asking my question while I am acting as chairman of this committee? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you. Mr Minister, UNIZO once again made it clear that a new statute for enterprising students is an opportunity for our country. The red tape and the tax consequences slow young people down to undertake. Research by the self-employed organisation shows that four out of ten young people would like to start their own business. Yet they do not take up this commitment, often because of too many thresholds. The main obstacles are the obligation to pay social contributions and the fact that the students can no longer be liable to tax for the parents. There is a distortion between regular job students and student entrepreneurs if they want to earn a penny. UNIZO has already committed itself to drawing up a statute for students-entrepreneurs. For example, the net taxable income is shifted from EUR 1 439,42 to EUR 6 505,33. In addition, UNIZO does not want a minimum contribution for students who remain below the limit of EUR 13 010.66. UNIZO also advocates simpler rules in order to avoid parents being unable to tax the student or losing their child benefit. We have also tabled a legislative proposal with our party. We discussed, among other things, the raising of the border to EUR 6 742,06. In this way, there will be equal treatment between job students and students-entrepreneurs, without restricting anyone. You agree, Minister. In your policy paper for this parliamentary year, you are also committed to introducing such a statute. You want to provide young people with a framework to stimulate entrepreneurship and creativity. Starters are already having a hard time here. We want to give the Belgian Mark Zuckerbergs a place in our system, don't we? Mr. Secretary, how are your plans? Do you intend to put the findings of UNIZO and our bill side by side?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u7	Mr Minister, I have already asked a number of questions about the status of student-entrepreneur. There was a reflection exercise on the improvements that could be made to the current legislation. There had already been contacts with the Länder and you would submit a number of ideas regarding the contribution rate for the social status to the General Management Committee. However, the most important thing I have remembered is that by February 2016 you would have prepared a proposal on the status of student-entrepreneur. My question dates back to 29 January. UNIZO also made another appeal the week before. Our country has 5 089 students who also have their own company. This is shown by figures from the ADMB Children's Allowance Fund, which UNIZO was able to look at. Preferably four out of ten young people from 16 to 18 are thinking of starting their own business. We can only welcome that. During their studies, some start with their own business, but there are still too many social and financial thresholds that slow down the exercise of an independent student activity. The obligation to pay social contributions and the fact that older students can sometimes no longer be taken into account for tax purposes may constitute a brake. UNIZO therefore calls for a new status of student entrepreneur, with more flexible conditions. We must make the thresholds as low as possible and give them every opportunity to taste entrepreneurship. After their studies they can then fully board as an entrepreneur. UNIZO is working out a concrete proposal that you have probably been able to see for yourself. Is your proposal regarding the status of student-entrepreneur ready in the meantime? If so, can you give us an explanation? If not, why isn't that the case yet? What aspects of the UNIZO proposal have you taken into account?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u8	Mr Minister, the chalk lines have already been signed by my fellow Members with their questions on the same subject. The CD&V Group is particularly concerned about a tie-up between, on the one hand, the status of job students and, on the other hand, the status of student entrepreneur, a statute for which we are also a requesting party. We note that our reasoning is also followed by the universities and colleges of applied for a separate statute. Many colleges and universities already have to deal with students who want to undertake during their studies and take a first step towards entrepreneurship. Some universities have a special status for students who want to gain experience in entrepreneurship in addition to their studies. However, that is not enough. The big pitfall is mainly the fact that a starting entrepreneur is measured and limited in his or her ability during his or her studies, while the status of a job student offers much more opportunities and tax and social benefits. For example, even though entrepreneurship is an activity in addition to studying, the student-entrepreneur is almost obliged to become self-employed and to pay the corresponding social contributions. Moreover, the student is no longer liable to tax the parents and the child benefit is also at risk. All these reasons lead us to argue for a status of student entrepreneur, which is equivalent to the status of the job student, thus retaining certain advantages during the study period and keeping the student entrepreneur tax-paying to the parents. That statute should also ensure that the student entrepreneur is exempt from social contributions if the income does not exceed at least EUR 6 505.33, the amount that is also exempt from a job student. In this way, we create a level playing field, do not introduce a threshold for students who have entrepreneurship and want to engage in it, and we can encourage them. You have announced in your policy paper as well as in the SME plan that you would work on the introduction of a student entrepreneur's statute. This is stated in both your policy paper and the SME plan. You also referred to the ABC report, which would be in preparation. Mr President, what progress has been made on drawing up the new statute for the student entrepreneur? What timing do you have in mind? The ABC issued an opinion on 25 February 2016, with some proposals for the concrete impact. The Statute should be made sufficiently attractive in terms of contributions, social rights and tax treatment of income. Will you use that advice in the concrete elaboration of your texts? The ABC also proposes consultation and exchange of information between different administrations. To what extent has this already happened? Which administrations are involved? I also think it is important to consult with the Communities. I think it's also relevant to the Department of Education. Are you planning a meeting or has it already taken place? How are the contacts going? Have you had a meeting with the Minister of Finance? After all, there are also a number of tax obstacles. How's that going?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u9	It is intended that the status of student-entrepreneur is as attractive as possible and meets the expectations of future entrepreneurs who intend to launch a professional activity or ancillary activity. In order to achieve this, work needs to be done on several fronts. An interesting and innovative contribution system should be introduced; tax treatment should be improved; rights should be safeguarded. The contours of the new statute are already in place. For example, in December 2015, I asked the General Management Committee for the Social Status of the Self-employed (ABC) to give an opinion on proposals concerning the student entrepreneur. As you mentioned, the ABC issued its opinion on 25 February 2016. Since the introduction of the new statute is not my sole responsibility, meetings are planned with my fellow federal ministers. I intend to consult the sub-entities on child benefit after that. It is my wish that the status of student entrepreneur should be introduced before the start of the next academic year in September. My proposal was delivered to the cabinet of the Minister of Finance. In concrete terms, we are working together to explore the possibility of allowing the student entrepreneur, who develops an independent activity in parallel with his studies, to remain at the expense of his parents, while earning professional income up to a higher threshold than is currently fixed. In this context, the harmonization of the tax situation of students-entrepreneurs with those of job students is being studied.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u10	Minister, I hear you've already taken steps. Your wish is to introduce such a statute before the next academic year. Last year I thought I understood that you were already in the process of introducing it as soon as possible. I therefore sincerely hope that your intention can be fulfilled, because it is high time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I see that you have made progress, even though it may not be as fast as we want. You are announcing a proposal and you have the will to let it go before the start of the new academic year. I think that we really must strive for that, so that everyone knows where he or she is going. The whole story also fits into your SME plan with forty points. First, it was agreed that there would be an evaluation every quarter, but we said that every six months would suffice. I am a little disappointed that the SME plan has not yet been evaluated. In our committee, I have already put forward the proposal to carry out this evaluation in April and October, so that there are six months in between each time. So far, no response has been given. I therefore call on you, in consultation with the chairman of the committee, to organise an evaluation every six months.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u12	I am fully at Parliament's disposal to carry out an evaluation in committee. We have taken some measures and I am at my disposal to evaluate them. The date for the discussion can indeed be set with the President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u13	Minister, I think that is a good idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and for your efforts to introduce the Statute. You say you have plans to introduce it by the next academic year 2016-2017. That's very soon. I hope that you will take our concerns into account when drawing up the Staff Regulations in order to safeguard family allowances and the tax burden. I hope to be able to deal with the draft law on this matter shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u15	We now come to Question No 9639 by Mr Calomne.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u16	Madam President, my colleague, Mrs Jadin, has an attached question. She'll be here in two minutes. If this does not disturb the order of business too much, would it be possible for Mr Vanden Burre to ask his question first?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u17	We didn't know. I therefore give the floor first to Mr Vanden Burre.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u18	Minister, on January 1st, the measures relating to the reduction of contributions voted under the tax shift took effect. The most symbolic of these, the exemption from lifetime contributions for the creation of the first job, has also made a lot of talk about it. The latter is aimed at a wide audience, since any private company that hires a first full-time or part-time worker via a CDI is concerned. The government's first job is that the company in question has no longer occupied any worker for at least four consecutive quarters. In addition, the exemption from social contributions relates to basic employer contributions and not to any sectoral special contributions. In this case, I am thinking of contributions to sector-specific security funds, company closure funds, etc. Finally, your various communications mention that ONSS would be finalizing safeguards to avoid possible abuses. Mr Minister, as you know, we voted in favour of these various contribution reduction measures during the debates that took place at the end of last year, while asking you to remain attentive to the potential impact of these measures. That is why I would like to ask you the following questions. What safeguards are envisaged by ONSS to avoid possible abuse of the measure abolishing social security contributions for life? What audits will be conducted by the NSS regarding the companies that will use this measure? In addition to the indefinite nature of the employment contract, is it envisaged to set a minimum period during which the person employed remains in the undertaking in order to benefit from this measure? Let me turn to my attached question. Several companies have felt a sense of discrimination with respect to this provision. I refer here to a press article on 14 January. The press reported that on January 14, you had met some 15 entrepreneurs complaining about the potentially discriminating side of the "zero lifetime contributions" measure of social contributions for the first job. These entrepreneurs denounce possible social dumping: on equal pay and similar activity, two workers will not cost the same price for the one who hired on 3 January of this year compared to the one who hired in November or December of last year. I quote from one of them: "The drop in contributions on the first jobs already existed, but was extinguished after five years. Here, the zero contribution on the first job is for life. By not benefiting from it, because I already employ two workers, I would lose 270,000 euros over my entire career for the next job I would create, compared to my starting competitor." Others highlighted the fact that some of their competitors, particularly in the Horeca and building sectors, could hire their first employee in 2016 with a de facto competitive advantage, which could put them in a very competitive environment. A zeroing of contributions for any new job created in 2016 would have been more equitable, even if the cost would obviously be much higher. Minister, do you still intend to adapt your measure to any new jobs created in 2016? Otherwise, what are you thinking about to rebalance the situation? Do you intend to take specific complementary measures for these sectors of activity (horeca or building) which are particularly affected by the imbalance in the zero-life contribution system? Can you tell us how many jobs were created as of April 1, 2016 with this zero lifetime contribution measure in effect since January 1st?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u19	Mr De Block, on control measures, even if it is my colleague Maggie De Block who has the particular responsibility for this matter, I would like to say how attentive I am to the fact that the measure is being properly applied to those who are the target of it. Under the action of the ONSS in particular, strict control is exercised, as it is today for the reductions during 13 quarters from the first job, for the jobs created in the existing provisions until the end of 2015. In order to avoid cases of fraud, cases of reactivation of an activity or cases of fictitious creation of a legal entity, the legislator shall work on the basis of the concept of a technical operating unit. I do not go into details but if the new entity is simply the transformation, transmission or extension of a pre-existing legal entity or employer, the company is not eligible for the reductions. On the other hand, it is clear that all the implementation of this provision – and I have had many practical questions, including social secretariats – is being monitored very closely by ONSS. I warn those who would like to try to circumvent the law that the provisions in terms of sanction and exclusion are made and will be applied if necessary. With regard to the possible discriminatory provisions, if I had EUR 500 or 750 million, I could without a doubt discuss new measures, including the reduction of social security contributions for any first job created in any company in Belgium. These financial drivers are not of this magnitude, especially since a series of provisions apply to existing companies: the tax shift, with reductions in social contributions from 32.4 to a maximum of 25%, and an important chapter of this tax shift covers existing jobs in existing companies. At the same time, we have doubled the tax deductibility for investments for existing companies. We have reduced social contributions in successive stages by 0.5% for the self-employed and existing jobs, plus a series of other measures on current activities. In addition, in order to take into account those who had just hired, I made a transitional provision for 2015: the person who hired his first worker in 2015 or the second or subsequent worker, will benefit in a limited way in time – that is, for a maximum of thirteen quarters – from the new arrangements. In concrete terms, the person who hired a worker in mid-2015 has two previous quarters of reduction of social contributions and, for the remaining eleven quarters, he will receive zero employer contributions. You are right: your reading of employer's contributions concerns the basic employer's contributions, which are by far the most important. Depending on the sectoral agreements, a series of provisions provide for specific contributions: security of existence funds, payment of paid leave and other such elements. These are not targeted. Moreover, in a number of cases this is simply about the mutualisation of the payment of a social right, e.g. paid leave. There are some in the construction sector, in the agricultural sector as well as in other sectors. We have made a more special effort to encourage those who are not taking the step of the first commitment. I believe that it is 320 to 330,000 self-employed, in person or in company, who must take the step of the commitment. If 10% of them, in the space of 5 years, finally agree to recruit, it's won! There is a difference in treatment between existing companies and these new jobs. But it already existed partially in the past with these thirteen quarters. There is a series of measures for existing jobs and businesses. In addition, control measures are clearly present. Without being too long, I would like to ask you for the specific measures that have been taken for the Horeca: the defiscalisation of overtime up to 300 or 360 hours, the introduction of flexijobs, the possibility of having more occasional work. For the construction sector, we have a series of provisions to combat social dumping, but also the will to take measures for this specific sector, which is confronted with the other problem of social dumping, which I will elaborate on in a future question. Our goal is to have a system that will increase the overall volume of employment, live the activity, expand it and be simple. There is no condition, we did not want to target people of varying age, unemployed or not unemployed. Our aim is to boost the labour market, knowing that activity calls for and leads to activity. These measures can be combined with regional measures. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the question I have just asked gives me the opportunity to make a solemn appeal: go ahead! Never before, Mr Pivin, there have been so many measures in favour of engagement, SMEs and the self-employed. I am particularly interested in the latest report from the Walloon Union of Enterprises. There's something I didn't take on, nor you either. Whatever the good will of everyone, no one can influence the state of mind, the will, the atmosphere, the envy. As I keep saying, the measures exist, the reductions exist, the Regions are also working on the issue. Let's not look at what's in the neighbor's plate, let's go ahead, there's something for everyone! There is a question of creating jobs for men and women.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u20	First of all, thank you for this enthusiasm for promoting entrepreneurship and increasing job creation. This is a concern that we all share, in any case among environmentalists, especially for SMEs and the self-employed. We will follow your voluntarism and you know how regularly we follow the files. I would like to make two specific points. I like your phrase "if I had 500 million euros available, I would make the first job for everyone without contributions". That was in your answer, I noted. We have avenues for budgetary solutions to free up such an amount. In fact, we would be willing to discuss with you in order to generalize the measure. I am thinking, in particular, of the downsizing of notional interests. This could be used to lower corporate taxes for SMEs in particular. If you can convince your government colleagues, we could move forward together on this issue. These proposals are included in our list of proposals for SMEs and self-employed. I want to say, "Dose!" Let us have the courage to cut taxes for SMEs by flattening notional interests. It is not 500 million euros that we would release, but many billions. Don't hesitate! Thank you for your complete answers to all our other concerns. Your wish is to make it simple and I can understand it. The lack of targeting and total linearity seem to us to be likely to lead to certain off-the-shelf effects. That was the subject of my question. The important thing is that the number of jobs is increasing, but also that the measures ensure fairness and equity. With the best intentions in the world, some measures have imbalances. Everyone wants to avoid it, that was the purpose of the question. We will continue to pay attention to the number of jobs created through these measures. Let's hope they're on the rendezvous. You can do more and better by deploying the necessary budgetary means.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u21	I realize that I did not answer your question on the figures. It's a little early because I'd like to have the March 31 figures. I have meetings scheduled for the end of April. I will then give you these figures, in full transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u22	Minister, the news has changed since my question was tabled, but you expressed a few weeks ago your intention to continue the fight against social dumping which affects our businesses and which is detrimental to the growth and jobs we need so much. The government's objectives are ambitious and your approach is proactive, as a 40% reduction in this practice is targeted within two years. I fully agree with these commitments, as it is clear that, today, dumping continues to spread in sectors as varied as construction – my colleague Jadin will have the opportunity to return – transport or help people. What measures have you already taken to combat the phenomenon of social dumping? Can you tell us more about it? How are you going to mobilise social controllers? Are new means and commitments foreseen? If so, what is the deadline? Finally, what are the possible consultations envisaged to carry out the fight at European level? Thank you already for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u23	Madam President, I shall confine myself to completing the presentation by my colleague, Mr Calomne. Mr Minister, I had already introduced my question at the end of February before the presentation of your plan to combat social dumping, which I welcome in the same way as Mr Calomne. By 2018, you plan to gradually extend the registration requirement for all workers employed on a construction site to all existing construction sites. You also announced the recruitment of staff to strengthen field controls. Therefore, have you already planned a detailed timetable for the various stages of implementation of this measure? Do you already have an idea of the number of personnel that would need to be recruited and the time frame within which these new recruits can be operational?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u24	Colleagues, this is one of my great projects, even though it also concerns my colleagues Bart Tommelein, Kris Peeters for employment and others. As far as public procurement is concerned, it is the Prime Minister. I have publicly indicated that I am aiming to reduce social dumping by 40% within two years. You're right, the plague is considerable. I illustrate it with a single number. We have in Belgium a percentage of workers posted inward, which is 3.6% of the working population. The European average is 0.7%. In this average, there are countries that detach. Even if I withdraw this situation from a number of countries, I usually say that we are, on average, more than twice as affected by social dumping as the countries around us. Since the European rules are the same, there is no reason to do so. We are following Marianne Thyssen's European work and the announcements she recently made. We know that the legislative processes and the limits of decisions taken at European level will take us far enough in time. They will be a partial response to the problems we face. We call for certain tools to be made available at European level concerning statistics, compliance with legislation in countries of origin and other elements that would enable our services to work. I am very concrete in answering your question. Mr. de Lamotte, she's not from the firm. I have a very warm answer to convey to you. She's out of the budget conclave. About 100 people (107) will be engaged in the fight against social dumping in the various services concerned with a supplementary plan for the organisation of services and their coordination. This will target the SIRS but also INASTI, ONSS. The aim is to be extremely offensive because it is useless to decide on measures if we do not have the capacity to enforce them. On the other hand, regardless of this hundred short-term commitments - the government's mandate is very strict - there are a whole series of provisions included in the plan for fair competition in the construction sector which are applicable or which will be applied in the short term. These provisions include the compulsory identification on construction sites with the "Construbadge" and the prior registration of the presence on construction sites since 1 March for the 500 000 euros construction sites. Registration of site presence is mandatory. This ceiling will be lowered again on 1 January 2017 and 1 January 2018; at that time, it will apply to all construction sites, regardless of the amount. The threshold for 1 January 2017 will be set very soon in consultation with the federations and stakeholders concerned. We have also taken a series of decisions: strengthening and simplifying the procedure for combating fictitious affiliations. From now on, a uniform model of certification of social insurance funds has been put in place and there is direct communication with the municipal services concerned. Administrative fines for fictitious affiliation have been doubled. It is now necessary to have actually paid its first contributions in order to be eligible for access to health care. Previously, one could simply register without paying anything and be covered until the end of the second following year in terms of health care. There are still a number of other examples, but I may exceed the time allotted. I would like to be at your disposal as well as that of the whole committee, the scoreboard for all the measures taken or to come. I would also like to point out that, at the same time, as you know, our Parliament has been working in the Finance Committee on the adoption of the new law on public procurement, which will be adopted in committee at the next sitting, and that on behalf of the Prime Minister, I will defend the transposition of the directive on concessions, which will also be on the committee's agenda. The Public Procurement Committee is also at work. It brings together sectors and federated entities and works on a series of more direct measures taken by colleagues. I can tell you that with the strengthening of services, the message given at European level, the new legal provisions, the law on public procurement and a whole series of adaptations of regulatory and control mechanisms, we have more than ever really begun the battle and will deliver it to the end, as in the fight against tax fraud, but here we are talking about social dumping. I solemnly say this in this committee, on behalf of the government. Not that we ostracize or disrespect anyone. That's not at all. We simply want everyone to work under normal and balanced competition rules. This concerns construction, maintenance, safety, assistance to people and still a whole series of growing sectors. If we do not do this, we are depriving our social security of a whole part of its resources and we are depriving ourselves of thousands of jobs, which would be unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u25	Minister, thank you for your enthusiasm and for the various information you have just given us. These demonstrate that, beyond voluntary intentions, concrete actions are taking place. I will only point out the example of the 107 people who are going to be hired, but it must be noted that staff are present to take on these policies and that is encouraging. We can therefore only invite you to continue in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u26	Minister, we know that this is a major issue, both in terms of the fact that there is a diversity of responsibilities within our government, and in terms of the "main ills". I am using quotes here because I still consider that the free movement of people in Europe is a very important point, a fundamental value that we must maintain at all costs. However, it is true that within the framework of the Detachment Directive, we have found that it involves perverse effects which you intend to fight fiercely. I want to reassure Mr de Lamotte here. If we ask these questions, we fight these effects with the same intensity. Our minister, however, struggles so vigorously that we can only join in this enthusiasm and contribute to the implementation of all the provisions recommended.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u27	Mr President, Minister, I no longer intended to ask that question, since the legislative proposal has already been voted on. Since you had an answer to it, I'd be happy to give it to you. During an informal consultation on the various legislative proposals on opening hours, it appeared that you were developing a draft law on opening hours, despite the various legislative proposals already on the table. Is that right? Are you still working on that? What are your plans for this design and what direction does it take? Do you still keep in mind the legislative proposals before us? I'm curious to hear the answer you've already prepared.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u28	Thank you, Mrs Vanheste, for this very interesting question on a very interesting subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u29	Mr President, this subject has already been dealt with in this Chamber in the course of a previous committee which referred to this issue in part in the sense that the problem of opening hours in seaside resorts and tourist centres has been analysed. But other areas could indeed be raised, since everyone will remember that there were other bills on the table. Minister, the reform of the law of 10 November 2006 on opening hours in commerce, crafts and services has been under discussion in the Committee on the Economy for several months. Many opinions were requested and hearings were conducted. However, we temporarily stopped our work because a bill was in preparation. At the time, Mrs Cassart mentioned it in this committee. And during the discussion on 24 November 2015 on the general policy note, you said that you would submit "in the near future a text - currently at the intercabinets stage - containing a number of recent proposals, particularly with regard to tourist centres, and providing for some measures to simplify the opening hours regime. This text will be intended to be discussed and amended if necessary, and the Minister undertakes to transmit it to the members of the commission in the near future." I would also remind you that there have been references to texts concerning, inter alia, the opening of night shops, which posed a number of difficulties, and that the aim was, inter alia, to give municipal officials effective tools to be able to intervene, if necessary, against them. In view of the proposals on the table, some of which have already been adopted by Parliament, and your general policy statement, my questions are as follows: Where are you at now? Will there be anything else? Is a draft bill in the process of inter-cabinet negotiations? Are you moving forward on other themes? When can we dispose of the bill, which you committed yourself at the time to convey to us "incessantly"?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this question which presents some topical elements. As you know, the talks at government level did not lead to an agreement on a draft law that could be submitted to Parliament. Given the current state of play, the draft law, as discussed in the government, will not currently be submitted to Parliament. I do not rule out the possibility of a new draft being submitted to this legislature. The law adopted by the House on 17 March will enter into force. It has just received Royal Assent, will be forwarded to the Minister of Justice and will be published as soon as possible. I am well aware that part of the objective has not been met at this stage, but I must be humble, honourable Members: I have not yet managed to reach a consensus on the proposals on this second part.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u31	Mr Klaps will be pleased with this answer, I think. Thank you for explaining this. I just want to say once again that this was a very strange situation at the informal meeting. The tension between the MPs of MR and N-VA was to cut. We didn't know what was happening. It kind of caught us off guard. That actually made me curious, hence the question of what was going on. The question dates back to November and many answers have already been given.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u32	Was that a question to me or to the Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u33	No, that was an announcement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u34	Not relevant
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u35	Minister, I understand that there is a blockage at the government level to move forward on a number of things. Do I have to understand that you are going back to the parliament to deal with this missing part of the puzzle and that we have a coherent assembly that also allows the mayors to respond satisfactorily to the "neighbourhood troubles" that some shops produce in the communes?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u36	Minister, on December 21, 2015, an agreement was reached with the representative organisations members of the chain consultation to provide emergency assistance to the pig sector. The objective is to raise EUR 15 million in 12 months, according to a calculation basis of EUR 0.15 taken per kilo of fresh pigmeat marketed in Belgium. A first part of pre-financing, amounting to EUR 7.5 million, has already been held in mid-January. This is a crucial first step for the sector, which is doing worse every day. However, this agreement can only be implemented following the green light of the Belgian and European competition authorities. On 13 January, your spokesperson stated: "The Belgian Competition Authority will transmit its note to the European authority. We hope for an answer as soon as possible." In addition, it is necessary to take additional structural measures as you stated in the plenary session on 7 January 2016. Indeed, the pig sector must be supported at best at all levels of power. My questions are therefore: have you received the agreement of the Belgian and European competition authorities? If not, when is the delivery of their decisions scheduled? Have there been any ongoing discussions on structural measures to assist the sector? What are the progress already made? What are the deadlines? Has there been any consultation with the Regions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u37	On 21 December, with the help of the Chief of Staff of Kris Peeters, we were able, after eight hours of discussions, to obtain an agreement with the partners of the chain concertation concerning the pig sector. The objective was to raise EUR 15 million in 12 months, based on a calculation of EUR 0.15 per kilo of meat. The Federation of Butchers and Charcutiers also agreed in this regard. The whole agreement, including its financing, must have obtained the agreement of the Belgian Competition Authority after consultation with the European authorities in order to be able to enter into force. The Belgian Competition Authority delivered a favourable opinion on the agreement after consulting the European authorities. This opinion is currently being analysed by the lawyers appointed by Comeos who wish to have all the guarantees regarding the implementation of this agreement, notwithstanding the green light of the Belgian Competition Authority. Contacts are held with Comeos and the Belgian Competition Authority in order to clarify the latter replies which, notwithstanding this green light, some of the partners in the chain consultation wished to obtain. As is well known, this agreement also provides for structural measures which must be requested from the sector and on which support from the SPF Economy has been guaranteed. At European level, I continue my tireless efforts to open up markets, on the one hand to large exports and on the other hand to contribute to the lifting of the health embargo imposed by the Russian authorities. In this regard, I have had a conversation with the Chinese authorities recently. We have identified a number of other potential markets where particular contact efforts can be made. I met yesterday in Luxembourg the Austrian Minister of Agriculture, who returned from Moscow, who had an interview with the Russian Minister of Agriculture on the elements for lifting the health embargo. I had a number of conversations at the Agriculture Council in Luxembourg and heard a report from European Commissioner Phil Hogan on the strategy for the gradual lifting of the health embargo. The argument that I am defending, together with a number of interlocutors in the sector, is that the health embargo should be lifted by region in Europe, by group of countries and gradually, provided, of course, that the Russian authorities adhere to this scheme. In addition, I draw attention to the fact that other markets often have a critical attitude towards certain trade agreements. For example, the Mexican market has just opened up to pig production in several European countries. As you see, whether it is at Belgian level in chain consultation, at European level, at international level in promoting our products within the limits of my powers or as regards the lifting of the health embargo, I do not spare my efforts. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the increase in de minimis aid from EUR 15 000 for three years previously to now EUR 15 000 per farmer without a national ceiling, the latest decision of the European Commission, also makes it possible to envisage additional financial resources for the sector. Finally, consultation with the Regions on this subject is ongoing in the light of the respective competences. I also wanted an extraordinary interministerial conference to be held on 25 February, which was the case, in order to finalize the Belgian position transmitted to the European Commission. As you can see, whether it's in this case of pork or beef, fruit and vegetables or milk, I'm doing everything I can to try to help our farmers who need it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I hope that the trade lawyers will agree as soon as possible to support the sector. I have noted that, when you were talking about structural measures, you insisted on structural health measures with Russia. I think there were other structural measures, and you did not mention them very much. I will therefore allow myself to return to the subject. In addition to the progress made in this structural measure and the deadlines, I have heard that there is a consultation with the Regions on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u39	Mr Minister, I come back to an old arrangement set up by the Dehaene Government, which introduced three social contributions with the Global Plan. Employees have paid a special social security contribution annually since 1995, pensioners pay a solidarity contribution and self-employed persons in primary and secondary occupations pay a higher social security contribution. The special social security contribution shall be calculated on full family income. If a spouse is an employed person and the other selfemployed person, the Law of 30 March 1994 laying down social provisions provides that the amount of the contribution calculated shall not only be reduced by deductions from the salary of the spouse who is a worker, but also by the supplement to social security contributions paid by the spouse who is a selfemployed person. I refer to Article 110 (1) of the Act and the answer to written question No. 113 of Hugo Olaerts of 10 October 1995. It is clear that the Global Plan requires both the self-employed in primary and secondary occupations to pay a higher contribution and that this supplement must be deducted from the special social security contribution calculated on full family income. To this end, the National Institute for Social Insurance of the Self-employed must annually inform the FPS Finance of the supplementary amount. Several fiscalists and tax consultants tell me that this set-off would not happen anymore in the case of self-employed persons in the secondary profession. I therefore have a two-fold question. Does the RSVZ receive annually from the social security funds the breakdown of social contributions for the self-employed in the secondary occupation? Secondly, does the RSVZ still share the supplement to social contributions for the self-employed in the main and secondary professions with the FPS Finances?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u40	Mr Klaps, pursuant to the Law of 30 March 1994 laying down social provisions, published in the Belgian Official Journal of 31 March 1998, the RSVZ is obliged to provide the Ministry of Finance annually with a number of information to allow the administration of personal income tax, in application of Article 108 of that Law, to determine the contribution due at the family level. In particular, Article 125 (1) of that law provides that a list must be provided containing the identity details of the persons liable for a supplementary amount as a result of the amendment referred to in Article 116 of that law, as well as the correct amount of this supplement. This is the net contribution supplement without administrative costs. This data has been provided annually by all social security funds since 1995, collected by the RSVZ and forwarded to the Crossroads Bank of Social Security by 15 March at the latest. The latter in turn forwards this information to the FPS Finance by electronic means. The details of the supplement, referred to in the corridors as the A008-List, refer to all self-employed persons. There is therefore no distinction here between main or secondary professions, retired or exempt because of illness, etc. In recent years this has been the following numbers. In 2015, sent to the KSZ in February 2016: 1 067 700 persons. In 2014: 1 032 000 persons. In 2013: 1 017 000 persons. I have to respond positively to both questions put by Mr Klaps, but with the nuance that communication with the FPS Finance does not take place directly. The Crossroads Bank of Social Security is responsible for the further handling and dissemination of the data communicated by the RSVZ.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u41	I must therefore continue to look at the claims of the fiscalists that the set-off would not happen again. I will continue my research with your fellow ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u42	We are trying to reach Mrs Fonck by phone to ask her question under item 12 of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u43	Madam President, Minister, the Brussels economy is not only important to the Brussels people. This concerns us all. Proof of this, even in the East, we're interested in it. My question is already a few weeks old and you have already been able to give some answers. So I'll try to shorten it a little. The level 4 alert week last November in Brussels has had serious financial consequences for many traders. Indeed, the federations representing the commercial sector estimated the losses to be more than 70 million euros. For example, the representatives of the sector called for the establishment of a precise procedure according to the level of alert for all shops and the creation of a secure online communication system for traders, which could be used by the authorities in case of urgent communication. At the same time, traders would like to see a change in privacy legislation, which, in their view, would hinder the security of their establishment. Thus, in the grievances raised, there is, for example, a ban on systematic search at entrances or a ban on the installation of surveillance cameras filming the immediate vicinity of stores. Minister, as I said, my question is dated February 17, 2016, well before the events that we have experienced. For this reason, I have allowed myself to change it somewhat. What were the results of your meeting with trade representative federations? Finally, in a more comprehensive way, even though I know that you have already had the opportunity to respond, I would like to analyse the main axes you propose to improve safety in the future, also for all commercial areas in the Region?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u44	Mr Minister, my first question concerns the impact of the introduction of Level 4 in the week of 18-25 November and the cancellation of the fireworks on commercial activities in the centre of Brussels. Since then, figures have been provided. According to the FEB, for the fourth quarter of 2015, the addition would amount to €352 million throughout the country, half of which will be borne by Brussels. The main sectors affected are horeca, trade, air transportation and events. Several avenues of support had been explored, and I will mention two. Comeos, the federation of distribution, had made requests concerning economic unemployment for the days of forced closure and the postponement of contributions and VAT. It seems to me that this has been partly put in place. However, the sector wanted additional measures. What initiatives do you intend to take in this regard, since we realize that those taken are insufficient? My second question is more current, since it relates to the colossal consequences of the attacks of March 22nd for the Brussels hotel sector. As a result, bookings would have dropped by more than 50 per cent. You can imagine the considerable impact that this represents. In addition, this sector employs some 12 000 people in the Brussels Region, a figure which has continued to grow in recent years. It is therefore a major provider of jobs in a region where the unemployment rate is known to be too high. The sector had put forward some ideas that could make it more easily through the crisis. He proposed, for example, temporarily facilitating economic unemployment for employees and suspending the tourism tax. At the time of the announcement of the last budgetary control, which has just taken place, suggestions were made for the carry-over of charges. The government was going to "propose to companies to postpone professional prepayments and social contributions in order to provide liquidity and avoid directly bearing the cost of the crisis". Therefore, Minister, what are the measures envisaged by the government? In which sectors and within what time frames? With regard to the carry-over of the social contributions and the employer's charges announced, what types of enterprises will be entitled to do so? Under what criteria and for how long? Finally, what about the demand of the hotel sector to facilitate temporary economic unemployment of employees? Do you intend to get involved in this matter? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u45	Mr Minister, I am not going to expand either, as my colleagues have already mentioned many of the elements. Following the tragic attacks in Brussels on 22 March, many hotels in the Brussels Region are in a very difficult situation, due to the numerous cancellations that followed, as well as the absence of new bookings. According to the Secretary General of the Brussels Hotels Association, the occupancy rate in Brussels hotels fell by 50% in the week following the attacks, with an average occupancy rate of only 18% on the latter date. Traders saw a 50% drop in sales in the days following the attacks. The consequences for economic actors are likely to be heavy, with a significant loss of turnover and the risk of having to separate from part of the staff. For example, the hotel sector represents as many as 12,000 workers and their jobs can therefore be threatened. In addition, the lockdown of November 2015, which is essential to ensure the safety of citizens, had already resulted in a decline in attendance in the Horeca and in the shops. As such, at that time, you had put in place a series of measures to support the self-employed. Although a number of things have already been published following last weekend's conclave, I would like to know whether you could give us details here and, as colleagues have asked, give details of the deadlines for the implementation of the measures envisaged and their destination.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, the situation we are experiencing is extremely difficult and delicate. I stress that the human aspect of tragedy is the major element of this situation, but that does not detract from the priority that must be given to the economic, social and all-encompassing consequences of these events. You have included in your questions the lockdown at the end of 2015 and the tragic consequences of the events of 22nd March. With regard to the consequences of the lockdown, the SPF Economy carried out a series of rather sophisticated studies by examining 25 sub-sectors of the Brussels-Capital Region with a simulation of the consequences for each of them. For example, fourth quarter turnover in hotels fell by 11.8% and 16.6% in non-specialised retail trade. It was obviously before the recent events. With regard to the follow-up, allow me to take stock of the situation. First, the government decided, given the magnitude of the consequences, to set up a task force composed of the Kern ministers and the ministers concerned by the sectors affected by the consequences of the attacks. This task force, of which I am a member, will, in the very short term, meet a number of representatives of the sectors in Brussels and beyond. Secondly, the provisions already in force concern the self-employed. I have recognised as sectors in crisis those of trade and horeca in Brussels and Zaventem to allow the self-employed concerned to adapt the amounts of their contributions more easily. In concrete terms, the current rules allow social contributions to be adapted to the year's presumed income, but it must be demonstrated why these contributions will be lower. By introducing the prior recognition of sectors or regions in crisis, I have facilitated this possibility of reducing contributions and all that remains is to show that we are in the sphere of activity concerned. I also wanted the files to be dealt with very quickly and very broadly, in whole packages, so that people would know the decision that concerns them for the next due date. I immediately sent an instruction to the caisses. Regardless of this measure, the contributions that still have to be paid have been adjusted. For the lockdown or for the current situation, I have authorized the deferral of payment by one year, without any additional charges or charges of any kind. This is a carry-over and the contributions will be due at the end of this year, but in order to deal with the cash flow situation, it seemed to me important to do so. On the initiative of Kris Peeters, provisions concerning unemployment in cases of force majeure, which concern both the workers' and employees' systems, are now in force. I really draw your attention to a very precise instruction in this case from the ONSS which can be communicated to you. It provides for unemployment in cases of force majeure. It is not economic unemployment; it is a particular specificity. Currently and until the end of April, but the situation will be reassessed at that time, these provisions are applicable. The ONSS instruction can be passed on to the commission, so you will be fully informed. The same will apply to the special provisions on VAT and other charges, the details of which are not yet known to me. When the Task Force has conducted all its consultations next week, it will make a comprehensive proposal. Once the situation is restored, which is the priority - it is hoped in the very short term, but I will not comment on the judicial aspect or that of the maintenance of public order which is not within my competence - there will still be work to be done on burden reduction and economic support for the sectors concerned. At the time of the task force, the government's will is not exclusive to certain sectors. There are consequences of the situation in Zaventem, indirect consequences, as witnessed by testimony. Trade, taxis, horeca and other sectors are directly or indirectly affected. We will define the scope of impact very precisely. There is still work to be done, and the idea is to do so in full consultation with the regional authorities in order to restore the image of Brussels. Following a number of very recent reports and articles, such as the New York Times two days ago, which Françoise Schepmans quoted, and other articles, work is needed to restore the image. Yesterday I met the Brussels Horeca and various sectors. I was told, segment by segment, how much the impact was being felt, whether it was business, tourism or other areas. This work on the image should therefore be carried out using new communication technologies or other provisions. For example, even before 22 March, the Chinese authorities celebrated the Chinese New Year in Brussels with the presence of Chinese television, activities on and around the Grand Place. There was a live broadcast in China, with an interview with the Chinese ambassador. This type of report has a considerable impact. It was obviously before the events. All efforts in media terms, international presence and other arrangements must be made to restore our image. I will not express myself on this subject, but other dossiers add difficulties: mobility dossiers, tunnels, and others do not simplify things. I will not say any more, not wishing to depart from my usual courtesy. So you see that we are fully mobilized: the Kern, the conclusions of the conclave, the task force, each in its own skills. The work on the image must be done in connection with the Region and the local authorities. The action plan will be finalized in the next few days under the authority of Kern.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u47	I thank the minister for his reply, as a very comprehensive and detailed custom.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answers on a crucial subject given the tragic events in Brussels. The economic reality is that the Region will unfortunately suffer structurally. I would like to return to two points. The first is the structural nature of the measures. We have short-term measures, which is normal, but we will also have to take structural measures. Among the tasks of the task force, I hope you will propose more structural things in the medium to long term. It is known that what strikes Brussels Horeca cannot be solved by means of measurements at a few weeks or months. I hear the allusion that you make, smile at the corner, to the other Brussels problems, managed by the Region, where your party is not in power. But I call for the coordination of all Brussels forces. That's the second thing. I think that here we cannot play the small political game of the federal which says black, of the regional which says white, of the Brussels communes which would say something else. I think we need a sacred union around the Region, around its image, around all its living forces. Here, we really need to go beyond the traditional political games. This will be the only way to achieve the end of this very important task, not only for the Region, but also for the whole country, as we know the impact of the Brussels economy on the whole country. Finally, as announced by Mr Peeters a few months ago in the Committee on the Economy, I can only encourage you to work with the Region, visit.brussels, the BECI,... and all Brussels organisations, in order to restore the image of Brussels. A campaign involving structural means is more than necessary, more than this press conference of a few hours. Unfortunately, it has not had as many repercussions as we could have hoped. In the end, I encourage you to allocate financial and human resources in this area because the situation requires it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u49	Thank you to the minister for that clarification. I encourage you to continue in this direction, because even if Brussels is not the only one concerned, it is essentially there that the disaster is causing. The fact that the horeca sector and the commercial sector in general are particularly affected is an indirect consequence of these attacks. As a public authority and a political leader, we must be able to find solutions to this problem by providing appropriate support.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u50	Madam Chair, Minister, the 2006 Act to Combat False Self-Employed Persons was strengthened in August 2012. For example, the number of criteria has increased in six sectors (care, construction, agriculture and horticulture, buses and coaches, road transport and taxis). There are nine of them. It is then necessary to meet at least five out of nine criteria in order for an activity to be considered to be carried out by an independent person. Faced with the difficulty of functioning of the Ruling Commission, you, together with Mr Peeters, asked for an evaluation of the 2012 law by the Higher Council of Independents and SMEs (CSI-SME) the National Labour Council (CNT) and the General Management Committee for the Social Status of Self-Employed Workers. The three organizations share the same view: these criteria have not reduced abuse in risk areas. Minister, you have considered the option of returning to the 2006 Act. It is also a preferred option for other players, such as the Union des Classes Moyennes (UCM). Is this option on the agenda? Is it necessary to consult other actors in the sector before taking a decision on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u51	Mr Friart, the fight against fictitious associates, also called "false self-employed", is indeed part of my work priorities as well as the fight against false statutes, of self-employed persons in general, of employees or of other elements which induce unfair competition between economic actors. From the opinions given, it appears that the opinions of the Information and Social Research Service (SIRS) and the ABC, which have independent organisations, are both in line with the fact that the law as it is now in force is impracticable and therefore the need for a revision of it. As you have noted, the NTC and the CSI-SME are of a more nuanced opinion, but they agree to see the difficulties encountered. That is why, in my view, it is essential to return to greater clarity which can guarantee effectiveness but above all a real applicability of the law. The revision of the Labour Relations Act seems to me necessary in order to be able to obtain a pragmatic application in the field, since the social inspection services participating in the Information and Social Research Service have also found the impracticability of the current provisions. Of course, a wide range of consultations must be conducted and discussions must take place within the government team. However, my will is to return to the four basic legal criteria and to address the issue of abuse elsewhere. These criteria will allow for more effective controls in my view. As a reminder, it is the will of the parties as expressed in their convention, the freedom of the worker to organize his working time, the freedom to organize work and the possibility of exercising hierarchical control. For your information, in 2014, 805 people were regularized. They were, in fact, declared independent, whereas in practice they had to be regarded as wage earners. My analysis is that the phenomenon is much wider. In the field, social inspections are called upon to ensure better coordination between them in order to cover more broadly the risk areas in particular. More specifically, an INASTI-ONSS consultation platform has the task of jointly reviewing a selection of files of false qualifications of work services, refining the selection criteria in questionable cases, in particular through the use and cross-checking of databases, the systematization of their transmission for monitoring in the field. As far as social dumping is concerned, it is expressed in various forms. I am also busy browsing French literature about what is happening in our neighbours. Social dumping is manifested in a series of fraudulent practices (this is not the strict application of posting or other European legislation) by violating the rules on posting workers, practices of non-compliance with a series of laws or non-payment or partial payment of social contributions in the country of origin. This leads to unfair competition and circumvention of rules. These companies use a number of mechanisms, sometimes combinations of mechanisms between sister companies, a company established abroad, acting mechanisms combined with secondment and many other creative constructions and, in a number of cases, outside the legal and non-respective framework. As I pointed out to your colleagues a few moments ago, in order to tackle this problem in detail, during the very recent budgetary control and despite its tense nature in terms of the search for resources, we have been able to identify significant additional resources, that is, a good hundred people to take on this task of control. We will also ensure that the coordination and structuring of the various services is refined so that the adaptation of the legislation (if the conclusions confirm our analysis at this stage), the procedures, the organisations and the consultations can be translated into practice, but also that we are able to have the necessary forces to carry out all this work in the various inspection services.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u52	Mr Minister, I note that you have this desire to fight against all these fictitious associates, against all the unfair competition that can be encountered between SMEs and independents. The impracticability of the current law must indeed be corrected. I note in passing the four general principles of assessment that you intend to put in place. As you point out, it is important to have better coordination of field inspections. It is true that we can draw on certain elements applied in our neighbours. I am also pleased to learn that, under the last budgetary control, about 100 new staff will be delegated to deal with these controls on the ground. I believe that we can trust your sense of work and your defence of the self-employed to carry out all these reforms.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u53	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fonck's 9555 lapses as she is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u54	Madam Chair, Minister, the U.S. Department of Agriculture recently released the Impact Assessment Report for both sides on the Transatlantic Potential Agreement (TTIP). The conclusions of this report are final. On the one hand, the European agricultural sector would be the biggest loser of this trade. On the other hand, Europeans have little to gain from it. This U.S. report sets out several scenarios. In the first scenario, the US authorities estimate their gain at over $5 billion for only $800 million at EU level. The U.S. profits would thus be seven times greater than ours. Mr Minister, is this report such as to move the lines of negotiations between the European Union and the United States on the signing of the TTIP? The report speaks of European gains, without specifying their share for Belgium. In your opinion, what would be, in the light of the recent US report, the economic and health losses and gains for Belgian agriculture stricto sensu? What position will Belgium defend in the future regarding the negotiations still under way, in the light of this new information? In addition, Minister Peeters has told us on numerous occasions that the SPF Economy has launched a study on the impact of this TTIP. Can you specify the deadline for the completion of this study? Finally, can you reassure us that the agricultural sector is well taken into account in this study?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u55	Madam President, Minister, you know our views on the draft transatlantic treaty. Moreover, the media review of this report of the department of!' U.S. agriculture has also been brought to our knowledge. This report highlights the positive impact of TTIP on US agriculture and the negative impact of TTIP on European agriculture. You regularly present yourself as a great defender of rural life and the agricultural world. Yet you are taking agriculture right into the wall, to believe the conclusions of this report. You stated in a written question that I asked you about the subject that you were convinced that these negotiations represented a potential for economic development, by removing tariff and non-tariff barriers for both the United States and the European Union, including for agricultural and agri-food products. In doing so, you are completely unaware of the quality characteristics of our European agriculture, the negative effects on the environment and the health that the adoption of US standards could have. You are unaware of the fact that agricultural products must be valued in proximity channels and that in terms of production costs, it is futile and suicidal to try to compete with those engaged in intensive agriculture, not concerned about the consequences for health, the environment and animal welfare. Reading the report should call for a firmer and more radical position on this issue. Minister, have you read this report? Have you asked your administration or firm to analyze it? What conclusions do you draw? What strategy do you intend to implement? Do you intend to propose to the federal government to refuse to continue negotiations for the conclusion of this transatlantic treaty in view of its impact on agriculture in our country? Since you are concerned about the future of our agriculture, this is the only conclusion that must be drawn. Have you given or intend to give a clear signal to the European Commissioner in charge of the matter? Do you intend to seize the other European Agriculture Ministers on the same subject? We are facing a great danger, but it is still time to avoid it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u56	Madam President, Minister, the Transatlantic Treaty, or TTIP, has already spilled a lot of ink, especially concerning supposed perverse and negative effects, such as the arrival of chlorinated chickens on our plates or the privatisation of our public services. If we sum up the TTIP to chlorinated chickens, it is clear that we will be against it. We must have a different vision. If the European Commission, under the mandate of the European Parliament, negotiates this treaty with the United States, it is with the aim of bringing about growth in Europe by simplifying transatlantic trade through the elimination of tariff and non-tariff barriers. A noble goal which, however, does not seem to convince in view of the fears conveyed to the citizens. However, according to the report of an impact study of the TTIP, Belgium would draw its pin from the game. Good news of which I am obviously delighted! Good news, of course, but to be nuanced: some sectors would be positively affected while others would be at risk of suffering. It is important to be careful: impact assessments are difficult exercises to conduct. Further studies will be published, which will or will not reinforce the results of the study. I'll keep an eye on this case. While I welcome the positive impact that the TTIP will have on certain sectors of our economy, I plead for support for those sectors which would be harmed by the Treaty, by reflecting today on aid specific to these sectors, so that they do not suffer from negative impacts from the TTIP, or a renegotiation of certain points. Belgium would therefore be the overall winner of the TTIP. It is then a matter of joy and not of cultivating fears among the population. It is a matter of clearly informing the citizen so that he understands that the TTIP is not a Trojan but rather an unprecedented opportunity to create growth. Minister, this is a delicate matter. In addition, caution should be exercised and all studies should be available. In view of the results of the study, which points in particular to the sectors which will suffer from TTIP, is it still possible at present to revisit these points, if any, already negotiated, in order to avoid the negative impact on these sectors? If not, do you think about aid measures specific to these sectors that are likely to be negatively affected by the TTIP? What aid are you planning to support Belgian SMEs' exports to the United States? In the wake of the TTIP, what about the impact of the treaty negotiated with Canada, which is much less discussed? Will Belgium benefit from this? If so, how?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u57	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the 28 Member States have given the European Commission a mandate to negotiate with the US authorities on this free trade treaty. The twelfth round of negotiations took place from 22 to 26 February 2016 in Brussels, with a number of monitoring and reporting mechanisms for the successive stages of negotiations and for the provision of certain documents. If this agreement is concluded, the decision to ratify the draft Treaty will be taken by all Member States, their parliaments, their governments and the European Parliament. As far as I am concerned, I can assure you that I remain extremely attentive to the TTIP negotiations and to the impact of this agreement on Belgian and European agriculture. The services, my team and I are in constant contact with those responsible for foreign affairs who are closely following the progress of the negotiations. Mr Gilkinet, however, I must correct your point. I do not think I will drag Belgian and European agriculture into the wall. On the contrary. If you quote me in a text, quote me globally. I have a fairly faithful memory of what I said. If we remove a paragraph from it by not adding "provided that", we distort my point. It would be elegant if you could agree in your reply, but I leave this to your appreciation. With regard to the report of the United States Department of Agriculture, I confirm that I have analysed it in detail and examined the conclusions in depth; I must also thank our friend Marc Tarabella, who was one of the first to give a broad voice to all those following the agricultural dossiers. This study contextualizes the importance of agriculture to these two major players, the United States and the European Union. Let us recall that the United States and the European Union account for 31% of world agricultural production. We are talking about a bilateral agricultural trade estimated in 2011 at 35 billion. This is therefore a huge issue which must also be considered in its asymmetrical dimension of tariff duties on imports. The U.S. impact assessment envisages three scenarios, taking into account, at the start of the 2011 base year, the removal of tariffs in Scenario 1, the removal of tariffs and non-tariff barriers in Scenario 2 and the consideration of consumer preference following a change in non-tariff barriers in Scenario 3. This study concludes that the TTIP agreement will lead to a significant increase in US exports to the European Union. This massive influx would lead to an increase in almost all agricultural prices in the United States, while downward pressure is expected to occur in some agricultural sectors. A normally constituted Minister of Agriculture, as I have the ambition to be, who reads this in a study of a partner with whom we are negotiating should not be questioned, worried, vigilant and active? Yes, of course, and that's my attitude. I attended the OECD Agriculture Ministers' meeting in Paris on Thursday and Friday in the presence of my American, New Zealand and Canadian colleagues. Expressing itself strongly in a press release is one thing, but attempting to deploy a concerted offensive strategy that is likely to succeed is also important. As far as this study is concerned, let us also take a good account. It was produced by the United States for the United States. I wondered how such a study could be produced when it must have an impact on the negotiators of the other party. This is tantamount to giving them arguments on their own behalf. On the other hand, as far as my overall vision is concerned, I consider that in a country like ours where exports are extremely important and where agri-food can also provide a number of interesting opportunities, whether for the agricultural sector or for other sectors, under no circumstances – I insist, Mr Gilkinet – trade agreements must be translated into negotiations where agriculture is the last variable of adjustment, where a number of models would be sacrificed, where a dimension of difficulty would be added to everything that our agricultural sector already knows, where the doors would be opened without the same conditions of animal welfare, health, traceability, quality, production and other elements, in short, the fundamentals of my well-known agricultural conviction. I have given dozens of presentations, lectures or communications on the subject. In full logic, at the European Council of Ministers on 15 February, I therefore requested, together with other countries, the preparation of a cumulative impact assessment. Not only do we need to calculate the mega-agreement, but we also need to see with Mercosur, Canada and others what this will give. Phil Hogan accepted this request from countries including Belgium, with a deadline for September or October of the combined study conducted by the European services. Of course, we have another claim to safeguard mechanisms. Attention to the import quota! I have just read what seems to have happened suddenly in Mercosur with a form of acceleration and a quota of imports that comes out of nowhere brutally and about which, Monday morning, in Luxembourg, I interviewed Phil Hogan. You asked me about the impact in Belgium. In this regard, I requested an impact assessment from the SPF Economy with an agricultural component. This study should be available in the summer. In full transparency, I will not fail to convey to you all its conclusions. Believe it, in this matter of extraordinary importance for the economy in general, for certain sectors in particular, for SMEs and for agriculture, to say "I close the door" while the rest of the world is opening a number of negotiations with each other, does not seem strategically opportune to me. On the other hand, to be a single second distracted, weak or not mobilized in relation to a number of issues but also risks would be serious to me. That is what I wanted to share with you in a way that is too succinct because this dossier would deserve us to discuss one day together, point by point, subject by subject, in a very precise way. These are the fundamentals of my conviction. This American study is, of course, very important. I look forward to the combined study at European level and the study of the SPF Economy at global level and including the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u58	Minister, thank you for your broad response. We are waiting for some studies. I hear Mrs Cassart-Mailleux's remark about playing on fears. We don't play on fears. For a number of years, discussions have been under way on the TTIP and we can only deplore the opacity of the beginning of the negotiations. Fortunately, this American report, which sounds like an alarm bell, has been published. I understand your analysis, which warns about certain points. We would still be accused of asking questions or scratching. This is essential for Belgian agriculture. I come from an agricultural commune where a motion has been voted on in the communal council in order to draw the attention of the various levels of power. You have to be aware. We need to talk about economic impacts and health impacts on plant health rules. Our farmers are already having enormous difficulties; it is essential to preserve our agricultural system and our short circuits. I am pleased to hear that you have requested a cumulative impact assessment at European level. I hope that there will be a more precise analysis of Belgium. I also hope that the impact assessment will not only be economic but will also be linked to phytosanitary rules and health. We also look forward to the analysis of the FPS Economy, which will target the agricultural sector among others. I will come back to the matter later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u59	Minister, I have a critical point of view on this issue and on how you deal with it. I assume it with words I have chosen. Mrs Cassart believes that we are agitating with fears. On the contrary, I believe that we are showing political and civic vigilance. I also think you're apprentice sorcerers. I don't know if you're using vaseline! With Mrs Cassart, who highlighted the value of this negotiation, I had the impression that sleeping pills were being used. Trust me because I manage the file very carefully! I draw attention to the fact that we are talking about removing non-tariff barriers. These are quality standards, standards for the use of plant protection products, animal welfare. That's why food is of good quality in our home. You are highlighting, Minister, the export potential associated with such agreements, but you are denying the risk of the potential for lower quality and lower-cost products to be imported from us in countries that do not have the same concerns in terms of sanitary standards and quality. That is really the problem! Ms. Cassart said that for some, this could create difficulties that would need to be compensated. Your logic is to agree to create big problems and a few dressings with public money. This strategy doesn't sound right to me. You announce that you have requested a European study and a Belgian study on the subject – this is a good idea. I wonder about the timing of the negotiations under way. Will these studies, whatever the conclusions, be completed within time limits that will influence the negotiations? You will see the possibility of taking more time to explain what is happening. Why cannot this committee hold a day of hearings with representatives of agricultural trade unions, including those who are more critical, observers, NGOs, who have studied the texts? If you are more able than the Minister of Foreign Affairs to give us the texts with the ability to analyze it other than in the reading room of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, you would do this work of continuing education. In conclusion, I am particularly concerned about your approach to the issue and the calm way in which you argue and try to answer us, which does not reassure me in any way, Mr Borsus. I do not want to be discourteous, but we will remain on a point of disagreement on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u60	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is clear, Mr Gilkinet, that you misinterpret the positions we take. I have always said that we must be careful, attentive, transparent about this TTIP. I also made it clear that the best information was not to scare the citizen. On the other hand, I would like to thank the Minister for the bilateral meetings he is working on and for the new study that will be released by the end of the year. We need more information to take a position. Obviously, we will be vigilant in this matter. The agriculture sector is in my genes. He's a priority for me. Therefore, we will support and we will not, as you say, go into the wall. We will pay attention to this sector, I assure you!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u61	Mr Pivin, may I ask you to keep an eye on time? We still have a lot of questions to ask and I would like to finish the agenda today, so that we do not have to stay here until late tonight. Is that why you can be brief?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u62	Madam President, the horeca sector suffers and continues to suffer. The current situation is not helpful. We've heard about this during the answers you gave to some questions and questions. This concern has been addressed in many of the measures taken by the government, but it remains. You probably saw the SNI newspaper which indicated that 45% of the 528 horeca establishments that acquired the cash register system have increased their prices since then. My questions are as follows. Is there an additional deductibility track envisaged for the installation of the system? Are the demands of the horeca federations to create a list of establishments offering small catering services and to clarify the concept of meals planned or studied by your services or, more broadly, by those of the administration? Are new measures still planned to support this sector, which, it should be recalled, is the first provider of low-skilled jobs in the Brussels-Capital Region?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u63	Dear colleague, the current issue regarding cash registers is that the file has been passed on to the government at first reading. The Council of State's opinion on these new provisions has just been received by the Minister of Finance. This is the exclusion of restaurants whose equivalent in terms of the provision of catering services does not exceed EUR 25 000. As soon as the most recent opinion of the Council of State has been studied by my colleague, the provision, subject to the examination of the Council of State, will enter into force. I have been informed by the horeca federations of their intention, subject to the examination of the text in its latest version, to again attack the text before the courts. I now turn to the supplementary measures. Apart from those relating to insecurity, there are no complementary tracks on the table at this stage. Except perhaps, in the context of a charter of use which we are preparing and which we are going to submit shortly to the horeca federations, we would like to clarify the different notions of small catering and meals that are mentioned. The administration will do the same. I recall that arrangements had already been made for the cash register. The first at the time of its launch was the reduction of VAT from 21 % to 12 % on the products concerned. The provisions on overtime, flexi-jobs and other items have been added. In the current budgetary context, in the short term, there are no new avenues for deductibility on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u64	Minister, I know you are very attentive to this problem; I know that if there was a possibility of improving the situation, you would not hesitate to commit to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u65	Madam President, Minister, in 2015, the independents contributed €252 million more to the social security funds than in 2014 as quarterly contributions. This is due to an increase in the income of the self-employed and an increase in the number of self-employed. Let's go back a little bit to that increase. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this increase in the number of self-employed may also be partly due to an increase in the number of part-time, acting or fixed-term workers. Since the early 2000s, these disadvantaged workers have been increasingly forced to start their own businesses in order to round off their end of the month and create a decent professional future. Minister, the number of self-employed has increased. Can you mention the number of part-time workers who have to complete their hours by becoming self-employed and the evolution of the poverty rate in recent years? How many new independents did Belgium register in 2015? Can you distinguish between complementary and primary self-employed persons? In January, in the press, you announced that you would want to redistribute the 252 million euros to the self-employed without having any specific idea. Have you ever thought about how to redistribute these 252 million euros? Has an agenda already been planned? What concrete and specific measures do you intend to take in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u66	We do have a whole series of statistics to give you. I'll pass them on to the president. I'm not going to read it to you. There are a series of figures per year, with complementary activities, persons working after the pension, the male/female categories and the total. The figure rose from 794,900 independents in 2000 to 1,033,998 (temporary data) in 2015. I can also tell you that in 2000, there were 306,441 active companies, compared to 486,000 in 2014. I also have the number of new facilities and activities. For the self-employed, in 2015 there were 66,000 new starter activities mainly, 34,000 in supplementary activities and 2,400 new activities after pension age, i.e. a total of 103,238. The figures for exemptions from social security contributions show a dramatic decrease in the number of cases introduced. I'll keep them at your disposal. Finally, concerning the EUR 246 million calculated on the basis of the financial result, which represents an increase in this result, this surplus of revenue is reflected in the self-employed scheme and will be used in accordance with the principles of overall financial management, first of all by allocating it to the financing of the total expenditure of the self-employed scheme. This money makes this regime more financially robust. In addition, a series of new measures are now either already decided or will be taken in the short term: bridge rights, the possibility of turning over and temporarily having a right, social protection, etc.The special provisions on female entrepreneurship, with the treatment now different from the situation of the independent mother during her maternity leave; the status of the student entrepreneur and other specific provisions. We thus have overall financial management with the funding of all expenses. We are helping to strengthen the general system of self-employed people. We are also taking special new steps to improve the statutes. I'll give you a lot of numbers to allow you to be fully informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u67	Thank you very much, Minister. I will read all these figures carefully. I will communicate them to the merchants in my commune who had questioned me about your comments in the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u68	Madam President, I do not have to convince the Minister of the proper match between training and education adapted to the demand of future and potential employers, but this question of the adaptability of academic knowledge with the labour market remains, from the fact that there are many testimonies, an essential issue. If these competences are the responsibility of the Communities and the Regions, it seems to me important to be able to encourage exchanges and to structure bridges between our independents, SMEs and TPEs with primary and secondary or higher education. Thus, the status of the student entrepreneur, even if it is very specific, is a good example of this issue of strengthening the link between the academic world and the labour market. Could you then tell me whether concrete measures are planned with your counterparts in the federated entities, with a view to setting up new initiatives ensuring an exchange of experience between our entrepreneurs and students? Is a common plan of new initiatives between your department, the Wallonia-Brussels Federation and the Flemish Community planned in the coming months?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u69	Dear colleague, I agree with your desire to better match labour market needs with training and learning. I stress the part of the powers which, today, are essentially the responsibility of the federated entities and, in particular, of the Communities. As far as I am concerned, we have made good progress on the student entrepreneur's file: the texts are ready and subject to the consultation of my colleagues in the government. The aim is that, for the next academic and academic year, the scheme will exist and that as many young people as possible can be tempted and accompanied to do so by this double investment as a student and as a young entrepreneur. Your idea is interesting. While respecting each other's skills, it is necessary to be able to build these bridges between the different federated entities. Your seductive idea does not exist today except through one-off contacts. Among these, I have, for example, accompanied the Sovereign and representatives of the federated entities on a study mission on alternance training in Germany, known as dual - the link between the economic, entrepreneurial and training worlds. It's an extremely interesting job. We held a follow-up meeting on this file. This remains an ad hoc process and I believe that contacts should be structured. I will contact my counterparts in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation and in the Flemish Community to see if, in an inter-ministerial conference, we can try to create this dialogue which I believe is important.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u70	A framework underpinned by our national motto, "union is strength". Thank you for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u71	According to an international study, European start-ups would create an average of thirteen jobs and plan to hire seven people in the next 12 months. As far as Belgian start-ups are concerned, a study reveals that they would have created an average of 7.3 additional jobs. On the other hand, the report of this survey notes that the first source of funding is often the savings of the founders and the support of family and friends. Thus, in Belgium no less than 35 % of these companies would have been financed from own funds. According to the study, while 90% of the start-ups surveyed find their activity to be satisfactory, many professionals in the sector are nevertheless demanding more financial support to develop their innovative activities. Minister, I have studied your SME plan a lot. I know he understands a lot of things. I wouldn't dare say that I know him by heart because I always study. I know that you know this problem and that it is important to you. However, my questions relate to whether you have statistics to confirm the job creation potential of Belgian start-ups, as well as the proportion of them actually financed from own funds. Do you consider the current tax incentives and access to financing to encourage the creation of innovative start-ups to be satisfactory?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u72	Many studies show, at European and international level, that the financing difficulties encountered by start-ups as well as the financing methods used by start-ups are diverse. These include studies carried out at the initiative of the European Commission or at the initiative of the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO). Most of these studies include country-specific statistics. In general, I note that start-up SMEs finance themselves initially on equity and by using the relatives, the famous three Fs (family, friends and friends). At a later stage in their development, they resort to bank or business angel financing, or other provisions. I see a large number of initiatives led by the banking sector, which I welcome, to finance the creation or growth of start-ups or businesses in general. It is well known that, alongside these schemes, we have wanted, through the SME tax shelter, to provide a significant tool to encourage community financing, crowdfunding and other elements of participation in the capital of young enterprises under four years of age. The objective was to raise or rapidly increase own funds with this 45 % tax deduction for natural persons, or less 30 %. It seems to me that this is a very strong case, especially since SMEs represent, as we know, 99% of our companies in Belgium and 52% of jobs in the private sector. There is therefore a potential for job creation linked to the creation and development of SMEs, which are essential to our economy. I therefore wish to continue to support these initiatives. As part of the SME plan you mentioned, the programme law of 10 August has really created this new financing framework. It is also known that these financing provisions and their tax deductibility at 45 or 30 per cent express themselves through four modes of financing. The first of these is the direct participation in the capital of the young company and the other three devote structured or indirect participations, or via platforms. These three other components of the application of these capital participations are being finalized, following the necessary consultation with the FMSA and a number of interlocutors. I hope that they can be implemented very quickly, so that the full mechanism will then be implemented. The other part concerns the evaluation of the law of 21 December 2013 on the financing of enterprises, which is currently under way. The methodology has been passed on to the government, consultations are under way. It also stresses that provisions such as the zero-conti measure or the additional reductions in social contributions on the very first jobs also help to help these start-ups. Measures are therefore taken in relation to funding. There is follow-up to a series of studies, tax incentives, evaluation of the December 2013 law, as well as measures related to employment or investment. This is the panel of what is today on the table. I do not exclude, depending on the evaluation and monitoring of this, that we can still improve and go further in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u73	The budgetary means allow us to do so. Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive answer. I am sure that these measures will still create new vocations in terms of start-ups in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u74	Madam President, Minister, the European regulation setting out the specifications for organic farming, the conditions for production, certification and placing on the market with the AB logo is currently under review. The European Commission has proposed a new text discussed in the European Parliament's Committee on Agriculture. As there is disagreement, the development of the file becomes worrying. The European Commission plans to require 100% organic ingredients in a product that would be labelled organic, while the European Parliament's Committee on Agriculture wants to allow a non-organic substitute if the organic ingredient is unavailable. Members of the European Parliament, unlike the Commission, also want to maintain mixed facilities, despite the risk of contamination of an organic crop by entrants used in neighbouring crops. They want to abandon the principle of decertification of an organic product in which the presence of products banned in organic agriculture, such as pesticides, GMOs, would have been detected beyond a threshold corresponding to a very low rate of contamination. Finally, they refuse to impose compliance with the AB specification on all imports into the Union. The current requirements for livestock farming, as proposed by the Commission, are also being undermined in relation to permanent access to open spaces and prohibitions on mutilation of farm animals. The field is therefore vast and all this is a little in jeopardy. If there is disagreement between the two institutions, this means that it is the European Council, and therefore the states, that will have to decide to preserve the specificity of organic farming. One wonders, in view of certain positionings, if some lobbies do not want to stop or completely disqualify organic farming. Mr Minister, Belgium will have to intervene and I believe that it must stand firmly and unambiguously in order to preserve the organic farming label. What will be Belgium's position? What alliances or pressures will you put in place to obtain the majorities necessary to ensure that the Belgian position is in favour of organic farming? There are worrying elements, both in the Commission's position and in Parliament's position. It is therefore really up to the states to be firm and ambitious in their positioning.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u75	Ms Gerkens, the proposal for a regulation on organic production and labelling of organic products was adopted by the European Commission on 24 March 2014. During the discussions at the European Council of Ministers between the end of 2014 and mid-2015, two groups distinguished themselves. The first called for a great autonomy of the Member States in order to develop the market for organic products with flexibility of controls and conditions of movement, and the second, including Belgium, wanted to maintain, or even strengthen and harmonise the level of requirements in order to ensure that any product bearing the organic label met the same criteria. At these meetings, the Belgian position was clearly communicated by me. For Belgium, when the presence of residues of non-authorised substances is detected in a biolabelled product, a control authority must be able to certify it, regardless of the origin of the product, the cause of the presence and the responsibility of the operator in that presence. For Belgium, it is imperative not to deceive the consumer and therefore not to accept the presence of unauthorized substances in a product marketed as a biological product. The decommissioning of non-regulatory products should cover all products, both European and non-European. Therefore, Belgium - and I myself - strongly opposed the proposal made at the time by the Latvian Presidency. However, a qualified majority was found at the Council on 16 June 2015. Only five countries opposed the proposed text: Belgium, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Denmark and Bulgaria, for the reason mainly related to the Article on decertification thresholds. My proposal for a text will come back to the Council at the end of June, according to my information. Ministers could, according to the Dutch Presidency's forward-looking programme, perhaps reach an agreement to close the negotiations with the Member States and with the European Parliament on the regulation of organic farming. As you have seen, Belgium's position has been particularly firm and offensive, even if we were very minority. The subject of the latest state of affairs will be discussed at the technical meetings of the Special Councils on Agriculture in which the regional entities participate. Alliances with a view to creating a possible majority in the Council will also depend on the position taken jointly by the Regions. That is the state of affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u76	Mr Minister, thank you for Belgium's strong response to organic farming. It's a difficult subject. I note that I have the same requirements for organic products produced in Belgium and those which will be imported and produced elsewhere. It's good to have this position. The motion for a recommendation that I will table will be in the direction of a firm position regarding the certification of a non-organic product present in organic products, regardless of reason or origin, responsibility. I think we need to focus on 0% of the presence of unauthorized substances (pesticides and others). We are in a country where organic and non-organic agriculture exists. Contamination is common. Currently, a small threshold is allowed. We need to focus on 100% organic or 0% other. Measures must therefore be taken to avoid contamination. Sometimes the organic producer is not responsible for this contamination. Belgium must complete its arrangements. You're saying we'll remove the certification, regardless of responsibility or origin. Who, if the presence of the contaminant comes from nearby crops, compensates the organic producer who will see its production downgraded? I believe that Belgium must defend provisions providing that compensation for contamination must be paid by the contaminant and not by the contaminated person. Finally, the polluter pays principle must be applied. I also believe that anti-fraud mechanisms need to be strengthened to ensure that organic products are effective. There is, of course, a need for additional measures by individual States to minimize the potential for contamination. That is why mixed cultures also raise questions. In doing so, do we facilitate the evolution towards bio or do we maintain ways of doing things that will make possible and perhaps even promote contamination? The recommendations I am putting forward do not run counter to the positions you have taken, except that you do not take into account the responsibility of the contaminant, which must be incorporated into the texts. That is the point, obviously essential, on which I would like to draw your attention and ask for your mobilisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u77	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Muriel Gerkens and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Muriel Gerkens and the response of the Minister for Middle Classes, Self-Employed, SMEs, Agriculture and Social Integration, Calls on the Government to defend, at the level of the Council of the European Union, which will have to take a position on the revision of the 2007 European Regulation which sets the "cahier des charges" for organic farming, the conditions for production, certification and placing on the market with the AB logo, the following positions: - to prevent the low level of quality of organic products; - the permitted non-organic residue threshold/pesticidal tolerance threshold for organic products is as close as possible to 0 %; - to take additional measures to prevent possible contamination of organic crops; - that compensation for the contamination is not the responsibility of the organic farmer, but of the person responsible for the contamination, in accordance with the polluter pays principle; - anti-fraud controls are strengthened; - that the guideline be the precautionary, preventive and polluter pays principles to reduce the use of pesticides in the distribution chain and in general." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Muriel Gerkens and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Muriel Gerkens and the reply of the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, Self-employed, SMEs, Agriculture and Social Integration, calls on the Government to defend the following views to the Council of the European Union, which will have to take a position on the review of the 2007 European Regulation determining the characteristics of organic farming, in particular the conditions of production and certification and the conditions for placing products on the market with the AB logo: - to avoid any downward levelling of the quality of organic agricultural products; - the permitted threshold for non-organic residues and the tolerance limit for pesticides in organic agricultural products should be as close as possible to 0 %, - additional measures should be taken to prevent contamination of organic crops, - not the bio-farmer, but the person responsible for the contamination must pay for the compensation resulting from it, in accordance with the 'polluter pays' principle; - the strengthening of anti-fraud controls; - the precautionary and prevention principles and the polluter pays principle should be used as a guideline to reduce the use of pesticides in the distribution chain and in general." A simple motion was tabled by Kattrin Jadin and Caroline Cassart-Mailleux and Benoît Friart. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Kattrin Jadin and Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux and Mr Benoît Friart. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u78	Since February 2014, the law obliges banks to justify their refusal of credit and to inform them of the possibilities of alternative financing under a code of conduct to which banks have had to adhere. This provision was passed by Minister Laruelle. The Code stipulates that banks must give either orally or in writing the reasons why credit was refused. There is therefore an obligation to state the reasons for the decision. This motivation is important as it also allows banks, in accordance with the purpose of the Act, to give the contractor a return on their doubts about the feasibility or quality of the proposed project. However, a study by the NIS shows that in 49% of cases, entrepreneurs and managers of SMEs did not receive the reasons for the total refusal to grant the loan or credit. In addition, the NIS study reveals that only 10% of banking institutions have informed business clients of alternative forms of financing. It punctuates this finding by recalling that in these difficult economic times alternative financing and guarantees are entirely appropriate. Minister, do you have any further information about these bank failures? What is your reaction? How do you intend to correct this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u79	The law of 21 December 2013, an initiative of my predecessor Mrs Laruelle, whose quality of work carried out during all these years, is subject to evaluation. Article 8 provides that the credit institution shall inform the undertaking of the essential elements on which the refusal of a credit is based or which have influenced the risk assessment. The objective is that transparent communication of the elements taken into account by credit institutions will enable companies, wherever possible, to better prepare, adapt, motivate or document their subsequent credit records. From our National Bank's figures, between June 2014 and June 2015, the volume of bank loans granted to small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) increased by 1.19% and 2.24% respectively. On the basis of the same figures, it appears that 77% of the total outstanding appropriations go to SMEs. Moreover, according to the Febelfin figures on quarterly credit barometers for companies, in the second quarter of 2015, the level of refusal reached its lowest level since 2009. For example, 86 per cent of requests for appropriations were fully or partially approved. I therefore see a number of positive developments in the granting of credit to SMEs, as well as in the confidence of SMEs in the banking sector. For a careful reading, I also see a number of voluntary actions in the banking sector aimed at SMEs. However, it is known that the law of 21 December 2013 must be subject to an extremely careful evaluation. This evaluation is currently under way. Through this, we need to assess how the law has been applied since its entry into force and, where appropriate, the possible paths of change to respond to the difficulties that would be encountered by SMEs and that would not be taken into account by the provisions currently in force. The evaluation focuses on the following areas. I quote: a sample survey of SMEs; the BNB's figures on credit to SMEs, as well as the statistics of the Ombudsman in financial conflict in this respect; a detailed report drawn up by Febelfin, as well as a detailed report drawn up by the FSMA, containing the findings and positions reached after these checks. I am pleased that this evaluation is now under way. I have read the study of the IMS as well as a number of other explanations or information. I hope that all this assessment will be carried out in accordance with the law, but also with the utmost rigour by gathering as many analytical elements as possible. I will have the opportunity to conduct with you a series of possible findings. We are at the heart of the process. Give us some time to give us the opportunity to conduct this exercise in depth. It touches on a central element, namely the financing of activity, growth and the creation of activities. I must also take into account a number of analytical elements that the banks regularly communicate to me concerning the projects, including a number of files requested.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u80	Thank you for those answers, Minister. I wish I knew a date. If the evaluation is under way, I guess a timing is planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u81	I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u82	The survey and tracking of self-employed and SMEs is particularly important. I would like to know what is happening with the other organizations. The National Bank notes an increase in loans to SMEs from 1 to 2 per cent, which is good. But we also know from the field that many are still refused, sometimes for good reasons. Surveys are the only source of information you will have about law enforcement in terms of motivation and information on alternative forms of funding. I think we need a significant number. Investigations must take the time to ask these different questions, not just "accepted or refused". We should know how they were received and how things were explained. When you have given me the date of completion of this evaluation, I hope we will be able to discuss it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u83	Madam President, Minister, on March 7, you presented your measures to encourage female entrepreneurship with the aim of rebalancing the balance that now only one third of the self-employed are women (proportion that has barely changed over the last five years). As you may know, this is a subject that particularly affects us as ecologists and we therefore welcome the fact that you are finally taking it with your arms. With regard to the measures announced, and pending detailed texts, several proposals seem interesting to us: the establishment of a barometer on female entrepreneurship, the extension of maternity leave for self-employed persons (with the possibility of taking it flexibly), the facilitation of the use of employers' groups or the raising of awareness of female entrepreneurship at an early age. Having said that, we are in dire need of an axis, Minister. This is the total absence of husbands, fathers or companions in your disposition. In other words, where are the men in your plan for female entrepreneurship? Indeed, in our view, men have a crucial role to play in the balance between family and professional life of the self-employed. They must also be the first to be made aware of women's entrepreneurship and to support their partners in their entrepreneurial projects. It is for this reason that we propose, in particular, to introduce a 10-day paternity leave for the self-employed or also to grant service certificates when the self-employed become dad. A second pillar is missing, the one valuing the image of women entrepreneurs in a world that is still essentially male. We would indeed have liked to see proposals to increase the visibility of women entrepreneurs and to promote the emergence of female role models in all sectors as part of your plan. Minister, do you intend to introduce paternity leave for self-employed persons? Would you be prepared to support such a measure? What are you planning to propose in order to further enhance the image of women entrepreneurs in a world that is still essentially male?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u84	Madam President, Minister, on March 7, 2016, on the eve of International Women's Law Day, you presented the federal plan for women's entrepreneurship. He has shown the government's full attention to these wealth-creating, job-creating people in our society. Although women account for more than half of the workforce, too few women are still engaged in entrepreneurship. This fact is not unique to our country and applies to the whole European continent. Strong measures must therefore be taken to encourage those who want to take the step of self-employment, but also to support those who have already created their jobs. In this sense, the announcement of your plan has obviously caught our full attention and we would like more information on its scope. Minister, could you outline the measures that have been adopted in the Women's Entrepreneurship Plan? To what extent do they respond to the consultations you have conducted with the employer, including recently the Neutral Union for Independents? Do you already have a timetable for implementing the measures? If so, could you communicate it to us? Finally, what steps have been taken to disseminate, as widely as possible, the content of your plan to the main stakeholders? Will partnerships be established with sectoral federations and social secretariats?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u85	Honourable Members, as I undertook on 7 March, I tabled substantial proposals on the government table on women's entrepreneurship. The figures are clear: only one third of the self-employed are women. This rate has hardly changed in five years. At European level, the number of women entrepreneurs is 26%, while at home it is 23%. The situation is therefore not bright and is not evolving positively. We have therefore launched the plan to support women's entrepreneurship, which is structured around four axes. First, we will create a barometer of female entrepreneurship. We need statistics by sector, clear and reliable figures that allow us to establish a real monitoring in this area. This plan was put in place after very broad consultation with all stakeholders, all representative structures, etc. Secondly, we will take measures to improve the social status of independent women and, in particular, to facilitate reconciliation between family and working life. This requirement came at the top of the survey I conducted with the representative structures. In this context, you know that maternity leave for self-employed people is very specific. It consists of three fixed weeks plus a variable portion that we have extended by four weeks. It is then possible to receive 105 service titles to receive support during this period. I would add that the variable period can be taken part-time or week-long. This allows you to take a week's leave and then rework the following week. This corresponded to a demand from the sectors concerned. In addition, in collaboration with Unizo, I started working on the development of a new status, that of self-supporting, so as to help the people concerned during this period. But I am considering extending it to other particular moments. Mr. Vanden Burre, I wasn't distracted. If I recall correctly, in your current question in plenary, you had already raised the issue of paternity leave. In the priorities of the sectors I have consulted, this is not the first priority. I asked the Independent DG what would be the cost of a five-day paternity leave. It would amount to EUR 4,586,000 of the annual budget cost, to be adjusted proportionally in the event of an extension. I don't rule out. I didn't say all this wasn't about dads. On the contrary, I repeat here, I remain open. This situation of paternity leave deserves to be studied. This does not close the file, on the contrary. Thirdly, with regard to access to finance, we, together with the banking sector, wanted to put in place some awareness-raising elements through traditional banking actors. We will create the most open crowdfunding platform prize for female entrepreneurship. We're going to do benchmarking. We're going to make an example value, etc. We will provide training and information for independent women. All of this is disseminated through the media, through the report of this committee, which I hope as many people as possible will read, and through the business counters, social secretariats and associations, which are privileged interlocutors. Furthermore, regarding the value of exemplaryness, in order to stimulate a movement, we had already initiated this dynamic at our press conference held with Mrs Maggie De Block, since there were a series of entrepreneurs present: Mrs Dominique Monami, Mrs Delvigne, the President of the Belgian Confederation of Construction, and others. The goal is, through a series of success stories, to create a movement. I really urge you to contribute to this movement. There is no objective reason, as I say very clearly, for these figures, these situations not to be improved in the future. This plan is already a fairly broad response to the situation. He has the ambition to evolve if necessary. I do not exclude, Mr. Vanden Burre, the elements you mentioned. A positive dynamic is to be created, because part of the development of entrepreneurship passes, as I said earlier, by the students, by the starters, by the growth of enterprises and also by the female entrepreneurship. On the other hand, I have another file that we have not yet dealt with. We're thinking about it, and it promises to be exciting. It is about diversity entrepreneurship. Also, don't hesitate to share your ideas with me! This file requires special work. I am not going into detail, but there are a lot of doors to analysis; a diversity entrepreneurship that should also be encouraged, promoted, promoted, etc., without being discriminating. It's a beautiful concept to work together. Don't hesitate to let me know your suggestions or ideas in this regard!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u86	Minister, thank you for your answer. Among the elements that you propose, many are those that seem positive to us. There were two areas of doubt and we felt that they could have been much more ambitious. I would like to return to three particular points. You mentioned the priority of the sectors. As far as this is concerned, you have consulted, I have no doubt. It refers to social status and not really to requests for paternity leave or the elements relating to fathers or companions. For our part, we also interviewed the UCM, the SMI and other field associations. What emerges as a priority for female entrepreneurs who have been interviewed is the desired balance between private and professional life. We can translate this theme with the social status of the self-employed and respond to it with measures supposedly in favor of the father. With regard to this priority of seeking a balance, the need to accompany the self-employed who have the happiness of having a birth and who could help, for five or ten days – this remains to be formulated – their entrepreneurial companion. I note with satisfaction your spirit of openness in relation to the debate. We will ensure that we can continue this discussion in the Committee on the Economy on the basis of more precise texts. I understand that you have shown some female entrepreneurs as an example in your presentation to the press. In general, stereotypes are rooted from an early age through kindergarten or primary school. I am convinced that all work is to be done on the images and clichés that children have from an early age on occupations and on entire sectors. The number of women in more technical occupations in universities is sufficient. It's obvious. An education is to be done from an early age. I am not saying that this is solely your responsibility and responsibility. The promotion of business leaders in sectors where they are not yet expected, unfortunately, is necessary. I come to the entrepreneurship of diversity. We also have a lot of proposals on this subject and we will be happy to discuss them with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u87	Mr Minister, I thank you for all this very clear information, which is the result of a relatively broad consultation, which shows strong support on this subject. I will be attentive, in the future, to the door that you have opened to the entrepreneurship of diversity. It's a nice construction site. There's material. When you come back with concrete proposals, we will ask you again. For our part, we will reflect, as you have suggested, on proposals. This may be the case with other political groups as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u88	Madam President, I have forgotten to say that the coming into force will be on January 1, 2017 for maternity leave, except for the exemption from the payment of social contributions with retention of rights, which will come into force as of the last quarter of 2016. This is one of the other developments, which I did not mention. From now on, for one quarter after delivery, social contributions will be exempt with maintenance of rights. This will apply from the end of 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u89	Madam President, Minister, my question concerns figures and more background information on disabled self-employed people. In recent months, the reintegration of disabled workers has come to the fore, particularly with regard to rising expenditure on sickness and invalidity benefits as a result of the increase in the number of disabled workers. This problem also arises, but in a different way, in the case of self-employed workers. I do not have sufficient information on the duration of the incapacity for work in the self-employed and its possible repercussions. This is one of the reasons for this question. In the case of disabled self-employed persons, I believe that special attention should be paid to the human aspect of illness and long-term incapacity for work, and to the necessary commitment to the reintegration of those self-employed workers into the labour market, regardless of any return to their self-employed status or the inclusion of another status. This definitely needs to be looked at. I have also questioned Minister De Block about this and she would take this issue on board. First, however, it wanted to take care of the reintegration of disabled workers and only in the second place would the self-employed be dealt with. Personally, I think this should be done at the same time. A second aspect, in addition to the human aspect, is the need for guidance and support in reintegration. I believe that we should also take into account the problem of poverty in the case of long-term disabled self-employed workers. I come to my questions, Minister. Firstly, how many self-employed persons were disabled last year up to six months? How many were disabled for more than six months? How does this number of short-term and long-term disabled persons relate to the previous four years? I would have liked the figures for 2014, 2013, 2012 and 2011. Secondly, how long will self-employed persons remain on average disabled? Is there any change in this respect in relation to the four previous years? If so, what evolution is noticeable in this respect? For the sake of clarity, I would like to say that you may also give those figures in writing. You do not need to list them all if the written information is available. I would have liked to have been given oral answers on developments and possible trends. Thirdly, how many short-term and long-term disabled self-employed people live below the poverty line? Fourthly, what measures are currently being taken to accompany, support and, finally, reintegrate self-employed persons who are short-term and long-term disabled during and after their incapacity for work? Fifth, do you have any idea how many of the self-employed in general have guaranteed income to cover themselves in this way in the event of incapacity for work? It could be an additional help for their income. How many of the self-employed have taken out specific insurance against incapacity for work?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u90	Ma'am, this is, of course, a very important question. As regards the evolution of the cases of incapacity for work, the latest figures available to RIZIV relate to the year 2014. There were 6 311 cases of primary incapacity for work of less than six months and 6 561 cases of primary incapacity for work of more than six months. Madam President, I have two pages of figures here. Maybe I can transfer it in writing?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u91	Madam President, I understand that the figures are given in writing. That's good. Has there been an answer to the additional questions, in addition to the figures? Okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u92	Minister, on March 8, you granted the areas of Avenue de la Toison d'Or and Goulet Louise the status of tourist zone, which allows traders to open 7 days a week and 24 hours a day. This authorisation was granted at the request of the municipality of Ixelles and its mayor, your liberal colleague Dominique Dufourny, who welcomed this change of status. As you know, associations representing traders and self-employed people, in particular the UCM and the SNI, are extremely sceptical about these unlimited openings which are harmful to the quality of life of small businesses, clearly benefit large groups capable of employing a more flexible workforce and do not respond to a particular wish of the traders concerned. In the words of the SNI, "opening Sunday does not fit the reality of small traders". The Belgian Trade Federation, Comeos, also warns against these practices by pointing out that they do not make sense if it is to move turnover from another day to Sunday. Finally, the current law already makes it possible to organize special openings in special circumstances (public holidays, sales, holidays, etc.). maximum 15 times a year, without changing the status to a tourist area. These derogations could therefore have been sufficient to meet the objectives of the ixelloese mayor, who announced a plan to open the shops on a Sunday per month. It is in this context that I would like to ask you the following questions. What are the objective elements that have prompted you to grant tourist zone status to the areas of the Golden Fleece and the Louise Gully? What are the factors analyzed to meet this type of demand? Also, was there a particular demand from traders? If so, could you provide us with the numbers of the surveys conducted or of the surveys carried out with the traders concerned? Do you share the view that these unlimited openings penalize the quality of employment and therefore the quality of life of the small traders and the self-employed concerned? What are the accompanying measures you are considering with regard to them with the change of status? Finally, the mayor of Ixelles wishes to submit a similar application for the districts of Ixelles, Saint-Boniface and Matonge. You apparently refused this request for the first time. Can you give us the reasons? Do you accept that the same file has been returned several times for the same district, since we already know that the mayor wishes to reintroduce a dossier of change of status for the roadway of Ixelles, the district Saint-Boniface and Matonge? I am an Ixellois concerned with the quality of life of the small traders in my municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u93	Mr President, first of all, following the entry into force of the Sixth State Reform, the decision-making process for the recognition of tourist centres within the framework of the legislation has been amended with the need for the assent of the regional authorities. The criteria for recognition are set out in article 2 of the Royal Decree of 16 June 2009 implementing article 17, paragraph 2, of the Act of 10 November 2006 on opening hours in commerce, crafts and services. What are they? Firstly, tourist reception is carried out by an organisation approved by the competent authorities in the field of tourism or by those authorities themselves. Secondly, tourism is of paramount importance for the economy of the municipality or part of the municipality. Third, there are affluences of tourists who are staying or passing through because of the existence of tourist attractions. It should be noted that, prior to my decision, the Brussels Capital Region's assent of 25 February 2016 is supported by numerous figures for the recognised area. However, as you have pointed out, the bulk of the application for the municipality of Ixelles has been rejected since only part of the original application has been accepted, the rest having been refused in the absence of satisfaction with the three legal criteria which I have just recalled. Therefore, with regard to the examination of this type of case, it is appropriate to follow the decision-making process, the substantiated nature of the case which must take account of these criteria and the Region's assent. Let us come to the situation of the small traders and the self-employed concerned. Believe me, I have a constant concern. I don't have to demonstrate it. Furthermore, I am extremely careful to ensure that the legal framework is strictly observed. For your question on the desirability of unlimited openings, I would like to point out that as Minister of the Middle Classes - and listening to the structures representative of the self-employed - I am committed to the principle of the weekly and night closure of our retail businesses, as I have shown on several occasions, which allows the self-employed, in particular those who do not employ staff, to also enjoy well-deserved rest and privacy, protected from competition 7 days a week and 24 hours a day. I am not opposed to maintaining some flexibility in tourist centres, as organised by the 2006 Act. Furthermore, I should like to point out that the initiative to request these recognitions is the responsibility of the local authorities, which carry out the consultations in this regard with their citizens, economic actors, the middle classes and the self-employed. As you know, I have before me other applications, in particular concerning Brussels City or the rue de Brabant in Schaerbeek. I can't predict other files that would be addressed to me. In any case, I have taken from several considerations that the authority able to rule never expresses itself on a case before it is brought before it and, much less, before it has obtained all the opinions which form the basis of its decision. Moreover, announcing such a decision prematurely without having the legal criteria that must accompany it is likely to create a fundamental legal defect. So allow me not to express my views on any other dossier in Ixelles, Schaerbeek or elsewhere that would be addressed to me in the future. This is a basic legal precaution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u94	Minister, I understand that the objective results are rather the responsibility of the Region, to which I will therefore turn. I understand you're not taking a decision on the future cases you're going to receive. Here, it is because we already know that this will be the same file. A priori, the neighborhood will not fundamentally change. There is no objective reason for the decision to change. Thank you for your clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u95	Questions Nos 10313 by Mrs Dierick and 10448 by Mrs Gantois under item 19 are converted into written questions. Questions Nos 10498 by Mrs Dierick and 10507 by Mrs Fonck have been postponed; questions Nos 10526 by Mr Degroote and 10580 by Mrs Gantois have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u96	Minister, in 2014, micro-credit companies in Belgium granted more than 780 loans, for a total amount of 5.6 million euros. These financing mechanisms, involving very small amounts of less than EUR 25 000, allow young entrepreneurs who have been refused loans from traditional banks, for lack of sufficient guarantees, to have the funds needed to create or develop their own business. While microcredit is not in itself a very profitable activity, an active company in Brussels and Wallonia claims to have contributed to the creation of more than 1,000 jobs and to the preservation of another 1,000 through its alternative microfinance activities, thus contributing substantially to the dynamism of our economy. Like the Commission's programme offering guarantees to micro-credit companies, do similar mechanisms currently exist in Belgium for the benefit of micro-credit companies? Have promotion and awareness-raising campaigns on the opportunities offered by the use of microcredit been developed by your department to the attention of potential entrepreneurs? If so, do you consider them sufficient or plan to deploy others in the near future?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u97	Madam Member, the provisions provided for in the programme law of 10 August so allow investors to benefit from a tax reduction, as mentioned earlier, in the event of direct investment in the capital of SMEs and SMEs, as well as in the context of loans granted to these enterprises. I would like to stress that direct investment in the capital of eligible companies is working and is now benefiting from a tax advantage. The benefit of the tax reduction will also apply to investments made via crowdfunding platforms, starter funds, as soon as the statutes relating to these instruments are finalized, that is very soon. It is only then that all the provisions of the programme law will be fully applicable, that the impact of the tax shelter on the financing of SMEs and TPEs, and initiatives such as those mentioned, can be truly measured. The rapid implementation of these statutes is one of my priorities, so that the whole system can function. The communication of the measures of the programme law has already been carried out, but it is especially at a time when all the provisions of the programme law will be applied that it will be essential to inform investors, micro-investors, and those who will be able to benefit from the investment modalities and the above-mentioned tax advantage. As soon as the statutes of alternative financing platforms and starter funds are in place, I will ensure that these investment modalities are sufficiently visible. Indeed, I consider it essential that investors, the companies concerned, those carrying microprojects, be informed as best as possible of the possibilities available to them and of the different investment modalities provided for in the programme law, but also of the existing tools in the form of guarantees, as well as of the instruments available at the level of the federated entities. With regard to guarantee schemes, such schemes exist in Belgium, but in the case of investment aid measures, they fall, in accordance with our federal model, within the competence of regional levels of power, except in the case of exports. For young people who would start to export, federal instruments, through the Ducroire, are available.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic377x.u98	Thank you very much, Minister. I think that everything about economic export policy should be federated. But that's another subject. I would like to thank you for your full answer. I am looking at your SME plan; I know that the measures you have just mentioned are already in place in part. I am pleased that more will follow and I will of course be at your side for implementation.
