ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u1	The Minister wishes to speak briefly before the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I greet you all and I hope that you have had an excellent holiday, even if you have already resumed your work. Given the number of questions and committees that meet simultaneously, it seems to me that it will be difficult for me to answer all the questions on the agenda, even if I am available. If you wish, I would like to propose another very close committee meeting to answer all the questions that could not have been dealt with today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u3	Thank you, Minister. We will go as far as possible on our agenda. You stay till 1:00. We'll take stock at that time. I would ask colleagues to be as concise as possible in their speeches.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u4	Mr. Chair, I chose this title for my question because, obviously, the lessons of the past were not enough for Minister Marghem. I filed an oral question immediately after I discovered the newspaper article on Friday morning. Minister, I must say that since then things have changed considerably. I have therefore adjusted my question according to the elements that have appeared in recent days in the newspaper Le Soir and the newspaper L'Echo, as well as following your comments on RTL's antennas this weekend. How do you sum up the situation before you ask yourself the questions? Of two things one: either there is collusion between you and Electrabel and EDF, and therefore voluntary intention to subtract Electrabel and EDF from the right contribution they owe, from the nuclear tax; or you again miserably crashed and proved your incompetence in a sensitive case. He's not the first and I'm afraid he's not the last. The problem is political. It is your political responsibility in this matter. All the more so since your explanations in the press these days are not on the road. It is therefore important to have a definitive, firm, clear explanation here. Parliament's reports will of course count. You're a lawyer. You have often made this point in the course of parliamentary work. However, from a legal as well as a political point of view, there is nothing standing on this issue. I'll go back to your attempts to explain. The information was released on September 15, after you refused to answer the questions. Your version was released the next day. You have provided two important elements for the continuation of this case. First, in your view, the deadline of 15 September does not prevent the discussion from continuing. Secondly, you state that there is no disputed amount. Your first argument is totally wrong. If we refer to the content of the Tihange 1 Convention, and in particular Article 8.3 thereof, we read precisely that the matter must be decided by an independent expert by 15 September at the latest. It was not a question of appointing one on that date, but of deciding the matter. So, what you're supporting is wrong. Indeed, from the moment you are beyond 15 September, you consider, in the light of the above article, that there is no dispute as to the amount established by the operators, namely Electrabel and EDF. This first argument is not on the road. By the way, Mr President, I will table a copy of Rule 8 for colleagues to know what we are talking about. I say that because we have already had discussions on this convention. We already wanted to make it public, but the minister refused and made it difficult. I'll give it to you so we can spread it and know what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u5	And at the same time, I will ask you to conclude. Time passes very quickly, Mr. Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u6	Second element of your line of the 16th, there is no disputed amount. And the next day, on the 17th, there is a rebound: with the same aplomb, change of line at 180 degrees. You say that an expert is appointed to assess the surplus required. In 24 hours, you said exactly the opposite of what you said the day before. You announce that there is an agreement with Electrabel and EDF for the appointment of an expert. But here we are completely outside the scope of the Convention. It is too late, we are no longer in the framework of the convention. As you have allowed the deadlines to run, since we are beyond 15 September, there is no more possible dispute within the meaning of the convention. From there, you are held by the good will of Electrabel and of EEDF. I know you, you're obviously going to deny all this. But, legally – and I am going to table the text of Article 8 – things are clear. I come to my questions. I think that this time you need to give a definitive version of the facts. First question. On 25 June, we receive the report from CREG. Do you confirm that this report does not validate the amount paid in advance by the Electrabel and EDF operators? Do you confirm that the CREG does not validate this amount, that it makes different assumptions and looks for the 4 million plus hypothesis? Second question. What happened between June 25 and September 13? On June 25, it is the date on which the CREG signs and transmits its report to you. What do you do from the moment you receive the CREG report? I guess this is not just a translation issue. It does not take two months to translate a report, if it is written in Dutch. I assume, but you will tell us, that you knew the deadline of September 15, and that you did not find out by chance at the last moment. What are you doing between June 25 and September 13? Does your administration warn you? Is there a note from your administration? Do your firm, your collaborators, take stock with you, write a note and, if so, when? What is the content, what are they telling you? Is the Budget Office asking you about this, given that $7 million is blocked in a transition account? Other cabinets of the majority, since they will also have to speak on the issue, do they question you? That's my second block of questions. I'm coming to the third block. What exactly triggers your letter of the 13th? How come there is nothing between June 25 and September 13, where suddenly you send a letter to Electrabel? What is the trigger for this letter of the 13th? Fourth, what happened between Friday 16 and Saturday 17? Why are you making a 180-degree change in your explanations? Fifthly, who is the designated expert and where does he come from? Who proposed his name: your administration or Electrabel? What guarantees are there for this expert to be completely independent, even though we are outside the Convention? I ask you to pay particular attention to the sixth set of questions. What are the terms of your exchange with Electrabel? On RTL-TVI, not in the part that went to the TV news, but in the content of the rushes that are broadcast on the channel's website, you say that Electrabel has committed itself to you to respecting the choice and decision of the independent expert. It would be all that would be missing. You say that, but you also state that you have received two letters confirming it. You add that Electrabel is also committed to reviewing the terms of the convention. I would like you to be very specific, and I challenge you to give us copies of the two letters in question. Beyond these two letters, I ask you to assure us that the deal you have agreed with Electrabel, which is obviously in a position of strength, is not simply to put the CREG out of play for the calculation of the next nuclear taxes on Tihange 1. I want to be sure that it's not this exchange that you concluded with CREG. I come to my last question. What did you talk about yesterday in intercabinets? We can understand that your colleagues in the majority are starting to get agitated. Again, "Marghem is a problem for this government." These are my seven questions, Mr. President. Of course, I expect a lot of clarification from the minister. I will come back in a second phase if other questions come to mind, but I also make a request to you. I would like the committee to have three pieces of information. First of all, what are the terms of the agreement? In other words, what are the two letters that the Minister spoke about on RTL-TVI? Then, what is the content of the letter she sent to Electrabel and EDF on 13 September? Finally, what notes have the Minister received on this matter, whether from her administration or from her office? You may be surprised that I didn't ask for the CREG report. In fact, I am not asking the minister, since this body depends on Parliament. I have therefore written to CREG to obtain those parts of this report that are not confidential. I am confident that my request will receive a positive response in the coming days, particularly in connection with the debates that we had in the Joint Committee on Economy and the Court of Auditors – in April, it seems to me. The Court of Auditors had indeed asked the CREG to be more transparent vis-à-vis parliamentarians. One consideration for its independence is this obligation, including the advice it provides to the Minister. Mr President, this discussion is therefore also about transparency, given the minister's procrastination and hesitant explanations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Nollet. We have somewhat exceeded the time allowed for the formulation of a question. I let each one put his own, but I will be more rigorous at the time of the replicas.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u8	Mr President, Madam Minister, as has been pointed out, in mid-April, Electrabel and EDF paid a fee of €7.2 million for Tihange 1. This overturns your speech that Tihange 1 was not going to report anything to the Belgian state. In accordance with the law and the convention, the CREG – which is obviously to be welcomed – has checked the level of this fee. As my colleague Nollet pointed out, the analysis of the CREG came to you at the end of June, almost three months ago. The regulator makes it very clear that the amount paid by Electrabel and EDF could be increased by a range ranging from zero to a few million euros, depending on the different methods of calculation. Mr Nollet and the press say that it is EUR 4 million, so I expect a reply from you on this matter. As Mr Nollet pointed out, we do not have the study. I must therefore simply quote the figures that you yourself have given this Friday. But, in summary, as our colleague pointed out, the CREG warned you in June that there were potentially millions to be recovered from Electrabel and EDF. So you knew about it by the end of June. Therefore, the first thing you should have done, as a good minister and manager of state money, would have been to activate Article 8.3 of the Tihange 1 Convention to appoint an independent expert. Why was it important to activate the article? Because it is a tool available to the minister for operators to pay correctly what they owe to the state. It is therefore a very protective way of acting for the state budget. You said it would fit into a fund. Whether the money lands in a fund or not, minister, it is exactly the same for the taxpayer. All this is about playing on words. Operators benefiting from an extension must pay their dues to the State. What is serious – and this is another mistake – is that for three months, this cabinet did nothing and the minister did nothing less! Nothing! This is total inaction at the minister's level! We are therefore potentially depriving ourselves of several million euros of the nuclear producers, let this government choose! This was found in Doel 1 and Doel 2's extension article. Minister, why didn't you appoint an independent expert, as permitted by section 8.3 of the Convention, when the CREG had duly notified you in June? Is it an attentist attitude or a deliberate will not to bother our two operators with whom you make a lot of agreements, especially on Doel 1 and Doel 2? Is it a deliberate desire on your part to sit on a CREG report and not to appoint an independent expert, which would be a serious mistake? In your press release, there are inconsistencies between the 16th and the 17th. Did you suddenly change your mind because you had calls from journalists who woke you up on this subject, especially on September 13th? In your press release of the 16th, you state that the CREG does not give any amount to contest the €7.2 million. But in the following sentence of the same press release, you indicate that the CREG analysis gives amounts that vary between 0 and several million euros in increase, depending on the method of calculation. In the first press release, you give the impression that the analysis of the CREG does not allow you to contest the payment made by Electrabel and EDF. It was in this way that I understood your statement of 16. If you felt that the CREG analysis was not operational enough, why didn't you immediately appoint an independent expert in June to clarify the situation, as the convention allows you? Again, where is the interest of the state in your failure to react, except to lose a few million euros? In that regard, Mr. Nollet said that it was the Chairman or himself who could seek the opinion of the CREG. It doesn't matter who can ask. Since it is the law that says that this analysis must be given to the minister, it would surprise me if it could be requested directly from the CREG. In any case, I am asking here for the non-confidential version (without the confidential figures), the version cleared by the CREG and not by you of the analysis that was communicated to you, Madam Minister. We will be able to verify your statements in relation to 16 September. On Saturday, September 17, you indicate that an independent expert has finally been appointed. That's good. The problem would normally have to be resolved on 15 September and you will appoint an expert on 17 September. It's still good management! Why did you say on Friday that no expert should be appointed except to do exactly the opposite the next day? What changed your mind, minister? You received the report in June. On the 16th, you indicate that we cannot work on this report, that there is no appointment of experts, and on the 17th, you appoint an expert. Minister, this gives the impression that there is absolutely no one in charge of energy in the federal government. Has this independent expert been appointed pursuant to Article 8.3 of the Convention? If so, what are the amounts claimed by the State to Electrabel and EDF? On the other hand, if this is not the application of the article of the Convention, what is the legal framework for the negotiation of this fee that you are conducting today with Electrabel and EDF? In conclusion, Mr President, I find that we are starting this year again as we have completed previous years, that is to say, with fundamental mistakes made by the Minister of Energy, which may cause the state to lose money. We call for full transparency on everything that has happened since the tabling of the CREG report in June. If, in the meantime, we could have a very clear answer and we could now be provided with the CREG report, that would allow us to work transparently.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u9	Mr President, once again we must ask ourselves whose map the Minister draws. Let me clarify this, Madam Secretary. As a minister, you must stand for the general interest, but once again it is clear that you stand for the interest of one particular company. My fellow Members have already talked about it in detail. We all know that, with a view to extending the lifespan of the old abandoned nuclear power plant Tihange 1, it was agreed that a nuclear tax should be paid. In 2015, it amounted to 7.2 million. The energy company would have calculated that tax itself, and the federal energy regulator, the CREG, immediately opposed it. According to the CREG calculations, the amount to be paid had to be several million euros higher. In the press, you contested that calculation. Anyway, we need to be clear about this. The agreement also provided that an independent expert could be appointed in the event of a dispute. As you knew from the CREG data that the amount had to be higher, it is completely incomprehensible not only to us but also to the public that you have not appointed an expert. According to the convention, he had to be appointed before 15 September. All of us, as a Belgian State, would now lose a number of millions. Madam Secretary, the bucket is really full. Again and again you draw the map of Electrabel. Let me give you three examples. Firstly, the lifetime extension gives Electrabel, at the expense of investors in alternatives, almost a monopoly position. Not just nuclear, but also gas. I'll come back to that later. Secondly, you're lowering nuclear interest rates. It's historically low, you can't avoid it. Thirdly, you intend to provide additional support to the gas plants. We all know that as long as there is nuclear energy, the gas plants are actually not profitable. You want to support them in addition now, and weird but where, who owns most of the gas plants? Electrabel. I believe, Madam Secretary, that the measure is full. I want an answer to a number of questions. The most important question has already been asked by colleagues: why on earth did you not appoint an independent expert when the CREG pointed out to you that there were millions to be made, while you have budgetary problems in this government? What was the exact amount of the nuclear tax according to the CREG calculations? You dispute those calculations, but I'd like to get the exact amount. In other words, according to the CREG, how many more millions had to be claimed from the operator? Did EDF/Electrabel also hold the calculator when calculating the nuclear tax for 2016? Perhaps you should inform us in advance that Electrabel will determine everything. Can you already tell us what the comments of the CREG are there? Has the CREG informed you on a number of occasions that you had to appoint an expert before 15 September, or has the CREG not informed you of this? Has she warned you a number of times? How many times did you get the message from the CREG that you had to pay attention and appoint an expert before 15 September to ignore the additional millions? Weird but true, suddenly an expert is appointed, but too late according to the contract. In what way was the expert appointed? Did that happen in conjunction with Electrabel? Who's the expert? My fellow Members have already mentioned the report. I think it is necessary for you to release the report now so that we can really see what has gone wrong or not, whether or not a major mistake has been made by not being appointed by the expert and, above all, whether the CREG has warned you on a number of occasions. First of all, you had to make additional millions and, second, appoint an expert before 15 September. You have every interest in reporting that report to us. I naturally support the request by my fellow Members to be able to discuss the report, either directly or through the chairman, here in committee. I am mostly curious to hear your answer, Madam Minister, but I am very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u10	Madam Secretary, I think the problem has already been sufficiently introduced. I am therefore mainly looking for objective facts. Of course, we have all read the newspapers, but every newspaper article looked a little different, so it would be good to find out exactly what happened now. So we can form a good picture of what has happened, what needs to be done and how we could have avoided it, should something have gone wrong. Firstly, what were the findings in the CREG report? Were there any comments on the amounts or the methodology? When were they delivered effectively? Was the CREG, as it should, on time with that report, so before 30 June, or was it not? When did you receive it? What happened after that? What steps were then taken after the report came in? Of course there is a period between the theoretical date 30 June and today. Has that been discussed in the government? Has there been any consultation with operators on the findings of the CREG? How exactly did all that go? Secondly, whether there is an expert or not, I can't tell from the newspaper articles. What is it now? When exactly was the knot cut to appoint an expert, if it has already been cut? The question is therefore specific when it is decided to appoint an expert. When exactly has he been appointed or is this appointment still to be carried out? Based on what parameters has it been assigned? Who made that decision in concrete terms? Was that your cabinet, or was it a basis for the government to appoint a specific expert? What caused the delay between the receipt of the report and the decision to appoint an expert? Maybe there's been some discussion about that. I would like to know why there might have been a delay there. Was the expert appointed inside or outside the convention? In short, has a separate agreement been reached on the appointment of an expert or not? Are there any consequences? I mean, here's what I'm talking about. If a separate agreement is reached on the appointment of the expert, is it the intention that there should be something against that agreement? Is that goodwill or something? I would like to know, so that we have absolute certainty that this has no hidden consequences. Finally, as far as the amount is concerned, amounts have been mentioned in the press. What is the amount according to the CREG? How are we supposed to estimate that amount? What is the effect of that amount? Where's that money going? There's the link to everything that has to do with wind energy at sea. Here in Parliament we have had an overview of this on a number of occasions. Part of it is paid through the Elijah rates. Some of them, namely degressivity, are paid through excise duties. Another part is paid out of the budget fund, which is filled by two thirds of the revenue from that tax. What is the effect if this tax is EUR 1 million lower or EUR 1 million higher? In this way, we want to be able to assess what is in the balance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u11	Mr President, Madam Minister, we have obviously been asked about the latest events, first of all media events, which concern a matter that we have all been following closely for a long time. Minister, what did you do between June 25 and September 13? That is indeed the question that is being asked here in this dossier. What have you done in terms of recovery or verification of a sum that is due as part of this energy produced in Tihange 1? Minister, when I see the whole issue, I can only see a chain of coucacs. First, a variable speech, which, I believe, undermines the credibility not only of the speech but of the government and your department. On Friday last week, you tell us that negotiations are continuing. And then, suddenly, Saturday, we appoint an expert. There may have been some resurgence or pressure, either from the Prime Minister before he left for New York or from your coalition partners. But there is indeed a change of attitude. The second element, which is a governance which I would call "bad": you say in your communication that the CREG does not give a figure, that it gives a procedure, a means of working. And you add that it goes from zero to a few million. So if it goes from zero to a few million, that means there are numbers. I therefore wish you could have told us more about these amounts. Is the simplest formula, Mr President, not for the CREG to send us this report, obviously redacted from confidential elements, or for you, on behalf of the institution, to ask for this report from the CREG so that things are clear and we can work transparently on this issue? I would like to go back to a few elements in the appointment of the expert. In fact, the ex post facto expert of 15 September is appointed. I imagine he's being named as an amendment to the Tihange 1 Convention. He was not appointed orally, there was a writing. I would therefore like to be able to dispose of this amendment. Minister, you're a lawyer. I'm a little surprised at how this is going. For Tihange 1, we don't negotiate, we apply a convention! This convention has been in existence for a long time, and it is not a question of negotiating matters again. We're running the convention! I would like to know all the elements of mail and mail exchanges on the appointment of this expert, under what conditions, at what cost, between the firm, your department and the operators. Who's appointed? How was he designated? What was the timing of the answer? I would like to have written explanations on these elements. I would like you to be completely transparent about this part of this matter that took place in a few days last week. Second element. In Tihange 1 there is no provision for recourse to arbitration. So, expert arbitration, it applies. I would like to know whether, in the context of this amendment as it was passed, there is a possibility for operators to appeal against this decision. I do indeed expect additional information from you and, above all, notification of the letters that have been exchanged. Third, on transparency and presentation of the file. In the sequence at RTL's JT, we hear that clarifications will be made to the convention. Why clarifications? What needs to be clarified? How are we going to clarify? Should this clarification be the subject of an amendment? I'd like more details from you in this episode? Is this clarification related to the appointment of an expert, the arbitration procedure, other matters and the possible role of CREG? I want you to be transparent, clear and precise. To return to the amount of the initial 7.2 million Tihange 1, to which it is probably necessary to add four – since this figure is circulating, but we are waiting for confirmation from the various protagonists – I really have the impression that you do not want it. You have shrunk our ears at previous committee meetings, saying that it would not bring anything back. I would still like to make the calculation: 7.2 million plus four, this leads to 60% more than the initial amount. If we spread this amount, which corresponds to three months, over a year, we exceed 40 million. I would like to draw your attention to this point. Finally, Madam Minister, you must be politically responsible for managing the crisis. Do you acknowledge that you have made a management error in this file?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, over the last few days there has been a lot in the press about the remuneration that the owners of Tihange I would have to pay. The press releases are sometimes a bit confusing, because a lot of assumptions are made. In April, the owners would have paid 7.2 million euros, and according to the CREG this would be an understatement, according to its calculations it would be a few millions too little. The CREG would have informed you of this on 30 June. Although this is a confidential document, it seems that this date was known by some fellow Members. An expert should have been appointed by September 15th, and you wouldn't have. So it's a lot of assumptions and when I read all that, I frowned the eyebrows several times. For this reason, I think it is appropriate to have a topical debate on this matter today. Hopefully we will have all the answers in all transparency so that we can judge all kinds of assumptions. I shall now turn to my specific questions, and I will certainly repeat a number of questions that have already been asked by some of my fellow Members. Madam Minister, my first question concerns the fact that the CREG would have let you know that the amount paid is too little. When exactly was that reported to you? How did the CREG report that to you? How did you react to that? What steps did you take as soon as you got that document? Can you also tell us exactly what amount is to be paid according to the CREG? Can you clarify that? On the subject of the expert, Mr Nollet has tabled Article 8.3. The convention states that according to that article an expert should have been effectively appointed before 15 September. The big question is whether or not that has happened? Madam Secretary, what steps have you taken to identify this expert? I assume that a procedure precedes the designation of an expert and that selection is also an important aspect. Can you explain how the selection took place or will take place? What is the specific assignment of the expert? A question that concerns us all is what will happen if the expert is not appointed before 15 September. Is that an effective problem? To what extent is that date an explicit condition? If it turns out that too little has been paid and that the expert has been appointed too late, what means do you, as Minister, still have to recover the underpaid money? What other means could you possibly use to put that right? That money was earmarked for two not insignificant funds. Suppose we can't recover that money, what impact does this have on those two funds? What are the consequences of this? There's a lot of fuss now. Questions are asked about the exact amount to be paid. How can we ensure that this does not happen every year? How can we learn lessons from this? Madam Minister, as you can see, there are many questions, both from me and from my fellow Members. I really hope that we will be clear today and that you will give all the information in all transparency. It would be good if you would also give us a timeline of all the steps you have taken so that we can judge whether the assumptions made are correct or not. I hope that we can clarify this today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u13	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately the political year is already beginning to be very similar to the previous one. Madam Minister, you can see with us that the questions that are being asked today are far from just questions from the opposition. In the summer interviews, you paid particular attention to the opposition. I hope that you will see the matter more clearly today and note that, not only in the case of the dark green opposition, there is a broader discontent or concern about your functioning. I hope that the above will be understood and not set the trend for the next political year. After all, I would prefer to talk here in committee about the energy pact, about solutions and about security of supply rather than just another Marghem episode. Madam mistress, if you fail to act correctly, if we risk losing millions of euros by your actions, is that unwillingness or incompetence? Is that to please the operator or because of an administrative failure? I wonder what the worst thing would be: unwillingness or incompetence. I haven't quite figured it out yet. In fact, I will confine myself to the four main questions which are in line with those of the other Members. Firstly, what information did you receive from the CREG? How did you react to that? Secondly, there seems to be a new category of experts in our country, especially experts who did not have to be appointed before and after. So I don't understand your communication about the appointment of the expert. First he didn't have to be assigned and then he had to be re-appointed. Can you clarify that? Who's been assigned? How was he or she appointed? Thirdly, I am quite concerned when I read that you are talking about clarifications in the convention. Mr Wollants rightly raises the question of whether the appointment of the expert takes place within or outside the Convention. Madam Minister, I have a faint suspicion that, in order to remedy your failure to appoint the expert, you have made new concessions to the operator in a sort of annex to the convention. For the future nuclear contributions, this could, for example, undermine the role of our regulator throughout the process. I couldn't accept that. You know our criticism of this convention: it is secret and unbalanced. If it becomes clear once again that the role of the CREG is being undermined in this whole procedure, then we really have a problem. If the limited guarantee in the convention for all of us, Parliament, the taxpayer and the consumer, is taken down again, then we really have a problem. Finally, you will clarify the amounts and the millions that may be lost. I agree with Mr Dierick's question: if we have missed something, how will we recover it? I confine myself to those four questions and a call for an operation Openness: everything on the table. Mr Nollet has rightly said that we can also ask the CREG. That question has already been asked by our group, by Mr Nollet, but I think you should put everything you have on the table about the whole affair, about the whole episode. You are best able to clarify every letter you have sent and every action your cabinet has taken or has not taken from the first parliamentary question. In this way, you would do a little bit different than in the past political year. That's our call.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u14	Mr President, Madam Minister, the press indicated on Friday that the CREG would have noted in a report that the amount of €7.2 million of royalty paid by the operators for Tihange 1 was below what the state could claim. She also noted that you had a deadline of 15 September to challenge the amount paid by appointing an independent expert, which would now be exceeded. You subsequently corrected a number of elements, Madam Minister. First, by stating that at this stage, the CREG, in its confidential report, does not give the amount to which it results but analyses the different parameters and leads to different assumptions. In addition, you pointed out that an agreement had been reached with the operators to appoint an independent expert to finalize the amount to be paid for 2015. Minister, energy is an important topic for our businesses, for our citizens, for our security of supply and for the necessary energy transition. It is therefore appropriate to stick to the facts. All this obviously has nothing to do with the gesture of the last few days, which aims to conceal an implacable observation: the failure of the negotiation of the Tihange 1 royalty negotiated by the PS-cdH tandem, Di Rupo-Wathelet. Mr Wathelet promised us a return of 125 million euros a year at the time. We're a long way from it. And it's not Mr. de Lamotte's latest calculations that can adjust that. By being very optimistic, Mr de Lamotte reached a figure of 40 million. In fact, the current figure is 7 million. If you multiply this number by four, we do not reach 40 but 28. At the market level, we are in a downward trend in the price of electricity. Another element: this figure is calculated for the last quarter. It is well known that electricity consumption is higher in the last quarter and first quarter than in the second and third quarters. Minister, my questions are as follows. If I understand you correctly, in its report, the CREG does not give you a single additional amount that was to be claimed from the operators. Should it be inferred that different amounts could be obtained according to the parameters taken into account? Can you confirm the facts mentioned this weekend regarding the negotiations to determine the amount of the fee for Tihange 1 during 2015, specifically on the appointment of an expert? Do you confirm that nothing prevents the appointment of an expert once the date of September 15th has passed? Can we say today that several million euros have escaped the state? Can you explain how, of the 125 million mentioned at the time by your predecessor, we are now reaching a much lower amount paid to the State?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u15	Mr President, I was a little late in submitting my question, for which I apologise. Like many other Members of this House, I would like to see clarity today. A lot has been published in the press about the nuclear interest rate for Tihange 1. A number of versions are circulating. All my fellow Members are actually looking forward to the Minister's answer for clarity. In fact, it is about two major issues. One, the CREG report appears to have arrived at you, Madam Secretary. I understand from the various questions and through other channels that it was not possible for the CREG to calculate the exact nuclear interest rate. Therefore, the parameters of the Convention on Tihange 1 referred to are not sufficient to calculate the exact rate of interest. There appears to be a fork, which is the subject of discussion. Is that right? Is that what the CREG told you? After all, other Members of this House are asking you to amend the convention, but I did not understand it in this way. I thought that the convention itself is what it is, but that a parameter is unclear or no longer applicable and that it requires clarification or an expert. It is therefore very important to have clarity on this point. Is it the convention that needs to be adapted or is it a parameter that needs to be clarified in accordance with the convention? You will have to clarify that, Madam Secretary. That's the first part of my question. There is also the question of timing. It is best communicated as transparently as possible. I will not question you about your holiday or what you have done all summer, but it is just interesting for my fellow Members to know exactly what happened after the report came in. There is indeed the deadline of 15 September, which is stated in Article 8.3b of the Convention. Like you, I'm a lawyer. That does not seem to me to be a deadline. It's a term that's been described. If one does not get out and there is no agreement, one must appoint an expert. In itself, it does not seem to me that we will miss out on the resources. I sincerely hope so, but the question is whether it is. Is that how you see it? Will we actually be able to recover the right amount from the operator? The question is also what exactly happened on 15 September and just after 15 September? Is there an expert yet? If there is no expert yet, is there an agreement on how the expert will be appointed? What procedure will be used for this? It's about a complex calculation, so it's also very important to know what kind of expert you're aiming for? We must make sure that the appointed expert does not appear to be suspicious by any link with the operator. How will that be avoided? How can you ensure that the expert can work objectively? Can you reassure us that the expert can carry out his work quietly and that there will be transparency about the outcome?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I think everyone has been able to speak. There are many concrete, overlapping issues, Madam Minister. I think colleagues are waiting for specific answers. A term that has returned in both languages is "transparency". Several Members asked for transparency in this area, and I agree with that. I look forward to your answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your questions and for this topical debate in which I will try, as far as possible, on the basis of the elements in my possession, to be as transparent as possible. First of all, we are starting from an extension of the Tihange 1 plant which is organized by the law of December 2013. The convention we are talking about was allowed by the law amending the law of 31 January 2003 to allow the extension of Tihange 1. What does amended article 4/1 of this law say? He said: "The owners of the Tihange 1 nuclear power plant shall pay to the State, each in proportion to its undivided share and without solidarity between them, an annual fee, calculated in accordance with paragraph 2, in return for the extension of the duration of operation of the plant until 30 September 2025. The plant will have reached its fiftieth anniversary on October 1, 2025. Paragraph 2: "The annual fee referred to in paragraph 1 shall be established for the period from 1 October to 31 December 2015" – the one we are talking about now – "and for each calendar year from 2016 to 2024 and for the period from 1 January to 30 September 2025." This will then be the last fee. "It is due on April 15 of each year following the period for which it is established." A little later in the law, paragraph 3, refers to the mission of CREG: "Without prejudice to the tasks entrusted to it by the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organization of the electricity market, the Electricity and Gas Regulatory Commission is entrusted with a special task of verifying revenues and charges, referred to in paragraph 2. The owners of the Tihange 1 nuclear power plant shall provide the Commission with all the data it requires for the purposes of this verification." I will also read paragraph 5. "The State may enter into an agreement with the owners of the plant with a view to: (1) specify how each of the components of the fee referred to in paragraph 1 is to be calculated, whether there are any negative differences on the income of subsequent periods" - this is the backpack effect to which I shall refer for the following years - "and the verification of the income and expenses related to the operation of the plant; (...)." Historically, as has been recalled by Mr Nollet and Mr Calvo, there is a strong demand – I have repeated it again to the EDF operator, who is not yet in agreement to publish its entirety – for this agreement to be fully available to the public, as we have done in the context of the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 with the agreement signed between the State and the operator on 30 November 2015. At the end of a debate that took place a few months ago, you sent the text of this convention to the media, or at any rate the text of this convention and the annexes have, for the time being, been shown in the media, on the RTBF website, in the confidential framework which governs the whole convention. I myself, at your request to Parliament in plenary session, have questioned the operators who obviously hold the decision they took when signing this agreement between the parties, namely that it remains confidential, and who alone can lift this confidentiality. They all answered. The Belgian State agreed; Electrabel agreed but EDF disagreed. And it is precisely in these annexes that the parameters that are, I would say, "studyed", as the law wants, are found by the CREG. You must know – I will then immediately give you a time line – that the CREG, on the basis of the information transmitted to it by Electrabel and EDF, proposed in its report several revenue and cost options that must be combined. This can lead to a total of several different amounts in favour of the State. So there is no fixed amount that allows me to write a letter to the farmers, saying, "You owe me so much more". It is the combination of these factors – to my knowledge, there are five – that can give several different assumptions. How did the time line go? First of all, as you know and as the law requires, on 15 April 2016, Electrabel and EDF paid the State €7.2 million in a specific account that is linked to the creation of the funds provided by the law. Electrabel paid on 15 April and EDF paid on 22 April. Subsequently, CREG sent its report (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u18	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u19	EDF paid on 22 April. It's factual. I'll give you the line of factual time. So, the report dated 22 June 2016 and sent on 29 June 2016, as you said very accurately, happened to me in the cabinet, in Dutch, then in French, which is not a problem, but I say it anyway. And on July 19, there was a meeting between my firm and CREG to discuss this report and ask additional questions. Additional questions were therefore asked and answered by CREG on 11 August. When we read these answers, we found what I just said, and some of you noted, that different parameters led to different assumptions depending on their combination, and two of them were no longer published. All the concrete elements of the formula for fixing the full amount of the fee for a fiscal period, from October 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015, payable in 2016, are not, at the time I speak to you, fixed permanently. So, what did I do? We questioned each other. There is no amount on which to fix a dispute. "You paid $7.2 million and I see in a report that I could claim you $0 million, or $3 million more." 3 million being the 70% of 4.2 million. It was the two numbers that circulated. The different assumptions vary between 0 and 3 million. I sent the CREG report to the operators to ask them to react. They challenged the calculation parameters.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u20	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u21	I sent it on 13 September, as has been said. I want to be absolutely clear with you. And on Friday, September 16th, I received an answer from both Electrobel and EDF for the appointment of an expert, which is the application of the convention. To all the questions that are related, relevant, to whether or not we are within the scope of the convention, the answer is yes, because the deadline of 15 September is not a strict deadline. As you have noted, this deadline is not provided for in the law. It is planned between parties. The parties are of the view that an independent external third party must address this issue definitively, not only for the period from October 1 to December 31, 2015, but also for subsequent periods; I will return to that. We have therefore begun to develop, for the time being not necessarily in writing, guidelines for the appointment of an expert whose independence must be considered with the utmost attention. Indeed, this expert is not appointed. Frankly, I don't think I said he was. I have said that we want to act within the framework of the convention and do what it provides for, since the parties agree, that is to say appoint an expert. If the parties had not agreed, then, as provided for in Article 8, it would have been the president of the Institute of Business Reviewers who should have appointed an expert who would have worked (...) If, if the sentence reads as follows: "The parties shall appoint an independent expert who shall dispose of the disputed calculation elements for 15 September of the same year. In the absence of agreement between them, the President of the Institute of Enterprise Reviewers shall appoint an independent expert who shall dispose of the contested calculation elements."
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u22	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u23	No! In the absence of agreement between the parties, he is the president of the institute!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u24	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u25	Wait! If the parties agree, they shall appoint an expert. And since this deadline is not a strict deadline, they can do it, and that's what they do. Therefore, the parties are willing to appoint an expert who will decide the elements contained in the CREG report and who will lead to these different assumptions depending on the combination of different parameters. What does CREG say in its report, which is confidential, as has been pointed out by either party? The confidentiality of this agreement is the issue that I raised first. First, CREG indicated that it had received the calculation leading to the amount of 7.2 million in favour of the State. The CREG, in accordance with its statutory mandate, analysed the revenues and costs reported by the operators. It calculated different options for these revenues and costs. It has not set an exact amount in favour of the State beyond the $7.2 million paid by the operators. It says that the 2015 margin is not a reference amount for the future, i.e. it cannot be multiplied by four - since it is a quarter - for the future, the margin of 7.2 million which is undisputed to date with a possible supplement to be fixed by an expert and which will give the final figure for 2015. The CREG says that this is not a basis on which to calculate what would be the State in subsequent years. As you know, in subsequent years, you will have a mechanism that will impact on the margin which, in addition, is affected by a return on investment in favour of shareholders. It is only after these two deductions that 70% must return to the State funds. That is, very often, the state of affairs today. In order to answer questions about how to appoint this expert. In any event, the convention provides for the appointment of an expert if the parties agree which could lead us to do the same thing every year, but which we do not wish to do. The identity of the expert must be sought in one of the major consulting firms and avoid conflicts of interest as much as possible. In the spirit of the Convention, the expert decides on the disputed elements of calculation which are included in the report of the CREG. There are therefore two elements associated with the determination of the product of the belly and three elements associated with the operating expenses. The expert will receive the report from CREG, the elements that were provided by Electrabel and EDF, the letters that I sent to EDF and Electrabel and the convention of 12 March 2014 (especially in its annexes) that you know. All of this must be treated in a confidential manner under the terms of the Convention. I would like to make a parenthesis on this by saying that I continue to ask for access, as soon as possible, to elements of this convention, as we have done for Doel 1 and for Doel 2. In doing this work, the expert will clarify the parameters since he will have to make a decision to operationalize the elements of this convention which are subject to challenge or, in two cases, which are no longer published, which no longer exist. This is in order to avoid this happening every year and therefore give the elements that will allow, next year and following years, not to have to use an independent expert each time, which must be paid for. But that's the way the convention is built. Whether the parties agree or disagree, it will have to be paid anyway. Who will have to pay for it? The three parties to the agreement, by third parties. I continue to ask that the whole be planned. My intention is still to ask EDF that, when the expert's mission is complete, that he has acted independently and that he has given the decisive figure for the 2015 fee to be collected before 31 December 2016 and the clarification elements for the subsequent years, all the documents are known. In this way, we can see how this convention has worked and how it is built, leading to what must legitimately come back to the State as part of the counterpart to the extension of Tihange 1. Did millions go away and the state lose money? The answer is no. The three parties to the Convention have the firm intention of ensuring that the amount is determined and paid in the State funds, as provided for in the provisions of that Convention, as fair as possible. In subsequent years, will we have the same problem? The will is that, I repeat, no, since the expert will be responsible for clarifying, clarifying and doing what is decisively necessary for the convention to apply itself, with – I absolutely want to reassure – the verification of the CREG. It is clear that CREG, an independent body, will continue, as the law that I read to you at the beginning of my speech, to verify costs, revenues and expenses. Will we get as much as we planned? I say this calmly and quietly: no, unfortunately, because the projections that had been made by the negotiators at the time were based on electricity prices that were higher than those we know for now and still for a certain period of time. Moreover, as the CREG says, we cannot rely on the 2015 margin or plan it mechanically over time with a rule of three, since we will have to take into account the impact of the loads, and that they constitute a backpack that will refer from exercise to exercise. It will have an effect on the margin which, after return on investments in favour of shareholders, the State can collect 70 %. That is a fact and, as I have always said, that is why we have decided to do otherwise in the context of the extension of Doel 1 and 2, and to provide for a lump sum, which we are sure will fall into the State's coffers every 10 years, in order to be able to feed a fund dedicated to policies other than that of Tihange 1. This makes it possible to have an interesting energy fund panel, and to have the resources to spend on the energy transition. In fact, storage and new renewable energy production are covered by the Doel 1 and Doel 2 energy funds. We will be able to spend this money for the sake of these energy policies. That is how the situation is happening at present, and how we have ensured that, in a balance, which is that of the Convention, we can determine, certainly and precisely, before the end of this financial year, what is due, precisely and up to the last cent, in the context of the extension of Tihange 1. That is the spirit of this convention. But we have also taken steps to correct the problems for the years to come so that, every year, I can come before you and say: "There, the farmers have paid the same amount under the Convention. That's the same amount of money that comes back in the state coffers." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u26	Thank you very much for your answers, Minister. I will turn to the speakers and point out that we are starting the replies, which are given different times than the questions. I will therefore ask everyone to react synthetically in no more than two or three minutes, as there are nine speakers left. In addition, we have been discussing this issue for almost an hour and a half.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u27	Minister, not only are you not answering the question that everyone is asking and that everyone has asked you – why wait until September 13 to respond? - but in addition, you do not give any chronology, except by mentioning the meeting of July 19, which clearly shows that something happened and that you understood that the CREG did not validate the amount that was paid on April 15 or 19 by Electrabel and EDF. In addition, you received a letter on 11 August. All these events do not remind you of the deadline of 15 September. However, this date does not constitute a reminder of an obligation of means or, from a legal point of view, of a "time of rigour", to use your terms. This is in fact a point of support for the negotiation, which is necessary in this case for Electrabel and EDF. You came out of the agreement and gave up that power to automatically impose on both companies what the independent expert was going to judge. You have given them the right to say "no" and to negotiate other things in parallel. They are not philanthropists... Of course, in view of other issues, this amount may not appear to be the most important. Maybe they'd even better be nice to you. But in doing so, you went out of agreement and, therefore, outlawed. Indeed, the law says that the convention applies. The latter is very clear: on 15 September, the expert must have decided. And, by September 30, they must have paid the amounts. That's the convention! Madam Minister, I hope you will take the floor again to tell us exactly why you waited until 13 September. You haven't answered yet. Even though your argument would still stand, why wait until September 13 to react? This is incomprehensible and unexplained at this stage. Moreover, your argument does not stand the way. It could only hold the road if you had an agreement with them before September 15 saying, "Okay, we can change that." In this case, when the agreement is reached, we are beyond 15 September. By being beyond 15 September, the convention no longer holds and Electrabel and EDF are in a position of strength. That's not right! And we still don't know what triggers this September 13th letter. I therefore ask you, Madam Minister, to take the floor again. As for your different explanation between the 16th and the 17th, between your firm's first reaction and the second on RTL on Saturday, we still don't know what happened either. You don't say a word about it when it's fundamental. Why are you making a 180° shift? Not a word of explanation on this part. We learn, on the other hand, that the expert is still not appointed. As you realize that there is an emergency, how is it that it is still not designated? I would remind you that it must be for the 15th and that the money must be there for the 30th of September.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u28	Mr Nollet, may I ask you to conclude?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u29	Yeah, yeah, soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u30	Now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u31	Minister, I have challenged you to publish the letters exchanged with Electrabel. I ask and reiterate the need for all transparency. You're saying that, as far as the convention is concerned, we don't have EDF's agreement yet, we know that. I am not asking you today to publish the convention. I ask you today to apply transparency to the rest, where you have the power to do so. What I have asked you very clearly is to publish the letter of 13 September to Electrabel and the terms of the agreement with Electrabel, namely the two famous letters you are talking about on television, the 11 August letter which you are learning about today and which is the answer of the CREG to your request. Madam Minister, I ask you to take the floor again and tell us that you will pass on these documents, these elements. Same for any notes from your administration or firm. How is it, with all these people around you, that you waited for September 13th? Neither a word about the inter-cabinet meeting that took place yesterday and the conclusions that emerge from it! Have the colleagues who asked many questions received the answers they wanted in inter-cabinets or via their party? Minister, do you now agree to forward to the President the documents that I have asked you to apply full transparency on this issue, because you have not answered the most important questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u32	Minister, would you like to speak again now? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u33	Mr President, Madam Minister, one thing is certain: the CREG has complied with the law in everything, including deadlines. As usual, in all its files, the regulator plays its part. The problem is that the case comes to a cabinet and to the minister, who does not respond. Indeed, Madam Minister, knowing the tight deadlines of this agreement - three months to react effectively between the analysis of the CREG if there is a question about the amount paid - you take three weeks to meet with the CREG. If you only have three months, it's a long time! Then you ask questions. There is a response from CREG on August 11. I am asking not only for the report but also for the answer that the CREG has given to you in relation to your office. And then nothing! Of course, it's the holidays, but I imagine you have a daycare service unless all of your employees and yourself were on vacation and didn't get to know your emails. Then it is necessary to wait until 13 September, more than a month, before sending a letter to the operators. In doing so, Madam Minister, you are totally out of agreement. Therefore, there is negligence and fault on your part, because you completely weaken the position of the state in relation to the negotiations, as usual, Mr President! We will remember the nine months of negotiations between Doel 1 and Doel 2, after which the Prime Minister had to take them back in order to be able to reach the signing of a convention, thus demonstrating a total weakness of the State. We are used to it with these operators who feel very strong thanks to this government. Minister, you're talking about transparency. You drowned the fish, in the beginning, of transparency in relation to the Electrabel-EDF Convention, which we always ask for. You say: no transparency yet. As you play transparency, we take your word, minister. We therefore ask you for the exchange of mail and the analysis and response of the CREG. Mr. President, you can officially ask him in a moment. I still don't understand. Madam Minister, on September 16th, in a press release – it's written, you won't be able to say that we're reading wrong – you say you don't need an expert. While you wrote a letter to Electrabel and EDF on September 13. If you have it here, read it to us so we can ask you some questions. What was the content of this letter? You tell us, on 16 September, that you do not need to appoint an expert. And on the 17th, you change your mind. I don't understand what you could write to Electrabel and EDF when on the 16th you said you don't need an independent expert. You probably made a cross on the analysis of the CREG. I don't know. And then, excuse me, minister, but the convention is about an independent expert. In view of the totally chaotic management of this dossier, I very sincerely hope that you will guarantee the independence of this expert. Indeed, trust is broken regarding your attitude to two operators and to the regulator. This is not the first time you have sat down on the regulator's reports or questioned the regulator. I question your independence and independence from the appointment of an independent expert to defend primarily the interests of the State. It is the state you must defend, and not the operators, with which you make totally unfavourable agreements for the state and consumers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u34	Madam Secretary, your attitude towards the regulator, the CREG, is completely incomprehensible. It is as if those for a piece of money I will not say the enemy is the opponent and that the operators with whom you are engaged are your supporters, whereas that should be the reverse. On 22 June, the CREG informed you that there were problems with the calculation. At that time, you should have immediately ignored the CREG and asked what the CREG was based on and how the amounts were calculated. At the same time, you should have immediately contacted the operators to inform them that an expert would be appointed, knowing that this appointment should take place before the 15th. However, you did not do that. You're gonna leave everything behind. In the end, you sent a question to the CREG. The CREG responds to you almost immediately, but you leave the answer again. All the way to the end, on September 13th, a letter goes to the operators. Madam Secretary, can you tell us clearly why you waited until September 13th, when you get the first warning signal on June 22nd? That is not understandable, unless you, of course, point out that there are more and more agreements with Electrabel and EDF to solve the problem. What happens after that is even more incomprehensible. First, you say there's no need for an expert. Two days after that, you say one is needed. It is therefore completely unclear whether the expert has already been identified. Today you say that no expert has yet been identified and that you will negate the designation of an expert. The sum must be paid before 30 September, Madam Minister, even if there is a higher amount to be paid. You're just gonna leave it. You do little or nothing, and today you come to Parliament to explain that there is nothing wrong, that you will continue to defend the general interest and that you will ensure that the future sum may be recovered. Madam Secretary, I have no words for it. The way in which you have gone about the dossier and the previous files and dealt with them is du jamais vu. You state that the state will not miss any money. Madam Minister, once again you have not defended the general interest in the dossier. You are acting as Minister of EDF and Electrabel. That's an absolute disgrace.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u35	Madam Minister, thank you for some answers. Today it is clear once again what we had already stated during the previous legislature, namely that the convention was drawn up in such a way that it never gets out of it. We then tried to calculate this for a moment. Even the greatest mathematicians who were in the Chamber at the time had to lay down the ax. After all, it was a knuckle. So it's a beautiful inheritance you've been given. However, we are concerned and we must ensure that the convention works. In any case, we must ensure that we can play a shorter game and that we can deal with such matters more quickly and more quickly. I think that would have saved us some trouble. We will also have to look at the way in which we continue to deal with the Convention in the coming years. I notice that you have reported a number of cases that have occurred. On the basis of the written report, I will try to reconstruct the timeline myself, to see how we can better deal with it. After all, as I said during the previous legislature, together with some other Members, the deal that Wathelet had made is simply a bad deal. We have already calculated at that time that the millions of euros that the deal would bring would be nothing twice. If anything comes out of the deal, let us please ensure that we can at least bring in the change. In that respect, we must get everything out of the deal. It is true that if agreement is reached with the expert and there is clarity, this will have no effect. However, I would first like to know what the expert makes of the whole story, so that we can look at the direction in which it is going. The committee may have to work on the dossier in the future. We will certainly examine the report further so that we can put it next to the Convention and next to the timeline so that we can achieve the best possible result for the State and so that the means for which they were intended are put in place. That fund was set up to support offshore projects. Eventually, we didn't christen the Wathelet Fund. In any case, I think it is absolutely the intention that we should keep the costs of the offshore under control. This requires short play on the ball, it requires sound calculations and also sound information from the operator. With regard to the extended opening time, several parties are at the table. The work must therefore be thorough and decent. We are, of course, keeping in mind that operators are not trying to make additional money out of it, because that will in any case fall on a cold stone in our committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u36	Minister, I'm a little surprised by your speech because I feel like I'm at "how not to answer the questions." How can I not answer specific questions that have been raised by me and my colleagues regarding the management of this time line and the management of this file? I do learn that the expert is not appointed. But in Article 8 of the Convention we have a certain number of dates. This is the enforcement of a convention. I did not have an answer to the question of what the parties are doing if there is no agreement on the expert's report. What about the remedies? No answer either. Are they maintained or not? In any case, I see a blur that does not guarantee me that the additional money will arrive in the state's coffers. I'm a little sawed when you say in your presentation that the expert will clarify the parameters. It is not the expert's job to clarify the parameters. He or she must give notice of this amount and of the payment decision. I would like to know why you did not ask the CREG and the administration to clarify this convention. If you have asked, I would like to have a copy of the exchanges by which you requested this intervention. I think, Madam Minister, that we need to make all the transparency on the convention, but also on its implementation. It is the enforcement of the Convention that is being discussed here. The strategy that you explained to us in your speech seems risky to me. It's a risk that could make us lose money. Minister, this is about executing an agreement. A signed agreement is the result of a balance between the parties. By not applying the convention, you break the balance of your leader to the detriment of the Belgian State instead of applying it. For me, this is a serious mistake. I therefore have the greatest concerns about the implementation of the Convention. Minister, you say that the money was deposited into the CPS account in April. The Court of Auditors, at the time of the adjustment, notes that a sum of EUR 7.2 million was paid in 2016 but to an inadequate FPS account for Tihange 1 revenue for 2015. The fund that has to be dedicated to this has not yet been created, which demonstrates the mismanagement of this file. Minister, today's parliamentary year is resuming with a demonstration of your inability to manage a case in a transparent and credible manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u37	Madam Minister, your answer has indeed clarified some of the uncertainties. Actually, 7.2 million euros have been paid in. The CREG has not proposed an exact amount. No expert has yet been appointed. I have a number of questions and reservations about the latter. The procedure is now under way, but when will the expert be effectively appointed? Soon, or will that be long? If the expert has been appointed, will he receive a deadline by when to determine exactly what amount it is? If that exact amount is determined, is it still contestable by the State or by the owners, or is it then definitively fixed as the amount to be used as the amount to be paid? Also not insignificant is the cost of the expert and who will pay it. It is therefore a good thing that the procedure is running now, but it does raise some questions and I think it is important that we clarify quickly who will become the expert, when we can expect results and whether or not the amount is verifiable. You've given us a timetable. I think it's okay to explain. If I look at it objectively, I understand very well that the necessary time has to be taken to study the CREG document. It needs to be looked at, and consultations must be planned in your cabinet. Questions must also be asked. All this cannot be done overnight, which takes time. Those are logical steps. It is a pity that the period between 11 August and 13 September was too long. If it could have been done faster, the expert would have been identified and you could have made the deadline perfectly. If there are deadlines in a contract, I think it's important to get them, even if it's complicated and some say it's not a good contract. As a good housemother, I hold on to strict deadlines. Especially when it comes to revenue collection, I insist that nothing goes wrong and that the deadlines in the contract are respected. So it would have been better to appoint the expert before 15 September, because that would have led to much less discussion here, but possibly also between you and the owners of the nuclear power plants. In any case, I believe that we should learn from this. We must make every effort to recover the amount that has been tested. In future, we must avoid such discussions by setting the amount so well that no expert should be appointed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u38	I call the dark green opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u39	Madam Secretary, I am keeping my reply strongly in line with the previous replies. There is indeed a need to learn lessons from this issue, but the question is whether this lesson is in this specific dossier, or whether it is in the composition of the government and the person responsible for drawing up this difficult and sensitive dossier. Mr Wollants says that he will go through the written report again to reconstruct the timeline. Colleague, I'd like to help you with that. Normally, they had to pay before 15 April. EDF didn't do that until April 22nd. The Minister received a report from the CREG on 22 June. She held a meeting with the CREG about a month later to look at these questions. She acted a bit like... Actually, at that time she asked the questions that one would expect from the operator rather than from the cabinet. On 11 August the final response of the CREG came. And it was not until 13 September that the report was delivered to the operator. So, Madam Secretary, you waited until September 13 to deliver the report of June 22? In this way, you ensured that you act outside the convention today, a convention that is already very vulnerable and does not provide a strong position for the Belgian State. I find that really incomprehensible. I don't understand why you're waiting so long to take the steps you need to take. You now dictate to my fellow Members that we should come back to this very quickly. You say that we need to get back to this quickly, with the documents in our hands. There's already a march towards CREG. I support, for the whole of 100 percent, the question put by my fellow Members that you put your letters here on the table. I do not think that we can stop, Mr President, until the Minister makes that clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u40	I thank the Minister for her clarification, her answers and all the clarifications they have provided on everything that has been mentioned earlier. We talked a lot about transparency. It should be noted that as far as Doel 1 and 2 are concerned, as soon as the Convention has been signed, it has been made available to parliamentarians, which has not been the case for the Tihange 1 Convention. I don't think we have any lessons to learn here. I have noted that we are now awaiting the proposals of the independent expert. We're waiting for him to cut. Furthermore, we take note of your willingness to formalize the calculation of this fee, so that everything is much clearer in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u41	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. We have received an answer to a number of issues, but there is, of course, some uncertainty as to exactly what will happen in the coming weeks. Firstly, we have established that the Tihange Convention is not clear. As far as the calculation is concerned, it is very complex. It is absolutely not a gift for you to work with it, I fully understand that. However, you must now deal with this in the best possible way, in the interests of the government, the State Treasury and the fund for which we need it. I therefore hope that it will be possible to clarify quickly the manner in which the expert is appointed and the exact timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u42	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u43	I will not comment on that, colleague. The convention is what it is, and so we need to get on with it. The expert needs to get there. We're behind the timing that's stuck in that convention. So it's really time to step up. We will have follow-up work in our committee anyway, when the expert proposes his outcome. I am also left with the question of exactly how this expert will be appointed and how it will be financed. I understand that, once the result has been achieved, transparency will be achieved in committee. I believe that that will be really necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u44	Mr President, I will react on a few points. Who? Which independent expert will he be appointed with the greatest demand on the conditions that shape his independence? I asked that this be done as soon as possible. And the parties are of the opinion that we should be able to do so in the coming days. The second thing is for the expert to cut. I thus answer a question which has already been asked but which has been rested: it is the expert who decides. So there's no dispute after that. It is definitely he who takes a position on the parameters, their combination, what to choose or not, for the period from 1 October to 31 December and for the second part, the subsequent period until 2025. Who's gonna pay that expert? This time, we want to do some substantive work so that everything that must come back to the state up to the last hundred goes back to the state up to the last hundred, not only for the first period we are talking about today, but also for later periods. The three parties will pay once an expert, in order to carry out this work, which is the final work of calculating the first fee and clarifying the parameters that will allow the following fees to be calculated. This is intended to allow the convention to function on its own and to be properly controlled by the CREG which will say: "It is indeed such an amount. It is fair and payable as stipulated in the law on April 15 of each year." You will have noticed that the sums that come after are in any case affected by an interest because the parties had realized from the start – as we can see from the convention – that problems could arise. In order to close them definitively, it had been decided to ask an independent third party to close the problem and, if there was a supplement to be paid, to allocate this supplement, from 15 April to the day of payment, at an interest rate, as provided for in the Convention. So we are quite within the scope of the convention. I'll come back...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u45	Colleagues, any government response can lead to replies from colleagues. I do not want to frustrate anyone, but I insist that the replies should not exceed one minute, so that the debate can be concluded.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u46	Minister, this is really not right! Now it's clear in your game! In fact, you reverse the roles. According to the Convention, it is the CREG which makes the report and, in the event of a dispute, independent experts are appointed to decide definitively. Here, you reverse the roles, and this until 2025, not just this time. You say: an expert is appointed and he will have the power to decide from now until 2025. Of course, the CREG will be able to take a look at it afterwards. That's not right at all! I ask, Madam Minister, that you publish, that you now give us a copy of your exchanges with Electrabel. These two letters will finally allow us to see clearly. That is not right at all, Mr. President! The Minister does not respond to the transparency of her documents. I want to make it clear: what is the content on which Electrabel and EDF agreed to the appointment of an expert? There's a counterpart. I want to see that counterpart. Why didn't you, in your reply, give the elements of this consideration? On the other hand, you did clarify things. You reverse the roles. That's not acceptable! You get out of the convention, but besides, you reverse it. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait! The deal is clear now. That's what you had to pay Electrabel. This is the price you had to pay because you were not competent and able to look at and meet the deadlines. Mr President, I would like the minister to make it clear and give us the terms of the agreement with Electrabel in a written version, to give us the documents. There is enough uncertainty in this case, particularly about the role of CREG. Fortunately, she alerted the firm at the meeting and in her letter of 11 August, and probably later. Madam Minister, I absolutely cannot follow you on this. I think what you just said in your reply is more serious than the first answer you gave us earlier, which still contained some blur. That is not acceptable at all!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u47	Mr President, I think what Mr Nollet has just said is fundamental. That's what we heard in your second reply, minister. You're completely out of the law and the convention. Tomorrow, the expert you have appointed will determine the calculation until 2025. I am telling you, I have doubts about the independence of this expert since I now doubt your role in the guarantee of the State, or rather in the guarantee of the operators. You are totally outlawed, Madam Minister. The CREG, every year, it is written, keeps hands with the calculation. It is not for an expert to rewrite a convention, amend a convention or change the law. The law is still the parliament that does it. The agreement must be considered null and void. You're saying he's an expert and Electrabel rewriting the convention, and you're putting the regulator out of the game. That's what you just announced for the next few years. You say no, but that's what you're saying. Mr President, it is clear that if the minister wants to play transparency, and Mr Friart repeats it to anyone who wants to hear it, that she plays transparency: that she gives us the terms she negotiated with Electrabel and EDF on 13 September, what come to Parliament to explain the independence of her expert, because we no longer have confidence. Let her tell us that the seven and a half million and what the CREG has calculated is just for the quarter, and not for the years to come. Otherwise, it really means putting the regulator aside and, Madam Minister, putting you and the whole government out of the law. That's not acceptable!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u48	I cannot, of course, share your point of view, and I will say it very quietly. If I follow you, you'd like us to have to pay an expert every year, because there would be disputes. [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u49	Colleagues, listen to the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u50	All right, I'm quiet. I read the law, and she says the CREG is checking. So I said, in my first and second answer, that the CREG would continue to check every year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u51	Depending on what the expert will determine now? Is that it or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u52	No. If the CREG, each year, is faced with the same problem that it now has, namely, as I have explained to you, that there are five parameters of costs and revenues that are not decisively interpretable, and that allow or result in the CREG to formulate several assumptions of calculation, and fail, in its great meticulousness, by analysing the convention and its annexes, to calculate a fixed figure, each year you will have the same problem. That's the bottom line of the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u53	Will the independent expert be more capable than CREG?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u54	No. This means that the agreement, which you have voted for, is built in such a way that it is the expert appointed by the parties, if they agree to appoint it, or if they do not agree, the president of the Institute of Business Reviewers, who decides. Mr. Lachaert said it was a heavy legacy and he is right. I'm rereading the convention. No, not just for now. The convention will last until the end of the extension, since it is the emanation, permitted by the law that you have voted for. It provides, in Article 8.3, that the parties agree or, failing agreement, that the President of the Institute of Reviewers appoint an independent expert to deal with the disputed elements of calculation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u55	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u56	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u57	No, not of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u58	September 15 of the same year!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u59	What does that mean, Mr. de Lamotte? I'm listening! Do you want to have an expert to pay each year to clarify points of view, to clarify...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u60	We want to respect the balance of the convention, that is nothing but that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u61	I'm exposing it to you as it exists!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u62	I will give the floor to colleagues, but I would like the minister to finish her reasoning.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u63	I read to you the convention as it is written: "If there are elements of calculation that are contested at some point in year X, and therefore next year in year Y, and the year after in year Z, the agreement provides that the parties, by common agreement or in the absence of agreement between them, the president of the Institute of Reviewers, shall appoint an expert who will decisively decide". [[brouhaha]] I have to recognize the facts and stick to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, everyone will have the floor. We were in an answer from the minister to Ms. Lalieux.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u65	It is not indicated that "calculation elements" are contested, it is indicated "the undisputed amount of the royalty". Madam Minister, in conclusion, I will say here what is totally unacceptable with regard to a neutral regulator, financed by Parliament. You put a regulator out of the race until 2025 in relation to amounts owed by the state. This is totally unacceptable! You trust a negotiation with an expert whose independence I already question! I'd like to know how you're going to appoint him. Will it be your administration or simply your firm who will designate it? You are calling into question a regulator, who could do this exercise, compared to an independent expert negotiating with the two operators. All this with a weakened state, since you are out of time set out in the convention. Minister, I think you have chosen your side, which is not ours.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u66	Madam Minister, you could not strengthen the last words of my reply more than you have given. As Mr Nollet says, you are completely turning the roles around. In the future, you will completely outplay the regulator, the regulator that will eventually be there for all of us, including you, to see if the calculations are correct. There are several elements, I have already listed them, which clearly show that you are taking EDF/Electrabel's side. This is gonna be all right now. Several colleagues have asked how the expert will be identified, because it is of course very important that the expert can operate completely independently. We have not had an answer to that. In addition, you are now saying that the expert, as the convention requires, will not only decide for this year what the sum will be, but that the expert will determine the amount to be paid for the coming years. The CREG can take a look afterwards. Madam Secretary, I wonder if you are aware of the scope of your statements? You want to identify an expert, who will determine completely outside the CREG what the sum will be in the future. Madam Secretary, I'm really falling off my chair. Yes, we want the CREG to be able to do its job every year. Yes, if the CREG does not agree, an expert will have to be appointed each year. This expert will have to be identified in time and be independent and not, as we now suspect, an expert who is known by EDF and Electrabel. Not only do they hold the calculator for what they have to pay, they will also check themselves. Madam Secretary, congratulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u67	I'm kind of stunned, to use a term the president likes. Indeed, we are in a debate where, Madam Minister, you have not answered the question of the written amendments to the agreement and of the possibility for the operator to bring an action against arbitration. Since we are out of agreement and no agreement has been reached on the appointment of the expert, can the IRE (Institute of Business Reviewers) still or will it commit itself to appointing one? You're entering a legal no man's land that doesn't reassure us at all. In addition, when you refer to the clarification of the parameters, we ask you to exchange mail with the CREG: no answer; with the administration: no answer. With regard to the letter of the amendment relating to this appointment of the expert: no reply. Has CREG ever proposed clarifications of parameters? No answer. It's getting boring! All the more so because by applying the convention in this way, you are breaking the balance between the operators and the State. I am stunned by this way of acting that leads us out of the law. I appeal to the parties of the majority. We are in the process of completely turning back the assembly that had been drawn up in accordance with the interests of the State. Do you support this approach?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, when we asked questions in committee about the law, the convention and the interpretation of the parameters, to which we added, or whether they were clear and clear, a great many of the people present today who were present at the time were silently shrouded. Mr Wathelet then said that there was no problem and that everything would become clear when the convention was read. Today I can't hear him anymore; I hear today that the convention is a mess, with a signature underneath it. We have to deal with that today. That's our role. It is also important that we regulate everything properly, in a stable and clear manner. There's a certain balance in it. It is important that the CREG continues to play its role as a regulator. It is also important that it remains a workable story. If we are to see that every year everything is tested again, because wrong or unclear parameters are used in the convention, then we must find a solution. Does that mean we're outside the convention? Probably part of it. But if the convention is not workable, then a solution must be found. It must be a solution for which we do not pass twice by the cash register, because then we are effectively on the wrong track. So I am absolutely in favour of continuing to work with the CREG, but in the dossier we are now facing, an expert is absolutely necessary in order to provide some clarity in the short term. However, it is not quite clear to me how this expert is appointed precisely and specifically and how we can deal with it in the right way. Ladies and gentlemen, we will probably come back to this in the coming weeks, when we will have more information and have been able to read the matter thoroughly. It's an important matter for me. It's been ten years for us. We must therefore be able to regulate them properly, with input from everyone, so that there is a balance. That is a different way of working than shouting and blaming again. It just needs to be clear and well arranged. Everyone has to take responsibility for that. We have to go down that road now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u69	I would like to support Mr Wollants' appeal. Mrs Marghem, you have been involved in politics for long enough to know that if Members of the majority are speaking in this way, there really is a problem. I think that makes sense, too. After all, the signal you have given today is that if the CREG is difficult, it is not a problem. The operator then contests the conclusions and then together we designate an expert. If you proceed in this way, you will completely outplay the regulator. We cannot accept that. I hope that goes beyond the limits of majority and opposition. I am looking at Mr Lachaert, someone who is well-founded when it comes to liberalism. A free market needs a regulator who must be able to work. We cannot afford to knock that regulator down at the first best discussion, and then take it out for ten years. If we do that, we'll only create more misery. So I don't think we can do that. Madam Secretary, we will not be able to finish the discussion today. I think it's best if we decide two things together. First and foremost, we must get those documents and, second, we must agree here on the mandate and mandate of that expert. If the law is rewritten, if the convention is reinterpreted, if we're working outside the convention, then we have to agree to it here. Surely we will not give Mrs Marghem a carte blanche, that expert but until 2025 and take over that role from the CREG? Mr President, I would not have to be that in the very short term, even next week, as far as I am concerned, tomorrow may wish to do so together. We need to discuss those documents, which look at the Minister's démarches in all transparency and the mandate of that expert. That expert's mandate cannot be to replace the regulator. That is my proposal, so that we can get ahead of the dossier in that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u70	Mr President, the point that can be made here as a result of our exchange is that this convention has been poorly negotiated, that it is not clear and that it is far from reporting what was originally planned. Therefore, if improvements can be advanced for the future, be they under the eye of CREG, which must continue to play its pre-eminent role.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u71	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I take note of what Mr Calvo has said. No one, certainly not us. I have not heard the Minister explain this either. I want to undress the role of the CREG. That's not the point. Two debates are mixed together. There is, on the one hand, the debate on the contribution for the last quarter of 2015. There are many questions about timing and transparency. We've had that series. I too have asked my questions about this. I hope to have further clarification on this. What the Minister wants to do, however, is to raise a second problem, which the CREG has also pointed out. The CREG has, I understand, indicated that it has to count within a fork. It cannot calculate an exact amount, as at least one parameter from the annexes to the convention can no longer be applied. That way the CREG can't do its job. That must be restored. We all want to restore the role of the CREG. She should also be able to play her role, which means that one parameter or at least one parameter, of which I know, needs to be replaced, because the parameter no longer exists. So he needs to be replaced. For this purpose, a clause is included in the Convention under point 16.3 which provides that, if an indication no longer exists, it may be replaced by another. So there are two mixed debates. There is the first debate on the last quarter of 2015 and the contribution in this respect, to be decided by an expert in accordance with the Convention. There is the second debate, in which I have heard the Minister make a piste. That is that a solution must be found for the coming years. In the other case, we will have the same debate year after year on the parameters that cannot be applied anymore. I understand. It is not my intention to discuss the same parameter year after year and not to allow the CREG to do its job. In the second part of the debate, therefore, we actually share the same interests. After all, everyone wants the CREG to be able to do its job. This means, however, that the convention will have to be adapted or clarified and that the parameters that can no longer be applied will have to be replaced by other parameters. It's interesting to know how that's gonna happen. Will that be part of the expert's mission or will we arrange it in a different way?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u72	As a member of the majority, ask the minister for the documents to be sent to you because she does not answer me when I ask her about the parameters of the CREG.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u73	We shall return to that point. When we have finished the turn of the lines, I will make a small conclusion because I think that we must close this point. Mr Nollet, you can reply briefly as agreed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u74	Minister, I understand better why you do not want to publish the terms of the agreement with Electrabel and EDF because, now, we have understood the deal, the content. It's about bypassing the CREG and putting it out of the game. You say "no," Mr. Lachaert. She explained why!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u75	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u76	Publish the mails and then we'll see!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u77	Read the convention!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u78	Mr President, I believe that colleagues will react to what the minister has just said! Today, we finally realized that the CREG was out of play. The independent expert takes his place. This is unacceptable to us and we understand better why she does not want to publish the terms of the exchanges she had with Electrabel and EDF. If she were so comfortable, she'd publish them. She'd give us a copy. Earlier, we referred to transparency. In this case, it is enough that it takes responsibility, that it applies that transparency, in which you also plead, that it publishes the letters and we will see what is happening! Do you agree with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, today we devoted 2:15 a.m. to a debate on the subject. If it was useful, it is not closed. It is understood that there are proposals on both sides to continue. I am open to the possibility that, in a thoughtful form, we may return to the file. I will not improvise on how to do it. [[On the other hand, I have heard of the wish to obtain the CREG report.]] Therefore, I will add my voice to those who request it and I intend to refer it to the Speaker of the House to solicit it. That's for the CREG report! There's a request for documents. The minister heard her. We can talk about it again and look at how to get back. The question was clearly asked. I have not heard a formal reply on this matter. We'll talk about it again. The question was asked with insistence. I think we need to go back to this issue, but I suggest that you close this topical debate now. This is not a definitive conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u80	Mr President, if the minister has them, let her pass them on now!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u81	I think the current affairs debate is ending here. We won't go any further now. We have heard what has been said and repeated with insistence. The question was asked. I have not heard the reply on the availability of those documents. I propose that we return to the debate in a thoughtful way with the various parties. We'll see how we can do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u82	We'll ask Mr. Charles Michel.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u83	If it is difficult to obtain the documents, I still hope that we will be able to reach agreement on the follow-up, in this committee, on the expert's mandate, and that we will invite the CREG. I don't want to talk about CREG. If the CREG has any concerns about the M.O. today, I want to hear them. The best way to formulate the mandate is to organise a meeting with the CREG within a short time to examine the remit of the CREG and the expert, and to discuss it with each other openly. I believe that we can reach an agreement on what we are going to do to ensure that things do not go smoothly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u84	Mr Calvo, as I said, I am prepared to follow up on this debate. I will take an initiative on this. Let's talk about it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u85	As regards the continuation of our work, we have an agreement with the Minister to postpone the issues originally scheduled this morning to Tuesday, 4 October, at 10.15 a.m. However, today we will still deal with the joint questions raised by Mrs Lanjri and Mr Raskin under item 3 of our agenda. Question No 9668 by Mr Flahaux is transformed into a written question. Question No 12293 by Mr Senesael will be dealt with in the Committee on Public Health. The remaining questions are deferred.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u86	Mr President, Minister, since 1999, together with the liberalisation of the energy market, a system of residentially protected customers has also been established, allowing a social tariff for gas and electricity. In 2007, it was therefore decided to always give people with disabilities the right to that status. Since 2009, there has also been an automatic allocation in principle, but in practice it has only been applied from the decision of the Directorate-General for Persons with Disabilities. For an average family with two children, based on the prices of the cheapest supplier, the social rate can make a difference of about 270 euros per year. For this reason, the Ombudsman has made a recommendation on this issue in his annual report for more than three years. In 2012, he made a first recommendation that, in the case of retroactive granting of the allowance to persons with disabilities, the rightholder should not receive the social tariff from the moment of the decision on his disability but from the moment when he is entitled to the social tariff. This automatic award proved to be a very complex matter. That is why the ombudsmen proposed a kind of compromise in 2012. They suggested that the Directorate-General for Persons with Disabilities should issue paper certificates to persons with disabilities who would receive a concession so that they could deliver it to their supplier and apply for the application of the social tariff, with retroactive effect. Until now, however, this problem has not been solved, although there has been consultation with your administration, with the General Directorate for Energy and with the FPS Economy. In principle, the right to the social tariff should not depend on the speed of operation of the administration. Sometimes the counter argument is used that the system contains a waste at the end of the chain, because the social tariff is granted immediately for a full year, which sometimes leads to a little more at the end. The most important argument, however, is that people who need the social tariff have been unable to make use of it for years. At first they get less than what they are entitled to, because they only get the social rate when it is decided that they have a disability. However, the Directorate-General for Persons with Disabilities decides with retroactive effect to recognise a disability. That could be retroactive for two years. It would therefore be logical that the social tariff should also be granted retroactively. That's why I'm asking the question again. The federal ombudsmen have served with your administration. In order to overcome the deadlock, they have formulated the compromise proposal to maintain the current system of automatic application from the quarter of the decision, pending the adjustment of the automatic application, to which we are of course still committed, but also to ensure that the final customer or the customer can request the retroactive application of the social tariff from the date on which the decision was taken. He could then ask for this on the basis of the paper certificates he receives from the Directorate-General for Persons with Disabilities. That is actually the compromise proposal that has been formulated. I assume that's what your administration got. Can you tell me why it has still not been applied? What are the difficulties there? How will you unblock that? After all, I assume that you also support the principle that people should be able to exhaust their rights and that certainly the weakest in our society, people with disabilities, if it turns out that they have this disability and that those who have had it for two years, for example, should be able to benefit from that social tariff for two years and not just from the moment when a decision has been taken. This is actually due to the government, because sometimes it takes a long time for a decision to be taken. If that decision had been taken earlier or immediately, those people would have been able to benefit from that social tariff for two years. So it's not an extra cost, it's just the principle that the government doesn't manage to do it automatically from the moment someone is entitled to it. I would have liked to have heard from you how you intend to solve this problem and whether you can at least agree to the Ombudsman's proposal, which is a compromise to do this on a temporary basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u87	Madam Minister, I refer to the Federal Ombudsman's annual report, which raises a number of complaints about the social rate for people with disabilities. Some target groups are granted retrospective concessions, but they do not enjoy the same retroactivity of the resulting right to the social tariff. That's the problem. I questioned your colleague, Mr Sleurs, about this. She pointed out the responsibility of FOD Economy. I now come to you, Minister, but I assume you will also pass on the question to your colleague. How do you intend to comply with the recommendation of the Federal Ombudsman? Within what time do you see an effective solution to that problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions, which have already been put to me by other members of the committee. Moreover, our President had this file in charge when he was Secretary of State. I would like to make it very clear that the current legal framework does not justify retroactive application of the social tariff as proposed by the Federal Ombudsman in his recommendation. This position is legally justified. Even in neighbouring countries, no retroactive application is foreseen. I also refer to the social tariff for water, which is based solely on the situation on 1 January, while for energy it is based on a quarterly basis – which is more favourable. Notwithstanding these legal aspects, my administration has endeavoured to formulate a proposal to respond to the grievances of the Federal Ombudsman. It has no relation to the legal framework for social tariffs. In summary, I proposed to pay a supplement to the social benefit, which would have constituted compensation for the delay in processing the file with the Social Security - Disability DG FPS, which you mentioned earlier. During this period, therefore, the beneficiary did not receive the social rate. However, the Federal Ombudsman did not respond to this proposal. That's why this one didn't get any follow-up. In order to avoid any misunderstanding, because I want to be very clear on this sensitive issue, the legal and operational implementation of such a proposal, as Mr Raskin has already felt a little bit, falls within the competence of the SPF Social Security since this supplement would be included in the social benefits. In addition to my reply, I would like to inform you that in a few weeks' time I will present a scheme which extends the benefit of the social gas tariff to tenants of social and assimilated real estate agencies, beneficiaries who were abnormally included in certain circumstances since they did not have individual meters. More than 1,800 households will therefore be affected by this extension. That is what is possible in my skills. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u89	Madam Minister, thank you for the answer, including for the last element, which is new. That is a good thing. I have not understood correctly whether the compensation you provide is a preliminaries to the allowance for persons with disabilities or whether it is an additional concession from your department?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u90	The proposal is that it would be a supplement to the social benefit. But this supplement would be integrated into the framework of social benefits and therefore does not fall within my competence. In response to the Ombudsman, I made a proposal, but on the one hand, the Ombudsman has not yet responded and, on the other hand, if it is to be implemented, it is not within my competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u91	Madam Secretary, if I understand you correctly, you want to increase the benefits, which is actually already happening. After all, at the time when a person is recognised as a person with disabilities, he also receives the benefit of the period before recognition. He's already getting that benefit. What we are proposing now and what the logic itself would be is that the same thing would be done for the social tariff. If it is established that the person concerned should actually be recognised as a disabled person, which in one case must have happened a year ago, and in the other case for two years, that will not be solved with the solution you are proposing. He has, if necessary, missed the social tariff for two years, if I understand this correctly. It is therefore not an argument that neighbouring countries do not. Perhaps the neighbouring countries will be quicker in dealing with or granting the decision on a person's disability. In that case, the social tariff will not be missed either. Perhaps there should also be thought, Madam Minister, of bringing legislation into line. You say that you follow the rules and that the legislation currently does not allow this to be applied retroactively. You can change the legislation in this area yourself or Parliament can come up with a proposal for an adaptation. It is, after all, a question of those who, if the decision had been taken earlier, would have received the social tariff and now miss it. I think it is good that you are trying to think constructively, Madam Secretary, and that you want to see what you can do. I like that. I hope that your services will be able to discuss further with the Ombudsman. Where appropriate, the dossier may also be presented orally. However, I do not think the solution you are proposing is the right one. Maybe I see it wrong, but I do not think that the problem has yet been solved because people can still miss the social rate for one or two years. This is all the more true because benefits for people with disabilities are already low. I therefore think that it is only logical that they should be given retrospective what they are entitled to. In your fields of competence, rights should also be granted retroactively. I understand that you say that this is not possible at the moment, because it is not legally permitted yet. However, the laws may be amended if necessary or if an adjustment is justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u92	Madam Secretary, I would like to join my colleague's reply. The answer is not quite clear to me. Are the social benefits you are talking about not the benefits that are paid retroactively, which we are calling for? Or is it a surplus to compensate for this? It's not clear to me. I wonder whether social benefits are legally possible or not. I agree with Mrs Lanjri. If we find that the current legislation is not sufficient to address the problem, perhaps we should look at it again. In 2016 it should be possible to match some data from one administration electronically with that from another administration. I would add that the ombudsmen's proposal is very constructive and that the end result they have in mind is very noble. We all support that. I believe that the problem needs to be solved electronically. Paper costs extra money and demands administrative efforts from people with disabilities. In 2016 we must be able to adapt the current legislation in such a way as to create an efficient way of working that meets the needs of that specific target group.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u93	Madam Secretary, I would like to make another suggestion about the way in which we work. Surely it should be possible to answer questions from Flemish colleagues at least partially in Dutch? I know you can read the answer perfectly. It is a question of organisation with your employees and administration; from a linguistic point of view that would be better.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u94	Mr President, you are absolutely right. For these two questions, which are practically similar, I had an answer in French and an answer in Dutch but which do not overlap. I propose to be more direct...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u95	It must of course be the same answer in the two languages.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u96	I choose the answer that most meets my expectations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u97	I'm going to be more direct. I propose that the question be taken up at the next sitting, if that is acceptable to you. Or I will send you in writing the content of the other reply in Dutch, which is much longer since it takes over the whole legislation from A to Z.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u98	This must be the same answer in terms of content.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u99	It's not exactly the same, so I'm going to attach the two answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u100	It's a matter of courtesy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u101	Mr President, I will make a joint reply to the two Members in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-20-54-commissie-ic488x.u102	Perfect.
