ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon we received a question from Mr. Van de Velde – who is not present – on the subject we are dealing with today. The minister's co-worker tells me she didn't get it. I ask you to try to comply with the Rules of Procedure, otherwise questions will be tabled until the last minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u2	Mr Van de Velde's question was not intended to join this afternoon's debate but in the next session of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u3	His question will therefore be added to the questions of the session following the Carnival holidays, namely that of February 17, 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u4	Madam President, an informative question. If we are discussing the discussions on the Brussels GEN this afternoon, can we join in if we have not tabled a question?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u5	Depends. I can put this question to the committee if a member requests it. There are three inquiries and several questions on the agenda. I can submit your proposal, Mrs. Temmerman. Almost all parties have asked a question. Mr. Geerts can't come. Do we make a mini-debate or do we stick to the program? This question put by Mrs Temmerman is open. I would point out that in the case of a mini-debate, the hearings are held, but all groups can take five minutes. It is up to the committee to decide the order of business. The minister does not seem to be concerned about the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u6	I have a pragmatic question: what would be the order of speakers in a mini-debate? I'm the first registrant and I want to stay that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u7	If we organize a mini-debate, the inquiries will remain and we will follow the order of speech. Mr Geerts is simply absent today and it is up to the committee to decide whether Mrs Temmerman can speak in her place. [[Sentiment]] We will have a question-and-answer session on 17 February in the afternoon. On 16 February, our committee will receive Mr. From Croo in the afternoon, for two bills concerning the retention of information and open data.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u8	Madam President, as regards the order of business, we have received the Court of Auditors' very interesting audit of management contracts. When can we discuss it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u9	It's programmed. We anticipate your wishes, Mr. Cheron. The report of the Court of Auditors will be discussed on 23 February in the afternoon with the Court of Auditors Subcommittee. I have already agreed with its President, Mr. Van Biesen. The Minister will be present as well as representatives of the Court of Auditors and CEOs or their representatives. This debate promises to be interesting!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u10	Thank you, Mr. President, and congratulations on your promotion. I don't know if it'll be sustainable, but at least it's a beautiful first step. [[Laughs]] Madam Minister, in a slightly more serious way, I wanted to ask you about the ER and, above all, the progress of this network around Brussels. Initially, this project was called the ‘Star 21 Plan'. It was in 1989. It took many years for there to be concrete results through an agreement signed between the federal state and the different regions. Work began in 2004. I would like to stress the mobility issue of the RER because we are in an area called the suburban area around Brussels. Other news related to congestion problems in tunnels shows the interest of this mobility issue around Brussels. 350 000 commuters, still too much use of cars: 62% by car - 26% by train within a radius of about 30 kilometres around Brussels. The interest of the RER is obviously the robustness of a network with a four-lane setting and a speed of 15 minutes. The interest is the pace, the four-tracking on all the lines that were planned in this RER project. So I am talking about the 'infrastructure' part, the tracks used by trains, and the other issue of the RER is the question of its operation, the use of rolling stock and the link to what you and SNCB have chosen to call the'suburban' or the S-Bahn which comes to us from a more exotic country in terms of mobility than Belgium. The choice of the S means, in my view, that one wants to gradually change the concept; one abandons a concept somewhat devalued by its delays, that is, the RER. We are moving towards a new concept; everything must change so that nothing changes, it is a fairly well-known formula. We're making a new presentation, a beautiful logo. There's a small hit with the Josaphat-Schuman tunnel that was collateral victim of level 3 or 4. This tunnel will therefore not open until April of this year, which is a key element of the project. Today's comment relates to the fact that, since 23 January 2016, the scenarios identified in the SNCB and Infrabel Governing Committees have fallen into the public domain. I will be very specific in my questions. Also, you imagine that I also expect very precise answers. See, Mr President, how optimistic I am! The question of the scenarios developed by Infrabel and SNCB is very simple. They abandon, on line 124, any extension of the four-lane set-up. Living in Nivelles, I see him every day. Their scenario is clearly the cessation of any additional four-tracking. For line 161, for a certain part, the four-tracking is still envisaged but on the Dutch-speaking part. For the rest, on the other hand, the four-tracking is stopped, except in Ottignies which, if I am not mistaken, is the second station in Wallonia in terms of daily commuters. Minister, do you confirm that these scenarios are on the table? That is an essential question. I will try to be relatively precise about the figures. When you talk about EUR 112 million, that's about the current state of the RER fund. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not lose in the figures because it is a dangerous exercise. But it is well known that in the area of RER, even more so than in other areas, it is necessary to distinguish what remains in the RER fund from the allocations from the Mobility SPF, which are programmed and which can be detailed each year. Moreover, there is also the question of the 60/40 key and the maintenance of much needed capacities (parkings and stations). According to the scenarios developed and communicated to us by Infrabel and SNCB, there is indeed a question of stopping the additional four-lane roll-out, a restricted four-lane roll-out on line 161, and a little of maintaining capacity and reception at stations. For the rest, nothing is foreseen in terms of four-tracking. This is indeed a working hypothesis of SNCB and Infrabel which decided to stop the RER project on lines 124 and 161. On the other hand, I note that the four-lane rollover of the other lines is almost complete with the exception of line 50A for which work will be completed in 2017. Still, the situation deserves me to question you. Madam Minister, can you, if not reassure me, at any rate remove any ambiguity in this matter and confirm to me that there are many scenarios of this kind? After I filed my inquiry, I read about an article in a newspaper that was published this weekend. You're always moved when a newspaper appears, including on the weekend, and you can read and understand it. But let's go back to the subject we're interested in. When, in this article, you declare "that we will finish with 112 million RER", I suppose you mean that you accept the scenarios of Infrabel and SNCB, which implies a complete stop of the four-lane set-up of line 124 and a partial stop of this four-lane set-up of line 161. The question then arises as to what can be done, in the current state of the four-way or two-way infrastructure, of this rolling stock, a number of which have been purchased from the perspective of the RER network, because it is better suited. Here we discussed the issue of the height of the wharfs. These trainsets are better adapted and work a bit like those on the subway. These are 95 Desiro trainsets acquired for M1 motors for the RER. So I come to the problem of the S offer with some figures put forward by the SNCB and by yourself. Thus, for the most part, there is talk of a 60% increase in S supply in 2015-16, which is expected to reach more than 92%. In fact, I wonder about the ability of the North-Midi junction to cash this. The absence of the four lanes at certain locations and other problems arise, including the purchase of rolling stock. Madam Minister, you could reassure us today and tell us that you will not give up, that this government has understood the essential question of mobility in the heart of the country, towards and in Brussels, and the strategic interest of rail in a modal shift. You could express a strong political will, including in budgetary choices – you have budgetary control in March – to confirm this strategic priority with a budgetary decision that makes possible the resumption of the project, or rather the abandonment of the scenarios of Infrabel and SNCB, and gives them opportunities to return to the main part of the file, namely the four-tracking of the whole RER network. The infrastructure must have the capacity, what is called the network's robustness, to return to a much needed pace for commuters and to attract, I always say here, new users. Minister, are you going to make this political gesture and this request to the government? You have talked a lot about the Rail Investment Unit (CIF), which has yet to be amended, as I understand it, in order for the Regions to be present. Compared to pre-financing, in the Convention, the federal state obviously plays its full role, but the Regions also have rail priorities, which is very good. Wallonia offered to make available EUR 200 million for discussion with the federal government, which were planned for the pre-financing of the Gosselies station. Will you come with this text creating the Rail Investment Unit (CIF)? Do we have the hope that there will be a surge on the part of the federal government, in partnership and coordination with the Regions, to ensure that the bad scenarios we discovered in the press a few days ago are reversed and that we find a real strategic goal strong for the ER?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u11	As you know, the Rules of Procedure require different speaking times for questions and inquiries. Mr. Cheron exceeded his time by one minute. I give the floor to Mrs Lalieux for three minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u12	Minister, at a meeting of the Infrastructure Committee held on 21 January 2015, you said and repeated: "I would really like to reassure you all. Yesterday, at a meeting between Infrabel, SNCB and my firm on the work of the ER, the date of 2025 was confirmed." How we would like to hear these words again today! Brussels literally dies under the cars and has the sad reputation of being the world champion of traffic jams. It is also regularly pointed out by the European Commission for the poor quality of its air. You also know that the Central Economic Council, together with employers and trade unions, came to this place fifteen days ago to remind us that the highest priority was the RER, both in terms of economic development and competitiveness, because workers need it fundamentally. In addition, your government has withdrawn €2.5 billion from SNCB. You ask him, however, to provide the same services, which seems totally impossible, both for them and for us. We need to know where the priorities are. For our part, they are in public transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u13	So my questions are as follows. Will the infrastructure work related to the RSP continue in the coming months? If not, what are the specific reasons for this abandonment? I'm going back to the numbers we were able to read in L'Echo this weekend. You say that the 100 million euros remaining in the RER fund are "largely sufficient to complete all the work of the stations and parking lots on line 124 and to continue all the work on the line from Ottignies to Brussels". The technicians decided that line 161 should not be set to four lanes. In the multi-year investment plan 2013-2025, which has not yet been amended since the cell has not yet completed its work, it was indicated that there was still a need for 362 million for line 161, 518 million for line 124 and 130 million for line 50A. So there were over 800 million and you have a little over a hundred million left depending on the calculations and the invoices that have not yet been honoured...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u14	Mrs Lalieux, your time has expired!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u15	Madam Chair, wait, I'm finishing my questions! Infrabel says today that he will use the remainder of the RER not to put line 124 on four tracks but to do track maintenance work, especially for the catenaries. So there would be only one way for these people! Minister, you are saying that the RSP fund could be funded by the federal government, but you know that there is respect for the 60/40 key. Are you going to say that, to finish the RER, the 60/40 key is not legitimate and that it must go further to Wallonia? The other questions will be put by my colleague Crusnière.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u16	Mrs Lalieux, your speaking time has been 4 minutes 20!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u17	Minister, I will not go back to all the issues in terms of mobility, environment and health. I am thinking not only of Walloon and Flemish commuters, whose quality of life is an important criterion in terms of professional travel, but also in Brussels – given the mobility problems in the capital. I would like to return with you to two important aspects. This will first be the question of time. We know that the RER project has fallen behind – that is the least we can say. Secondly, I will address the question of the type of ER, which seems to me to be at the heart of the current debate as it is the subject of sudden changes. You know that work started over ten years ago. The initial tempo was already slow. Today, the timing is still not kept. This is partly due to the appeals that have been filed and to the licensing problems. At the same time, the budgetary challenge is essential. Moreover, I can only note that, as the appropriate minister, and on the basis of the preparation of the 2016 budget, you indicated on 9 November at Infrabel that, on lines 124 and 161 of the RER to Nivelles and Ottignies, no new construction site would start in Wallonia. It's even more problematic when I read your interview in L'Echo this weekend. Based on the documents relating to the 2013-2025 PPI, it appears that €722.9 million will be needed to complete all the RER projects on the lines towards Ottignies and Nivelles. This picture is very clear. You said in this interview: "It is only a budget of 126 million that will be necessary". We may rejoice, but that is where the trap lies. Indeed, this money will be destined for a completely re-styled RER in the sauce of Minister Galant, if I may. To build a RER, what does it take? Equipment and infrastructure. It is, first and foremost, a high rate and frequency offer for commuters. The aim is to operate six trains per hour. As far as equipment is concerned, I know that SNCB recently ordered 440 two-storey cars for €1.3 billion. So, obviously, this part is in progress. On the other hand, the infrastructure component is problematic. It was agreed, through a cooperation agreement of 2003 which has the force of law, to set up four channels. This weekend, however, I have read your statements that confirm the assumptions that are circulating regarding the collaboration between SNCB and Infrabel. You start by saying that there is no problem and that the RER will be completed in a pot-spoofing stroke. The engineers claimed that the two tracks would be of no concern. Yet, for ten years, they have believed that four paths are indispensable. Minister, permits were not granted for pleasure. A true RER absolutely requires the setting up of four lanes towards Nivelles and Ottignies. I come to my questions. While the RER has almost been completed in Flanders, does its Walloon equivalent remain a strategic priority for this government? Do you want to set up an authentic RER or a bogus RER – that is, two ways? It is in this second sense that you have spoken this weekend. The actual RER requires four lanes and must offer a high frequency for commuters. Finally, a will was expressed to the left and to the right so that the relevant levels of power would get around the table and quickly seek an operational solution. The Executive Committee of the Ministers of Mobility, which must meet regularly, has not, to my knowledge, done so for some time. Minister, are you going to summon him? Why didn't you deal with this case earlier? I defend only one priority: that of commuters. We must move forward and offer an RER worthy of this name for the greatest benefit of all our citizens, in order to solve the mobility problems in Brussels and its periphery.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u18	Madam President, many things have already been said. So I'll spare you my introduction. Madam Minister, in your policy statement you mentioned the accelerated introduction of the GEN. I quote: "The accelerated introduction of a full offer on the Regional Expressnet from, to, in and around Brussels." According to the media, the fund of lines 124 and 161 contains 115 million euros. Infrabel and SNCB, however, point out that more than 190 million is needed. In the past, Mr Geerts has already asked questions about the increase in the cost of the GEN works and about the additional delay in these works. The cost of completion would now be half a billion higher. There is also an urgent need for money to feed the GEN fund. You replied to his question that the works will be completed by 2025 at the latest, but that the multiannual plan for the financing of the GEN-Brussels was renegotiated. Line 161 is a heavily saturated line during rush hours, you know that. That greatly affects punctuality. In the case of the least incident, delays are created that affect the north-south connection. Moreover, Infrabel's latest punctuality report shows that the punctuality on line 161, the Brussels-Namen line, during the morning rush is 66,8 % and during the evening pits is 82 %. That is precisely why it was decided to go from two to four tracks. A large part of the works on line 161 would have already been completed, in particular the tunnels, bridges, parking areas at the stations, platforms and so on. Outside the overhead line and the tracks, everything would be ready for operational operation. For line 124, major investments still have to be made. Some projects have already started. However, without a continuation, they will never become operational. Let me give you an example of Linkebeek station. This is particularly disturbing, Madam Secretary. A lot of work has already been done, but now there seems to be too little money for completion. Hence my questions. Firstly, is it true that the works on lines 161 and 124 will be stopped for four years, without any prospect that they will be resumed in 2019? The latter is important. Secondly, what is the reason for this decision? Thirdly, what needs to be done in order to complete the works? Fourthly, how much is missing from the GEN fund to be able to complete these works? Fifth and finally, what about the objectives and your policy statement to speed up the implementation of the GEN? I hope I do not have to convince you that, given the situation of mobility in and around Brussels, the completion of the GEN project is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u19	Madam President, I have already spoken on this subject several times. Already on 6 January, you acknowledged that the cost of completing the regional express network would be EUR 965 million and that the balance of the RER fund was only EUR 460 million. However, at the Committee on Infrastructure on 21 January, I would like to ask you again about the progress of the work and the budgetary choices made to fill this funding gap. This deficit already made it very risky to finalize the completion of these two lines. You were responding in a way that was unequivocal. You said: "I would really like to reassure you all. Yesterday, at a meeting between Infrabel, SNCB and my firm on the work of the ER, the date of 2025 was confirmed." It must be admitted, however, that the communication of the suspension of work revives the fear, too often mentioned, of a pure and simple end to these works, which are strategic, both in terms of mobility and employment, for Wallonia. It would definitely bury the hopes of tens of thousands of commuters who hoped that finally the rail supply to the capital would be expanded, facilitating access to the capital and operating a road congestion reduction. It is time to make a clear, coherent and certain speech. Do you still consider that the 2025 deadline, which you had announced as certain, will be respected to complete the work on lines 124 and 161 in their initial projects? I mean, like the other speakers, not with a discount formula, but with a four-track set-up. Could you, in view of the legitimate concerns of rail users, let us know what your method and tools will be to solicit this consultation between federated entities so that a lasting solution can emerge in this case? Do you confirm that the development of RER lines towards Wallonia remains the first in the hierarchy of your priorities? What are the preferred ways to finance these investments in a sustainable manner? Perhaps it is time to look at funding from Europe as well. If you confirm the delays in carrying out the project, have you already evaluated the incremental costs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u20	Madam President, Minister, I would also like to ask you about the work of the RSP on lines 161 and 124. As you know, the Walloon Brabanons are worried, not just the Walloon Brabanons, since you know better than anyone else that the Ottignies train station is the busiest station in Wallonia. However, several noises have been heard that the RER fund would not be able to complete the planned work on lines 161 and 124. There are several hypotheses. Numbers are circulating. We are told that the fund would consist of only 115 million, while the work, and I am of course talking about the four-tracking, the maintenance of the infrastructure, would cost 800 million euros. Minister, since I know you're the number specialist, I would like to know the real numbers today. As you know, the Walloon Brabant has been waiting for the RER for far too long. Incessant postponements will result only in the disaffection of the train among commuters. This would be catastrophic given COP21 commitments and congestion projections by 2030. Abandoning the RER in Walloon Brabant is not and should not be an option. It is essential that the whole of the planned work, and I insist on the whole of the work, and I am of course thinking of the four-tracking, be completed as soon as possible. Minister, given the state of the ER fund, as some have mentioned, is there a risk that the work will be stopped for four years? Can you assure us that the work will be completed as planned? You have also heard Minister Magnette's proposal to offer EUR 200 million. I'd like to hear from you about that. It also proves that this remains a priority for the Walloon government. I must also say that every effort has been made to complete the mobility offer in Walloon Brabant, since the TEC is setting up all the lines to optimize the RER line. How will you respond to Minister Magnette's offer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u21	Minister, in April 2003, the federal government and the Regions endorsed an agreement, the RER agreement, which sets out the scope of the work. This convention also defines what is meant by suburban supply. To set up financing for this infrastructure work of the suburban supply, a fund had been set up: the RER fund. By the end of 2014, our government wanted to understand objectively and realistically the state of affairs inherited from past policies. Several points were put forward: first, EUR 2 billion had already been spent while no real suburban offer had been proposed. Then a lot of construction sites were blocked mainly in Wallonia. You'll explain why earlier. Finally, as for the RER fund itself, it soon became apparent that it was going to be exhausted around 2019-2020. Today, there is about 115 million euros left in this fund. My questions will therefore focus on the two lines for which the infrastructure works are to be completed, namely L124 and L161. Could you first give us the reasons why the work is at a standstill on L124? Is it related to the RER fund or not? What, in your opinion and second, are the causes of the delays in work, mainly in Wallonia? Is this perhaps an underestimation of spending under previous governments? Can you give us an overview of the important work that has already been done in terms of infrastructure? I will conclude on two points. In your interview this weekend in L'Echo, you state that the situation was known to previous ministers. Why did they not act when they were informed of the situation? Finally, you call for more consultation with the Regions in this matter. To my knowledge, you are the Prime Minister who created a genuine platform for intermodality and the first who wanted to involve the Regions in the preparation of the Belgian multi-annual investment plan. How do you see this consultation, its organisation, its timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, much has already been said about the GEN around Brussels. I think we can share the concerns about this. It is clear that Brussels is one of the cities heavily affected by the traffic infarct and that the Brussels-Capital Expresnet can make a contribution to finding a solution there. I think that the concerns and the questions about them are quite right. This weekend it was linked to the fact that the other GEN projects envisaged in the government agreement should wait until the full completion of the GEN around Brussels. That raises a number of questions. In my question I focus on Antwerp, but the same applies to Ghent and the other cities that were included in the government agreement. After Brussels, Antwerp is the city most affected by congestion and mobility in the world. In addition, major works are being put forward, which means that alternatives are highly needed in the coming years. It is important that no major rail infrastructure investment is needed here. What do we need for the GEN in Antwerp? These are, firstly, lanes and, secondly, rolling stock. In essence, this means that additional trains can be fitted for a rail-GEN as it has already been drawn up by the various services of SNCB. We shall then come back to the problem of road pricing, as we have raised several times in the past. The freezing of the lane fee despite the additional use of trains can be a piste. Mr Cornu has put this forward on several occasions, including for the GEN around Brussels, for the S-trains as they are already being laid in today. The second element is investment in rolling stock. There are still Desiro pebbles and meanwhile the order for the N7 has taken place. Madam Minister, I think it is absurd and unacceptable for Antwerp and the other cities to have to wait until infrastructure projects have been completed elsewhere, if no major infrastructure investments have to be made there. One must be separated from the other and each project must be assessed on its own merits, costs and efforts. That is why I have the following questions. Firstly, what is the state of play with regard to Brussels, as my fellow Members have already mentioned? Secondly, is it true that you are shifting the GEN around Antwerp to the background until the S-course is fully completed? If so, what are the precise reasons for this? Why this link and what are the risks associated with it? You indicated in the newspapers that better coordination of the offer in Antwerp would solve a lot. Can you explain that in detail? I do not think that is entirely clear. What measures are we talking about? To an earlier question, you have already replied that there should be a continuation of the suburban network Antwerp by the end of 2016. Can you confirm or repeat this timing? Do you think this is feasible? Have any decisions been taken on the financial aspects? What is the timing, for example, of the lane fee, its revision or its freezing by rail? What is the Minister's view of any additional financial costs?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u23	Mr Van den Bergh, would you like to conclude?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u24	Madam President, I'm finishing up. My final question, the ships of Mobility in Antwerp also called for a single mobility card. This is an interesting piste, but of course it is already being worked on by SNCB with the Mobib map. How do you feel about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u25	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, much has already been said. Like the previous speaker, I would like to talk not only about the GEN-Brussels but also about the other GEN-Antwerp. First of all, on the issue of GEN-Brussels, Madam Minister, I should like to say that the previous Walloon speakers pretend that you are to blame for the delay in this dossier and that there is a financial deficit in the GEN-fund. I think this is absolutely not correct. The delays are not new in this file, they have been there for years. The first policy idea of GEN-Brussels dates back to 1989, so many years ago. The first phase of the GEN-Brussels would be rolled out and foreseen in 2012. Meanwhile, the deadline has moved to 2025 and even seems to be a precarious objective. I would like to give a few examples of the delays in that dossier; they are very extensive. For example, the Diabolo tunnel, a four-year delay. The financial deficits, then. A month before this government entered the saddle, it became known that Minister Labille had a deficit of more than EUR 1 billion in the GEN fund. Madam Secretary, I think you have effectively inherited an Echternach file from your predecessors. In the audit of the Court of Auditors published last Friday, we read that the federal government has always fulfilled its obligations regarding the GEN fund. The federal government has already put more than two billion euros into the GEN fund and yet there are still deficits to complete everything as planned. For the sake of clarity, N-VA also wishes to build the GEN as it was planned and wants to make it operational. The management agreement dates back to 2003. In our view, this is a typical Belgian problem. We are here in Brussels and four public transport companies are involved in the line, the TEC, STIB and SNCB, as well as many relevant authorities. We note that this cooperation is anything but smooth. Last Thursday we saw a sample of this when this dossier was on the agenda of the Consultative Committee. At that time, you proposed using Beliri funds to correct the deficits in the GEN fund, but the Brussels government was not in favour of this. I would like to know more about the financial deficits of the GEN fund. Madam Secretary, is it correct that the federal government has always fulfilled its obligations? Could you explain the deficits for the GEN fund? Is it true that you had the plan to propose using Beliri funds for the GEN fund and that the city of Brussels did not agree to this, but rather wanted to use these resources to build the pedestrian zone? The construction of ponds, plant compartments and so on seems to me to be a local authority, not a federal one. I come to the connection with the Antwerp dossier. That link was put in the press this weekend, but we don't think it exists at all. There are two major differences between the two dossiers. Firstly, there is a difference of three zeros in financial terms. For the GEN-Antwerp, only two million is needed, as opposed to two billion. Secondly, for the GEN-Antwerp, cooperation with the city, the BAM, the Flemish government, the Line and the SNCB is progressing very smoothly. This is not about investment, but mainly about capacity expansion. I would also like to see your vision of the GEN-Antwerp. This dossier is explicitly mentioned in the coalition agreement. That is the most important Bible to which we must stick by the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u26	Madam Secretary, I will not try to hand out black pricks and talk about bibles where public transport is. I will not repeat everything that has been said. I believe that your concern is right that the work of the GEN around Brussels should move forward. This can be done by ensuring adequate financial resources. If you say that we must make an effort there, I hope that we will do so as soon as possible. However, you also seem to have considered it necessary to talk about the other suburban networks this weekend, not only about Antwerp but also about Ghent. There are also Liège and Charleroi. These were all in the plan. You said that we only have to wait a little longer with these suburban networks, especially with Antwerp. We're gonna put that in the freezer. That won't be necessary right now. I find that very bizarre because these two cities, Ghent and Antwerp, are at the top in terms of mobility problems, even at European level. In Ghent, there has been a real attempt to pursue a policy of tackling these serious mobility problems in recent years. This also requires a performance public transport service. They are not only counting on the Line but also on SNCB to improve mobility around the city. It is very strange to hear from you that you say that we are not going to continue with Antwerp and Ghent although this is in the coalition agreement. By the way, preparatory work has already been done. A whole procedure has been agreed with the cities. There's even been a kick-off to launch all that. Firstly, I would have liked to hear from you the progress made with the suburban networks for Antwerp and Ghent. What exactly are the reasons for the delay? Are they of a financial nature or are there other reasons behind that decision? Secondly, how large are the investments for the four suburban networks estimated separately? In other words, what savings do you hope to make temporarily or permanently by putting these projects in the refrigerator? Thirdly, where are the plans for the suburban network in Ghent, Liège, Charleroi and Antwerp? Fourthly, how long do you intend to put the projects for the four suburban networks on hold? Fifth, will preparatory work be carried out in the meantime? If so, which one? Madam Minister, I appeal to you to come back to your words and continue to invest in those other projects. They often do not cost much money in terms of investment. It is often possible to take major steps forward without major investment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions, which give me the opportunity to recall the issues on this issue of which the government has made a priority. Before I repeat the history of this case, I think it is good to recall that there is a great deal of confusion around the term or the notion of RER. Mr Cheron, I invite you to read Article 14 of the Convention of 4 April 2003, where we are already talking about suburban rail offers. I meet many citizens who are waiting for the Brussels RER an RER in Paris. Since the beginning of this beautiful project, it has not been. The Paris RER transports more passengers on a daily basis than the SNCB on its entire network. There is therefore no comparison possible and I would like to remind you at the outset. After many discussions already in the late 1980s, the Interministerial Conference on Communications and Infrastructure decided on 30 March 1999 in favour of the establishment of the RER and the creation of a working group called the "High Level RER Group", mandated to study the conditions for the implementation of the RER and to draw up a draft cooperation agreement between the federal government and the three Regions. It was therefore in April 2003 that the Federal State and the Regions endorsed a convention aimed at implementing the programme of the Regional Express Network of, towards and around Brussels. This convention focuses on rail supply and aims to improve overall public transport supply, integrated customer service and the implementation of accompanying measures to encourage motorists to use public transport. This agreement also specifies what is meant by "RER offer" or "suburban offer in the RER zone". The ambition of the time was that the RER offer would be fully operational by the end of 2012 – you heard: 2012! – with at least two radial relationships by 31 December 2005 at the latest. The study was launched in 2006 as provided for in Article 13 of this 2003 RER Convention to define the contours of the RER deployment scenarios. It covers not only travel needs analysed on the basis of objective criteria and requests for functionality in terms of frequency, amplitude and breakpoints, but also financial aspects. The final report of this study (Article 13) was completed on 22 June 2009. It was not until May 2012 that the Executive Committee of the Ministers of Mobility took a decision on the follow-up to be given to the conclusions of this study, with, in essence, the three companies of the SNCB Group and the three other transport companies (STIB, TEC and De Lijn). They shall draw up a coordinated, integrated and detailed multiannual implementation plan on the basis of the 2020 vision set out in the final report of the study (Article 13). Many studies and meetings over many years, but without a real suburban network being launched. We, as political managers, are all responsible for this. It must be reiterated that all political parties are somewhat responsible for the situation. What findings did I make when I took office at the end of 2014? At the level of the supply of suburban trains, no offer was marketed and communicated. However, nearly 2 billion euros had already been spent on railway infrastructure. At the level of infrastructure work, some projects were completed, others progressed, in the three regions, and still others were blocked. Licensing procedures have always been long, far too long. I will return to the particular situation of line 124, which illustrates the administrative delays and risks of many appeals. As far as the financial statement of the RER fund is concerned, it quickly became clear to me that this fund would be exhausted around 2019-2020, before the completion of the entire work defined. This observation had already been made at least five years ago. Yet none of my predecessors took responsibility for finding or negotiating a solution. We would not be there today if, as I said, the last federal governments, but also the various management bodies of SNCB and Infrabel had the courage to look at the truth in the face and to find structural solutions aimed at concentrating investment on the priority sections and the main adjustments, instead of sticking to the initial planning of the work, and allowing everything and everywhere at the same time, without conducting any analysis of opportunity. However, some studies had been carried out with a view to better objectivation. Mr Cheron, on the occasion of some visits, I was able to see that docks had already been completed when the rails had not been laid! The government has made the ER a priority. It wants a quality offer in the continuity and spirit of the 2003 Convention. I therefore want to find lasting and pragmatic solutions, not through chamber work, but in full consultation with the regional authorities. Very concrete elements are already being finalized. We will come back to that later. What are the means that we really have today? To answer the many questions that have been asked to me, I would say that there is still more or less EUR 105 million in the RER fund for new infrastructure works and to complete certain functional improvements. However, the federal government has met its commitments well and has contributed more than €2 billion to the fund to carry out infrastructure works as budgeted. At the end of October 2015, the balance of the RER fund was approximately €290 million. At the beginning of January 2016, it was around €220 million, but from this balance it is necessary to deduct the work in progress that cannot be stopped and the invoices receivable, mainly those relating to the work of the Schuman-Josaphat tunnel and line 50A. This represents 115 million euros. The real balance of the fund is therefore 105 million euros, too little of course to achieve the initial ambitions. Again, the federal government has made suburban offer a priority. That is why I decided, as soon as I arrived, to launch a real suburban offer while continuing to complete the work in progress within a reasonable time. In concrete terms, a suburban offer was launched by SNCB in 2015, known as S, which now corresponds to more than 60% of the trains defined in the 2003 convention, with two new stations: "Germoir" and "Tour and Taxis". The S9 relationship will be a new direct connection between Leuven and Braine-l'Alleud and the Schuman multimodal station. The time saving on Leuven to Schuman is 17 minutes. Right now, it's just a cutting-edge relationship. The S5 relationship makes it possible to have, every thirty minutes, a connection between Hal and Mechelen via the Schuman railway station. The time saving on Mechelen to Brussels-Luxembourg is ten minutes and, thanks to this S5 relationship, there is a direct connection to Meiser, Evere, Bordet and Haren at the Mulimodal train station in Schuman. The S4 relationship is a new relationship between Alost-Schuman-Delta-Merode and Vilvorde at the cutting edge. The IC27 from Charleroi allows the stations of Nivelles, Braine-l'Alleud, Waterloo, Sint-Genesius-Rode, Linkebeek, Saint-Job, Vivier d'Oie, Boondael to be connected directly to Schuman, Bordet and the airport. This represents a substantial saving of time and comfort. In addition, during the next 2017 transport plan, there will be several million additional trains/kilometres, new stops and new stations to reach almost 90% of the supply of S trains.The benefits will be significant: a much wider range of peak hours, weekend traffic, the introduction of the Arcades station, and the extension of the offer in S trains to 90% of the 2003 convention. I would like to recall that the Brussels government has stressed, from the beginning of 2015, the action of my department in this matter. Now that we are talking about the offer, I would like to address those who are making it a Community debate. I would like to reiterate that this is not about privatising one region or another. There is a purely geographical reality that can be illustrated by the following figures. Of the 141 stations of the suburban area, thirty kilometres around Brussels, 33 are located in the Brussels-Capital Region, 27 are located in the Walloon Region and 81 are located in the Flemish Region. The fact that more stations are operated in Flanders is a purely mathematical consequence. As far as infrastructure is concerned, I should like to make it clear from the outset that, contrary to the statements of some, the budgetary savings of the SNCB Group have never directly or indirectly affected the resources of the RER Fund. Today, while there are more or less 105 million euros left in the fund, it is estimated that between 700 and 900 million will be needed to complete all the four-track work on all lines. After discussion with SNCB and Infrabel, it appeared that it would not be necessary to carry out all this work in order to obtain a quality suburban offer around Brussels. That's the important thing. Moreover, various studies, particularly in Walloon Brabant, have been carried out in relation to line 124. For too long, the infrastructure works have been disconnected from the land supply. Many infrastructures have already been built in the Brussels, Walloon and Flemish regions. New infrastructure has been completed on the Brussels-Louvain L36 line, which improves access to Liège, the Brussels-Hal L96 line, which improves access to Mons, Tournai and La Louvière, and the Brussels-Denderleeuw L50A line, which improves access to Ghent, Bruges and Ostend. The Schuman-Josaphat tunnel will be inaugurated in the coming weeks. Several car parks are created on all the lines of Flanders and Wallonia. Several stations have been completed or created, including Tour and Taxis and Germoir, I have already told you. A large part of the civil engineering is carried out, for example the widening of the track plates, and new bridges are completed on the L61 Watermael-Ottignies line, and to a lesser extent on the L124. This work has been carried out but most of it has been delayed significantly. There are many reasons for these delays: a real underestimation of expenditure including the higher costs for the Schuman-Josaphat tunnel, environmental costs, costs related to local development to meet the demands of the municipalities with road rehabilitations, noise-resistant walls, the cost of permits, costs related to the duration of obtaining certain town planning permits and additional costs inevitably due to cumulative delays. To answer your questions more precisely, the two lines for which the infrastructure works still need to be finalized are lines 124 and 161. The remaining lines have already been completed, mainly because they were not subject to a large number of expropriations, as is the case for lines 124 and 161. In view of my desire to improve customer satisfaction, to continue the development of the rail offer, to finally create a dynamic which aims to optimise the investments already made and the use of the available infrastructures, SNCB and Infrabel have examined alternatives to the four-lane complete implementation of lines 124 and 161. These alternatives, which have unfortunately been leaked in the press, while the working groups are still under discussion, aim to complete the open-air projects which cause inconvenience to customers and residents, to increase the number of trains, to increase the service to the stations, to guarantee or even to improve the commercial speed and to guarantee or even to improve the timetables in terms of spacing and punctuality. As far as line 124 is concerned, the four-lane work is now at a standstill for problems of planning permits. Infrabel had to deal with these difficulties both in the Brussels-Capital Region where the permit application was submitted in 2002, and in the Flemish Region where an application for the Council of State cancelled the first permit in 2010, while the second permit was cancelled by the Raad voor Vergunningsbetwistingen at the end of 2014 on the grounds that the sector plan had not been amended. Following these appeals, the permit application procedure has to be restarted from the outset. The time limit for obtaining a new permit can be estimated to be two to three years, without being able to rule out appeals. Today, I don't want to, or more, waste time. I have requested that work be carried out as soon as possible, and in large part during this legislature, on the development of railway stations, parking lots, roads, elevators and extension of tunnels under the track. This includes stations in Nivelles, Waterloo, Sint-Genesius-Rode and Linkebeek. Some stations will see their use increase in the coming years and we need to be prepared for it. As far as this line 124 is concerned, for the next 2017 transport plan, the SNCB is considering at my request the possibility of increasing the number of services while ensuring that the speed of ICs coming from Charleroi is increased. To be precise, the S9 Leuven-Schuman-Braine-l'Alleud trains should be able to ride all day, while today only the advanced trains are driving. In addition, we are examining the possibility of running S9 trains during the weekend via Brussels airport. With regard to line 161, the technical working groups shall review all remaining work with a view to presenting a high-quality suburban offer as soon as possible. In concrete terms, this is reflected in the partial renovation of the Ottignies station, the four-lane bifurcation to Louvain-la-Neuve and the four-lane construction of the Watermael-Bakenbos section. Today, thanks to the work already done, the base for laying the four tracks does exist. It is expected that this project will be completed before 2025. I hope that it will be completed by the end of 2023. As soon as this work is completed, it will be possible to have an offer of S trains every fifteen minutes and all day. The cost of the proposed work on lines 161 and 124, taking into account the technical and therefore financial optimizations that I have just presented to you, is estimated at 231.8 million, an additional effort to the remaining RER fund of 126.5 million. I will therefore, together with the government, ensure that the necessary funding is provided for strict programming of these investments over the period 2020-2024. This strict programming must also ensure a balance of the 60-40 key. There is no question of calling this key into question. On the other hand, as I announced in my strategic vision, a working group is studying the implementation of a multi-year rather than an annual key. The aim is to avoid that, for example, in April, when one of the limits of this key has been reached, one has to wait the following year to start again. These proposals are a first step. However, they are marked by technical and financial realism, which is necessary in order to give a strong signal to the customer: the suburban offer is not a myth. You also ask me about ANGELIC, the RER networks of Antwerp, Ghent, Liège and Charleroi. As you have understood, the suburban offer around Brussels, to and from Brussels, is a priority for this government, in terms of supply and investment. It is therefore necessary to devote all the necessary resources and energy to it, and the current situation in recent days reminds us of this. In addition, other projects aimed at strengthening supply around Ghent, Antwerp, Liège and Charleroi will be examined as part of the next transport plan. But the priority is clear in the government agreement: the priority is Brussels and its periphery. Let us not misunderstand my remarks during the weekend: the priority is Brussels, but I do not close the door to other projects. For Antwerp, I refer again to earlier research, which shows that there are more than 28 000 free seats to Antwerp in the morning rush from the seven directions from which the train arrives. In a radius of 30 km around Antwerp, 80% of the stations are operated at least twice an hour. Almost a quarter of the stations are operated four times an hour. There is therefore sufficient supply during rush hour. That is why I have stated that creating even more offers is not necessary at the moment and is not advisable. We must make every effort to get drivers out of traffic and get them on the train in one of the free seats. However, sufficient car and bicycle parking facilities should be provided for this purpose, for example. We need to work on that. We will conduct these talks at the level of the intermodality platform. I have always argued for closer coordination between the different levels of power in order to define and implement a coherent mobility policy across the country, starting from the railway as a structural axis. I have already opened my doors at the various meetings of the concertation committee. The distribution of competences between the different levels of power is such that if everyone works in their own corner without worrying about others, it is not possible to achieve an integrated intermodal policy. As I have repeatedly said, mobility is transversal, it does not stop at the border of a region or a country. That is why I took the initiative to submit to the Consultation Committee the proposal for the establishment of a platform on intermodality. I wanted to focus work on how we can all together improve intermodality in relation to the railways. Work on this platform will begin in the next few days. We conclude the agenda of the work that we will propose to all our partners. The various working groups will focus on intermodality or how to combine rail with soft modes of transport (walking, cycling), with other public transport (bus, metro, tram) or with the car via the car park policy near the railway stations. I have launched a consultation of the various stakeholders in order to know their expectations on the topics to be addressed. I will soon table the topics that I wish to put on the agenda. Future railway investments must also be more coordinated, primarily between Infrabel and SNCB, but also between the federal government and the Regions. That is why I have set up an investment unit which carries out a systematic analysis, with a tool to assist in the decision-making of all investment projects envisaged by SNCB and Infrabel, or proposed by the Regions. The analytical work within the Committee is progressing. I will convene the Strategic Committee in the next few days to start discussions on the next IPP with the Regions. I think it's a first in Belgium. At this meeting, we will examine, among other things, the financing routes for suburban infrastructure. In this regard, I note the proposal of the Minister-President, Mr Magnette, to use part of the pre-financing of the Gosselies station to finance part of the work on line 161. This is a very constructive lead, and I thank him for that. We are also studying feasibility and other potentials, such as Beliris, with my colleague Reynders. To sum up, you will find with me that the RER file, in its first acceptance, has taken a considerable delay to the point of not having any visibility for the client for years. Through my action, by capitalizing on the infrastructure already achieved, the SNCB was able to launch in 2015 a real suburban offer. This offer will continue to improve in the coming years. However, we must be realistic and accept, in a sense of responsibility that is mine today, to make choices in terms of optimizing infrastructure. That is what I am preparing and will share with my regional colleagues. I have just presented the first results with the aim of guaranteeing mobility in and around Brussels, which must be intermodal. I bring my stone to this great building in order to propose credible mobility solutions while also respecting climate issues. I have taken a little time to redo the history, but what matters is to work together on the short and long term on this very important issue for all of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u28	The interpleans and questioners are now given the floor for a reply: up to five minutes for the interpleans and up to two minutes for the questioners. I'll keep a close eye on time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u29	Madam Chair, Minister, I would like to thank you for your history of the RER issue and to express my full concern about the future. Indeed, contrary to what I was able to read in the newspaper published on Sunday, which was quoted earlier and to which you had granted an interview, you confirm today that it is the scenarios mentioned by Infrabel and SNCB that are on the table. Your communication has been ambiguous voluntarily or not, I allow commentators to comment on it. Still, you said that you were going to complete the RER with a hundred million – the term "complete" could take on several meanings. It has been understood that the hypothesis that appears to be used is indeed that referred to by Infrabel and SNCB, namely the cessation of the four-lane rollover of line 124 and the limitation of the four-lane rollover on line 161. The general installation of the four lanes is therefore returned to the Greek calends. But you know that these do not exist. But, to hear you, there may one day be the possibility of going towards the four-lane line. Minister, I agree with you on two points. First of all, we must not communitize the debate. The stations of Hoeileaart and Holleken are located in Flanders and are served by lines 124 and 161. Everyone agrees. Mr Maingain will roar, but this is also the case of Rhode-Saint-Genèse and Linkebeek who are in Flemish territory, even if these municipalities have a special status – and in particular that of blocking permits, which is damaging. But let's get out of the community debate. With my colleague Stefaan Van Hecke, I will also table a motion to show you that this is not at stake. The stakes are mobility, compliance with COP21, compliance with the commitments that Belgium must fulfil. And you know that transport accounts for more than 20% of greenhouse gas emissions. The stakes are therefore considerable. Then there's no partisan debate. You have, with some skill, recalled the past. We can see why. Of course, it concerns all parties. I'm from the mobility party. Let us all be united behind this party of mobility! Let's do the RER! Let's create this new party, minister. It'll be easier. But then, what to do? What to do with the current perspective of not four ways everywhere. It bothers me. Are there several categories of engineers? Are there engineers who will no longer be consulted for the lines already set to four lanes, and those for the lines where it is not done? Excuse me, but those who are rather concerned about beasts stories of "I was born somewhere," as Brassens said, still find it hard to understand why there is a truth for some and a non-truth for others. It's inexplicable. On the other hand, the suburban offer. I understand that in the communication – even the political parties do this, Mr.Maingain could talk about it – when a concept does not work, one can change its name, one can evolve. We can make the concept a little different, and we come with something sexy. The S for sexy, offers suburban. I come with the C: is this going to change a lot for commuters? You tell us you're already at 60% of the suburban offer, and soon at 90%. Come on, what are we talking about in relation to a cadence project? Paris is not Brussels, but Brussels is not Paris, ma'am! I hope we get back together with the help of the Regions. I believe in the possibility of real coordination. I said it on Thursday on the concertation committee. We need to work together for mobility. Madam Chair, I conclude, because I see you looking at the chronometer, and I don't like it when you're stressed. I therefore conclude: I am going to table with my colleague Mr. Van Hecke is an excellent motion. It asks the government to clarify its position – you see that it is a real ambition – to make budgetary resources available as soon as the budget is adjusted and to give concrete effect – I quote page 215 of the majority agreement – to "accelerate the implementation of the RER by integrating it into the SNCB's transport plan". I recall that the future transport plan is 2017-2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u30	Minister, why then say, on January 21, 2016, that the RPP will be completed in 2025, as planned in 2003? It is obviously a mistake for Parliament, but above all for the citizen, and that is what is disturbing. Indeed, as you said in this article, the citizen is full of it. Mr Cheron has just said: to rename things that exist, like the suburban, is nothing new. It's not a new offer. There was little scope for a new offer, but if there has already been a very small start to the suburban, it is thanks to all the work done by the previous governments of which the MR was part. So let us not criticise the former governments every time. Without them, there would be no Schuman station or Josaphat tunnel today. Minister, we won't have an RER offer. You tell us: "We forget the four ways. We forget everything." We should tell the citizens, the Brabanons, that they will not have a RER, that they will not have four ways and that they will not have what Flanders has today. Good thing she's got it. I'm for Flanders to have it. But I am also in favour of Wallonia having the same offer and being in the same situation as Flanders today. I don't understand your calculations, minister. I understood relatively well the EUR 126 million that was missing compared to EUR 100 million. You say that you need about EUR 126 million to complete the sub-offer you are proposing for lines 124 and 161 and that these will be financed by the federal state. I therefore do not see why you need EUR 200 million from the Gosselies and Beliris railway stations. If the Walloon Region and Beliris are working in this solidarity, in this concertation – I hope so – I hope you will make us another offer than the one proposed here because it is really a sub-offer for all Francophones in this country, for Brussels and tomorrow's mobility. Otherwise, the offer will not be acceptable to all commuters and Brussels will continue to be stifled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u31	Madam Minister, thank you for your various explanations. Of course, the ER is indeed a priority. I hope it will be followed by effect. We agree with your figures, despite your statements last weekend. To have a four-way start and a RER worthy of that name, I had quoted the figure of 722 million earlier. You quoted the figures from 700 million to 900 million. For the rest, you make a turn at 180°. Indeed, you send the setting to four lanes, full and whole, Ottignies-Nivelles and all the desserts that correspond, to the oblivionttes. What interests us is to know what will be offered to commuters. I was talking earlier about a fake RER. But, Madam Minister, this two-way RER is a decoy for commuters. What is a two-way RER? We can just hope it's a two-storey train on time. But this is not a RER! You've talked about Paris, but it's not a question of number of people! The stakes are the rate, the hourly frequency. By definition, that's what an RSP is! That's how it was planned from the beginning! You present the suburban offer as the magical, hopeless solution. Commuters will be able to move quickly, safely and with a train every 10 minutes. However, it is a number of lines already in operation today that you rename "S" – suburban offer. Therefore, Madam Minister, I would like to urge you not to fall into ease and marketing by presenting this suburban offer as the only alternative to the ER, not to mention all that has been lost for years, including in major works, but only to think of commuters. Do not depart from the ER as planned, including, I would remind you, in the cooperation agreement which has the force of law! Therefore, you cannot unblock the RER alone, in its four-way modeling on all the remaining lines to be completed towards Ottignies and towards Nivelles. I now come to the financing required from 700 to 900 million. We're going to have to mobilize together, all levels of power together. Meet between different Ministers of Mobility. We need to find a way to finance this work. Pre-financing is probably not enough. This can be a modeling and relaxation to obtain a multi-year smoothing of the 60-40 key, which seems to me a positive lead. We had already presented it, but it has not been possible so far. I propose that on this subject, both sides determine the collective stakes and those related to good management. Basically, an annual 60-40 key is not good management. It is, of course, better that we can work together to provide resources for all commuters, whether they are Flemish, Walloon or Brussels. This also concerns the environmental and health aspects.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u32	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I'll be very brief. You know that this government has concluded a climate agreement, although it is very late. However, you also know that this climate agreement is problematic in terms of car transport. We absolutely need to reduce that. I hope you also realise that the only way to reduce this is to invest in public transport. Let me remind you that in 2015 we had another record year on traffic jams on Belgian roads. This government likes to count economically, and I'm gonna do that for once. Those traffic jams were over 1 200 hours over 100 km. During fifty full days our country stood still over 100 km. Madam Secretary, ruling is making choices. You say that the GEN around Brussels will be there by 2025. After the explanation we've had, there's no one who believes that anymore. Then you say that you are going to invest everything in Brussels because choices have to be made and there will not be enough for the other cities. For the other cities, however, we have the suburban networks. You said at one point that there are now four per hour with the new regulation. Madam Secretary, you've reduced them. Around Ghent I can call you three stations where they used to have two trains per hour and now one train per hour. So the number has been reduced. Saying that these suburban networks are a better solution or a provisional solution is simply false. Madam Secretary, once again, choices, choices for the future. I simply note that this government has chosen to give four billion to commercial vehicles and to give much, much less to public transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u33	Madam President, with Mrs Galant, there is at least one merit: things are clear. A Walloon minister buried the RER towards Wallonia. It's the revelation of the day! It's the confession, it's clear, it's clear! Minister, it's no wonder that when I took over Infrabel's financial reports over the last few years, we see that under the current government, Infrabel's share of investments in the ER has decreased considerably since you were in charge. I note that in 2011 and 2012, investments in the RER still accounted for between 28 and 29 % of Infrabel's total investments, i.e. 330 million euros out of 1.2 billion. They fell to 20 per cent in 2013 and to barely 12 per cent in 2014. Worse, in 2015, the budget announced 170 million savings, which represented less than 100 million euros for the RER, three times less than in 2012. That's the truth of Infrabel's report. It's a political choice. You're trying to tell us about technical optimizations, new developments, as if we were discovering that there was a new iphone that had come out for the RER! As if the choice of double-tracking in each direction was a kind of engineer's whirlwind! Is it necessary to remember that this was a necessary choice to have a good pace on the proximity lines and on the long-distance lines? Is it worth recalling that, especially for the south of the country, when we know the state of the Brussels-Namur-Luxembourg line – which has lost more or less twenty minutes of profitability in thirty years – it was a necessity to put the 164 and 121 lines on four tracks? It was a technical necessity, it is not an ephemeral invention. It was an absolute necessity to improve supply. You will sacrifice the RER and the quality of the services of other railway lines! It's your choice! You dress this up by saying that we are going to improve, from here, a few suburban lines. The real structural measure, the real initial plan of the RER, which was considered by all partners, regardless of the majorities, as an absolute priority in the field of railway policy, you buried it this day, Minister! By budgetary choice, by political choice, by refusal to have a vision for mobility! [[The situation is very serious.]] Indeed, we will not be able to develop any other concept of mobility in Brussels unless public transport and, in particular, rail transport are supported. I note that, in your head, what was good as a RER project for Flanders is no longer good for Wallonia.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u34	We can thank you, Minister, for we have had clear positions today, both in terms of numbers and in terms of your political will. Unfortunately, we are currently attending a first-class funeral of the RER and this concerns us all. I would like to quote the provincial council of Walloon Brabant who voted on a motion last Thursday. This requires from the competent minister of the federal government, as well as from the management of Infrabel "a commitment decided so that every effort is made to finalize, within a reasonable time, the RER on lines 124 to Nivelles, and 161 to Ottignies". This is a clear and unanimous position taken by all the elected members of the Walloon Brabant, whether they are from the PS, cdH, MR or Ecolo. As a result, they reject the possible positioning of the S network as a credible alternative. However, there are proposals on the table, both from Beliris and from the Walloon minister-president. I therefore hope that, among these working groups that you are talking about today, there will be another reflection and that you will ask for additional resources in the next budgetary adjustment. I would like to announce that my group will table a resolution in the direction of effective implementation of a four-track line and effective finalization of the RER. It will be tabled in the coming days and we will therefore have the opportunity to return to this debate in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u35	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers. Everyone can say it, you have a true talk. At least things are very clear. Thank you for insisting, as our Prime Minister did last week in plenary, that the ER is still a priority for the government. Thank you also for reminding us of history, which allows us to shed some light on the decisions that need to be made today and the consequences of management in recent years. There has been much talk of infrastructure, of four-tracking, but no one reminds us that what is important is the offer made to customers, commuters, people who, every day, find themselves on trains to Brussels in this case. People who are on the train don't care if there are 3, 4, 6, 7 or 10 lanes, the main thing is that they arrive as soon as possible and with a good pace. That seems very clear to me. As you have also pointed out, I believe that the essential thing now is not to waste any more time, to move forward and to move the matter forward. One point also deserves to be stressed is your willingness to have a coherent, credible policy, and above all in consultation with the Regions. It's something that's never been done or very little. As you pointed out, Minister Magnette's proposal is also a good step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u36	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your detailed and detailed reply, especially on the Brussels dossier. It is important to continue to focus on expanding the offer as well and as quickly as possible. I do not agree with the Members who claim that a two-track RER would not be possible. If so, we would no longer speak of a GEN around Antwerp. After all, the GEN around Antwerp is fully designed on rail connections on two tracks, except between Antwerp and Mechelen. Madam Minister, I am glad to hear that the door for the GEN around Antwerp is not closed and that it will be reviewed on the basis of the timetable at the end of 2017. We're looking forward to it. I wonder where the 28 000 empty seats can be found. At least they're hard to find on our railroad. Many travelers would be very satisfied if they could find those places. So I wonder where that figure comes from. I would like to look forward to the study that would exist on this. In addition, by the end of 2017 in particular, we must ensure that the GEN around Antwerp can also be put on track effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u37	Madam President, Madam Minister, I had also asked you for a vision on the other suburban networks and the GEN-Antwerp. I had hoped you would confirm the coalition agreement in your reply. In fact, that agreement includes the need to work on the other genologists as well. The implementation of the coalition agreement should, in your capacity as Minister, be your first priority. However, I am very concerned about your answer in that dossier. You're moving the file backwards. The N-VA will not tolerate Antwerp's mobility being the victim of Brussels' immobility. It is a pity that there are problems in Brussels, both in financial and legal terms and in terms of consultation. However, Antwerp must not suffer from this. Madam Minister, you yourself say that an additional offer for Antwerp is not appropriate. The situation you describe and to which Mr Van den Bergh also refers, in particular the empty areas on the train, is about a train coming from Charleroi and passing through to Antwerp. This situation is absolutely no reason for us not to revisit the offer of transport around Antwerp. On the contrary, in my view, you confirm our vision of regionalising the transport plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u38	Madam Secretary, your answer does not convince me at all. I will not thank you for that. I can only thank you for being so honest about what you're really up to. I am surprised if you reply on Antwerp that there is a sufficient supply in rush hour and that there would be no need for a larger supply. You say that it is most important to use it to get more people on the train. I can follow you in that. But if you say "A," you should say "B." Then you should also tell us how you will do that, and think about tackling the tax benefits for payroll cars, which are much greater than the amount of money to SNCB. So you need to think about a smart mileage tax, or whatever. Madam Secretary, I have also asked you questions about Ghent. You didn't say a word about Ghent. Will you answer that there is sufficient offer there? You do not mention the reasons for stopping the project in Ghent. However, a clear start has been made there, and a clear path has been agreed. You clearly abandon important cities such as Ghent and Antwerp. You are looking for money for the GEN around Brussels. Apparently, that search is gonna be difficult. However, this morning we were able to read that you have found tens of millions to place gates and gates everywhere. So it can't be that hard. It is clear to us that it is not a priority for you and your government to tackle mobility problems in a structural way. You give the suburban nets a first-class funeral, so much is clear. Madam Secretary, I was curious to hear the reactions of your coalition partners. I hear Mr Van den Bergh say that he is happy that the door is not closed. Apparently, he's happy with the dead sparrow you're offering him. I also note that the N-VA is not really satisfied and insists that the coalition agreement should be implemented. Well, Madam Minister, that coalition agreement contains a clear commitment to work on suburban networks, including outside Brussels. You have to stick to that. This is absolutely important to address the mobility problems in the Flemish cities, but also in Liège and Charleroi.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u39	Madam President, I know that Parliament has the last word, but I would like to correct some of the points very quickly. The government agreement states that there is a need to speed up the implementation of the RSP. It's done. Previous governments have spent more than $2 billion on infrastructure work. Today, the offer exists. But no one underlines this reality. It is a pity to focus on infrastructure works to the detriment of investment and the better mobility offered to citizens, whether in Brussels or in its periphery. Mr Maingain, I am not burying the RER project, far from it. We must express serious political choices. So far, SNCB and Infrabel have often worked in their own corner. I am pleased to hear Mr Cheron admit, particularly for lines 161 and 124, that it is not mandatory to install four lanes. As far as line 161 is concerned, it is the technicians, the engineers of SNCB and Infrabel who have optimized the investments and who consider that the four-lane roll-out of the entire line is not necessary. With regard to line 124, given the problems of permits and the lack of funding, we prefer to put the whole package on the customer's reception in railway stations, parking lots and tunnels under way. The investment unit will study the four-track solution and seek sources of financing for it. Therefore, the pre-financing proposed by the Walloon Region has its raison d'être. This amount would not, in any case, be sufficient if the whole line were to be set to four lanes. We are waiting for the file to be thoroughly analysed by this cell.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u40	Madam President, I did not necessarily intend to reply, even if it is good that Parliament has the last word. It's our meagre power, so we're not going to leave it. The minister quoted me – which is always a real happiness – but I didn't say that! Maybe I was clumsy, but I don't think so. I said that I was acting that you acknowledged that there was a total stop to continue the four-lane work on 124 towards Nivelles, and that on 161 there were some four-lane work. I regretted that the rest would not be done. But above all, I did not want to have a double sentence, not only that there was not the four-way work, but that there was not, in the meantime, more efficient rolling stock. What matters is first the commuter and his travel conditions. It's the most important thing, of course. Believe, Mr Burton, that it is not of interest to commuters... I advise you to participate in the action of Ecolo in favor of the rail for the "Saint-Valentrain", as every year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u41	Mrs Galant has just convinced me that we should do something in this parliamentary assembly and in the Walloon regional Parliament, where a special committee has been set up to verify certain facts. You tell us that it is the engineers who say that... so we will see who is responsible, politics or administration. It's like the tunnel file. Who is responsible for administration or policies? It is because you have closed your budget, you have reduced it, that technicians are obliged to adapt their projects to the extent of the financial resources that you make available to them. And not the other way around! I have no problem: I will propose a special information committee. Thus, we will also do our work of surveying administrations. I believe that, together with Mrs Galant, it is essential to look for the real source of information. Moreover, what is remarkable and will have to be explained to me is that the offer of mobility around Brussels has been increased by the development of the RER on certain lines, especially towards the north, which are four ways away, but that all of a sudden it would no longer be necessary towards the south. Where is coherence? What was so well conceived at one time and that all parties recognized as necessary, whatever the majorities, suddenly becomes almost a messy project! Excuse me, I'd like to understand what's happening! What's happening is that you've decided to cut the budget envelopes. Point! That's the reality. With the resulting consequences for the loss of quality of service for those who could finally benefit from the development of the RER in the south of the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u42	Madam President, Minister, the engineers have a good back. Above all, obviously, when it suits you. The story won't tell who asked the other to draw the conclusions you put on their backs. In essence, this would mean that, for the past ten years, engineers have been penguins and absolutely did not know what would make it possible to have, today and tomorrow, a truly increased offer with a high hourly rate. Frankly, the way you approach things raises questions about scientific honesty. The knot is obviously elsewhere. Rather than see what it is necessary to do, in this case a four-track RSP, you start off your budget and wonder what you can do right. Instead of looking for 700, 800 or 900 million to secure the commitments that have been made, continue the work and offer this high rate to users, you think you do not want to look for the budget and you remove 3 billion over the entire legislature for the SNCB group and the stakes of mobility via rail. In practice, you send us a file which seems miraculous but which is, at the bottom, only from the node wrapping that is the budget. Whether it is here in Parliament, or speaking to all the ministers concerned, since it is not just you, I can only urge you to work and return to a certain ambition for rail and commuters.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u43	Madam Chair, Madam Minister, I will agree with what my colleagues have said. We mustn't overturn the charge! When you realize 2.5 billion savings, you obviously no longer know how to find 800 million euros for the RER, while 2 billion euros have already been invested. That's what's shameful! As the commuters have undergone the work, you are announcing today that Line 124 will soon be single-track rather than two-track, because there was no maintenance of this track since the intention was to put it on four lanes. The commuters are going to go through the non-investment again! That will be the conclusion of this case. What was true in 2003 – and fortunately that it is done for Flanders – will never be true for the commuters of Wallonia or for a real offer for Brussels. Here, it is a political choice that you pose by making 2.5 billion savings compared to Infrabel and SNCB. Also, do not overturn the burden of proof in relation to these two operators!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-02-54-commissie-ic329x.u44	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr. Olivier Maingain and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries by Mr Marcel Cheron, Ms Catherine Fonck and Mr Olivier Maingain and the response of the Minister of Mobility, responsible for Belgocontrol and the National Society of Belgian Railways, asks the government - undertake to finalize the infrastructure works, on the basis of the initial project, on lines 124 and 161, which will allow the operation of the RER between Brussels and respectively Nivelles and Ottignies-Louvain-la-Neuve, for 2025, in accordance with what was announced by the Minister for Mobility in the Infrastructure Committee of 21 January 2015; - to materialise and budget this commitment in the future Multiannual Investment Plan (MIP) and to establish clearly the budgetary shifts made to ensure financing; - to implement this commitment without penalising the priority investment projects already planned and without degrading the quality of SNCB's services; - analyse and activate, where appropriate, all possible financing channels, including alternative financing and European financing, including the need for recourse to the European Strategic Investment Fund (ESIF), which mobilises EUR 315 billion of investment by 2017. A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Olivier Maingain and reads as follows: "The Chamber, Mr Marcel Cheron, Mrs Catherine Fonck and Mr Olivier Maingain and the reply of the Minister for Mobility, responsible for Belgocontrol and the National Society of the Belgian Railways, calls on the Government - undertake, on the basis of the initial project, to complete by 2025 the infrastructure on lines 124 and 161, which will enable the operation of the GEN between Brussels and Nivelles and Ottignies-Louvain-la-Neuve respectively, in accordance with what the Minister of Mobility announced in the Infrastructure Committee on 21 January 2015, - to establish and budget that commitment in the future multi-annual investment plan (MIP) and to clearly identify the budgetary shifts that will be made to ensure financing; - to give concrete form to this commitment without repercussions on the priority investment projects already planned and without any deterioration in the quality of SNCB's services; - analyse and use all possible funding channels, including alternative financing and European funding, including the possibility of using the European Fund for Strategic Investments, under which EUR 315 billion will be made available for investment by 2017.' A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Messrs. Marcel Cheron and Stefaan Van Hecke and read as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries by Mr Marcel Cheron, Ms Catherine Fonck and Mr Olivier Maingain and the response of the Minister of Mobility, responsible for Belgocontrol and the National Society of Belgian Railways, asks the government - clarify its position, as well as that of Infrabel and SNCB, on the investments to be made for the setting up of 4 lanes of RER 124 to Nivelles and 161 to Ottignies and on the timetable for the completion of the work; - to provide the necessary budgetary resources as soon as the federal budget adjustment of March 2016 is made in order to finalize the work as soon as possible, in coordination with the Regions; - to achieve the acceleration of the implementation of the RER by integrating it into the SNCB transport plan, as provided for in the majority agreement (page 215). A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Marcel Cheron and Mr Stefaan Van Hecke and reads as follows: "The Chamber, Mr Marcel Cheron, Mrs Catherine Fonck and Mr Olivier Maingain and the reply of the Minister for Mobility, responsible for Belgocontrol and the National Society of the Belgian Railways, calls on the Government - clarify its position, as well as that of Infrabel and SNCB on the investments to be made to bring the GEN-lines 124 towards Nivelles and 161 towards Ottignies to four tracks and on the timetable for the completion of the works; - to allocate the necessary budgetary resources in the framework of the federal budgetary adjustment of March 2016 in order to enable the work to be completed as soon as possible in cooperation with the Regions; - to implement the accelerated introduction of the GEN by including that objective in the SNCB transport plan, as provided for in the Government Agreement (p. 215). A third motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries by Mr Marcel Cheron, Ms Catherine Fonck and Mr Olivier Maingain and the response of the Minister of Mobility, responsible for Belgocontrol and the National Society of Belgian Railways, - in view of the importance of RER 124 to Nivelles and 161 to Ottignies to improve mobility in Brussels and reduce congestion problems in car traffic; - given the importance for Walloon and Flemish commuters working in Brussels of the implementation of the ER; - given the importance, in addition to mobility, of the environment, health and quality of life of commuters; - given the importance of RER 124 to Nivelles and 161 to Ottignies for the economic development of our country and its capital; - having regard to the agreement of the federal government of 9 October 2014 that the implementation of the ER will be accelerated and integrated into the SNCB transport plan; - in view of the need to put lines 161 and 124 on four tracks to ensure a real offer of RER in terms of hourly frequency recommends to the federal government - to make the planned investments on lines RER 124 to Nivelles and 161 to Ottignies; - make a clear commitment to ensure that every effort is made to complete the ER within a reasonable period of time on lines 124 to Nivelles and 161 to Ottignies; - to comply with the cooperation agreement of 4 April 2003 which provides for the setting up of 4 lanes from Brussels to Ottignies and 124 from Brussels to Nivelles; - to review the 60/40 annual allocation key for investments in rail infrastructure so that it is implemented on a multiannual basis." A third motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: "The Chamber, Mr Marcel Cheron, Mrs Catherine Fonck and Mr Olivier Maingain and the reply of the Minister for Mobility, responsible for Belgocontrol and the National Society of the Belgian Railways, - having regard to the importance of GEN 124 towards Nivelles and 161 towards Ottignies for improving mobility in Brussels and reducing congestion; - having regard to the importance of the construction of the GEN for the Walloon and Flemish train users working in Brussels, - having regard to the importance of the GEN, not only for mobility but also for the environment, health and quality of life of train users; - having regard to the importance of the GEN lines 124 towards Nivelles and 161 towards Ottignies for the economic development of our country and its capital; - having regard to the Federal Government Agreement of 9 October 2014 which states that "the operation of the GEN will be accelerated and integrated into the SNCB transport plan'; - having regard to the need to bring lines 161 and 124 to four tracks in order to ensure a full and sufficiently frequent supply of GEN. strongly recommends the federal government - to undertake the planned investments on GEN lines 124 towards Nivelles and 161 towards Ottignies; - make an unequivocal commitment to make every effort to complete the GEN on lines 124 towards Nivelles and 161 towards Ottignies within a reasonable period of time; - respect the cooperation agreement of 4 April 2003, which provides for the four-tracking of lines 161 from Brussels to Ottignies and 124 from Brussels to Nivelles; - to revise the annual 60/40 key relating to investment in railway infrastructure so that it could be applied for several consecutive years.' A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Inez De Coninck and by Messrs. Emmanuel Burton et Jef Van den Bergh. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Inez De Coninck and Mr Emmanuel Burton and Mr Jef Van den Bergh. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
