ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic544x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, since Mrs Lalieux has to leave us early, I propose that she ask her questions first. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic544x.u2	Thank you, Mr President and colleagues. I really apologize for the inconvenience, but I have to table an amendment in another committee. Minister, you know that the work at the Théâtre Royal de la Monnaie was to be completed in 2016. Their end is now announced in September 2017. You know how much this work was needed and it's so much better if they started, thanks to the collaboration between the Régie des Bâtiments and Beliris. However, you are aware of the considerable cost to the Mint of accommodation on the Tours & Taxis website, even if it is beautiful. Minister, these are my questions. What are the problems associated with tendering? Was there resistance on the ground to planned investments? More generally, do you not believe that this third postponement of the completion of the work is detrimental to the image of the Mint?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic544x.u3	Mrs Lalieux, being a great opera lover, I am particularly interested in this issue of work at the Théâtre Royal de la Monnaie. I visited him a few weeks ago to learn about the progress of the work. What are the problems associated with a tender? Public procurement legislation rightly attaches great importance to the equal treatment of tenderers. As a result, in a number of cases, the award of a contract may be postponed until a decision is taken by the Council of State on a claim submitted, which obviously slows down the procedure. This was the case in the Mint file. I think it took about two years. Was there any resistance on the ground? The needs programme, which resulted in an award of work, was drawn up in close consultation and in agreement with the end-user, the Mint. Is the third postponement of the completion of the work detrimental to the image? In the course of the work, significant changes were made. This is not just the procedure in the Council of State. The members of the management of the Mint themselves have changed their request along the way; they will confirm it to you. It also caused a slowdown. I have instructed the Régie des Bâtiments to look for the origin of these requests in order to be able to situate the responsibility for the delay and the budgetary impacts. I look forward to the outcome of this investigation very soon. We are doing everything we can to complete the work for the new 2017-2018 opera season. I understand very well the problems this poses for the Mint, for Brussels and, more broadly, for Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic544x.u4	Minister, thank you. Indeed, since the operas are organized according to the rooms they own, they have had to redo certain types of opera or cancel the performances of certain directors. It's an extra cost. But you know how many linear cuts there have also been in the budgets. I would therefore like to make sure that all the budgetary problems and budgets related to this work will be well covered by the Régie and that there will be no additional costs for the Mint, because I think it will have a lot of difficulties in the years to come, given the three years of extra-muros that were not originally planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic544x.u5	Mr Minister, I have also asked your colleague Mrs Sleurs about this. The press echoed, to say the least, a surprising agreement between the Belgian State and the European Parliament for the transfer to the European Parliament of part of the house of the 19th-century painter-sculptor Antoine Wiertz, located in Brussels. Although the house and the garden are not part of the museum itself, they are still part of the Belgian heritage. Moreover, there had been a time to restore this heritage in very poor condition. The transfer of a historical property of the Belgian State raises fundamental questions and legitimate concerns about the government's management of a national heritage. Is it enough now that the Belgian State is not in a financial position to exploit a property to get rid of it? The question deserves to be asked. All the more so, when it is the Belgian government itself that organises its financial incapacity by drastically reducing the budgets allocated to the federal culture, thereby risking getting rid of an important asset for a symbolic euro. Reactions soon took place in the head of citizens, since in four days a petition about this very little-known building collected 2,000 signatures. In addition, the municipality of Ixelles sent you a letter ordering you to review the destiny of the garden. The commune argued that this garden, instead of being taken away from the Belgian heritage to make it an administrative place, should be made accessible to all citizens. So, Mr Minister, do you confirm the existence of such an agreement with the European Parliament? If so, does the assignment take into account museum specificities? What are the conditions for this agreement? Your colleague Elke Sleurs was unable to tell me the conditions attached to the agreement. Have the Royal Museums of Fine Arts, on which the Wiertz Museum depends, been consulted on this assignment and, above all, on the conditions? More generally, do you not consider that the role of the State is to protect its historical heritage rather than to rid itself of it? How do you respond to the proposal of the municipality of Ixelles to integrate the garden of the house into the green promenade of a project led by Beliris?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic544x.u6	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, as Mrs Lalieux mentioned, the press reported that the European Parliament had obtained the agreement of the Federal Government to extend its premises by taking possession, for the sum of a symbolic euro, of the property classified since 1977, which currently houses the Antoine Wiertz Museum in Ixelles. If I believe the documents I was able to read, an agreement would have been sealed so that the museum collections, owned by the federal state, could continue to be exposed to the public in their current location, namely the artist's workshop and garden, by reducing the space concerned. For their part, the services of the European Parliament would be housed in unoccupied premises. Deputy Prime Minister, like Mrs.Lalieux, we had the opportunity to question Minister Elke Sleurs, but she responded very partially. Can you confirm this information and, if necessary, provide me with the details of the agreement? What exactly is this real estate transaction that could be described as a public-public partnership, and what are the reasons for the sale of this classified property? What exactly are the decisions made regarding the accommodation and accessibility of federal collections? What is the planned schedule for this real estate operation? What is the status of the consultations on this matter with the ixelloese municipal authorities? I think the town of Ixelles has sent you a letter concerning the opening of the garden, but I think that was already planned. That is what Mrs Sleurs has told us. If that is indeed the case, I can only welcome the opening of an additional green space in my commune!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic544x.u7	Mrs Lalieux, Mr Calomne, with regard to the agreement with the European Parliament, the latter proposed to bear the costs of renovating the artist's former house, which is currently unoccupied, in exchange for free emphyteosis on this part of the property and for an occupation by Parliament. This proposal was analysed by the Régie des Bâtiments. An agreement in principle was reached with a view to preparing the emphyteotic lease and other documents to be presented in connection with the occupation of this unoccupied part of the Wiertz Museum. At the moment, no emphyteotic lease has been signed, but there is cooperation between the Régie des Bâtiments and the European institutions in order to establish such a contract setting out the rights and obligations of the parties. The Régie will thus have a right of examination in the renovation file. In the present case, therefore, there is a question of making the house available, which is currently unoccupied, to the benefit of the European Parliament. It requires heavy renovations and significant investment. Consequently, the house remains the property of the federal state and is subject to a temporary transfer of the right of use for the benefit of the European Parliament. The aim is to establish a public-public partnership between public institutions. To understand the museum's particularities, it is not the Wiertz museum as such, but only the artist's old home. The collection is not housed in this dwelling, but in the old workshop – which is not concerned by the contract of emphyteosis, so that nothing will change for the collection. Although the house is of no use for the current Wiertz museum, it will be established in the lease that the transfer of emphyteosis will not hinder the operation of the museum. As to whether the Royal Museums of Fine Arts have been consulted, the Régie des Bâtiments has contacted the director of the Royal Museums of Fine Arts concerning the intention to surrender the house in emphyteose to the European Parliament. This project will only promote the museum's visibility and outreach to the public. As far as the role of the State is concerned, the negotiations under way are aimed precisely at protecting the historical heritage of the Federal State. The use of historical heritage is the guarantee that it will be preserved at best. The lack of occupation resulting in the destruction of value, its occupation through this public-public partnership can only be beneficial to the museum. I would also like to remind you that the Régie des Bâtiments will follow the renovation work. It will ensure that the plans are respected, but also that they are done in accordance with the rules of art, so that this heritage remains in perfect condition. As far as the garden is concerned, the European Parliament has stated from the outset that, in the context of emphyteosis, it is prepared to study the possibility of opening the garden to the public. The opening of the garden is possible as long as the safety of the employees of the European Union is not compromised. Negotiations are still under way to see what can be done. As far as the agenda is concerned, the European Parliament will shortly submit its renovation dossier to the Régie des Bâtiments. After that, the emphyteotic lease can be finalized. As the case stands, the Brussels and Ixello authorities have not yet been consulted. As soon as the development of the dossier so requires, a consultation will be held with the local authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic544x.u8	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you. It is clear that these buildings need to be renovated. What we can regret is that the federal state does not bother to renovate these buildings to occupy them. I find it really regrettable to set up an administrative activity next to a museum when it could have been enlarged or, for example, artist's workshops could have been set up in this house. I also think that any type of occupation is not suitable next to a museum. You'll have to be careful. I did not hear what conditions were going to be imposed and whether the Royal Museums of Fine Arts were really going to be involved in the definition of these conditions. At the same time, I hear you say, what really frightens me, that it is the European Parliament that will study the possibilities of opening the garden. In the city of Brussels, I see the demands of the European Parliament and all these buildings closing, as I said earlier, instead of opening. I fear that without the obligation to open this garden by the federal state, the European Parliament will never open it. I ask you very clearly, as the trustee of the Régie, to impose on the European Parliament to open this garden for the Ixellois and others. It is part of a green walk financed by Beliris. This would be consistent in the federal jurisdiction. I very sincerely believe that we must not leave our hands to the European Parliament. Otherwise, I have no doubt that this garden will be closed. Finally, I think it is time to contact the authorities of Ixelles, since it is in the territory of this commune. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic544x.u9	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his very comprehensive answer. I took note that the house would remain the property of the federal state. It must be acknowledged, as Mrs Lalieux mentioned, that the building was heavily damaged. If the Régie cannot take charge of this, it is interesting to go through a public-public partnership, since it is indeed the European Parliament that will benefit from this temporary session, under the control of the Régie des Bâtiments. I also took note that the Régie des Bâtiments would follow as the construction site evolves to ensure that the work is carried out in accordance with the rules of the art, as you said, minister. As far as the garden is concerned, I understand that there are security reasons for doing so, but I also believe that the Régie des Bâtiments and the Federal State must ensure that this can be done at best, and that this openness can take place, not only for the benefit of the Ixellois but also of the European officials and the people who come to the neighbourhood. I think a little green in this office area is also an interesting element. In relation to the consultations, I take note of your willingness, when the partnership is well advanced, to consult with the local authorities. I am thinking in particular of the commune of Ixelles, but also, since we are at the border of different communes, the city of Brussels and the other communes that could be associated with it. We'll come back to this case when he's a little advanced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic544x.u10	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Top's 13362 was deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic544x.u11	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, some time ago, an investment of EUR 1 million was announced for the project to secure access to the Palais de Justice in Brussels. According to various sources, the new entries are expected to be operational on 15 July 2017. The plan would provide two secure accesses to the left and right of the main entrance, one for Justice staff and professionals, and the other for the public. These entries will be secured with scanners as can be found at airports, but also with surveillance cameras. I can only welcome this investment in the security of the Palais de Justice. It is also part of a new and broader renewal dynamic for this palace, a symbol of the Belgian judicial system. I come to my questions. In addition to securing the Palace, can you take stock of the other renovation and rehabilitation projects planned, both for the facades of the Palace and for the interior of the Palace and its surroundings? At the façade level, what is the status of the tender as announced in its time, and when is the start of the work planned? What is the current situation in terms of estimating needs for the justice and space functions available in the Palais, as well as on the Poelaert campus? Has an analysis already been carried out by the Justice FPS, as mentioned in your answer to a previous question last February? From the point of view of the redevelopment of the surroundings of the Palais and of the entire Poelaert campus, what are the projects considered priority on the table and what is their status? Thank you already for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic544x.u12	Mr President, Minister, the future of this iconic building has already been the subject of many questions. Indeed, we are faced with a curious paradox. It is the symbol of justice in our country and it was intended as such by its designer architect. But its abandonment for decades – I recognize here that this is not your policy – has earned it the World Monuments Fund's ranking as one of the fifty most threatened sites in the world. Unfortunately, the situation is well known. It is enough to visit the Palace of Justice to realize that we are not far from a situation that would make many people laugh or cry if more in-depth television reports were made about the condition of the building. Having said that, I note that there is still a political will to finally relaunch this dossier, which I can only rejoice at. Moreover, your colleague, Mr Geens, confirmed in the Committee on Justice on 24 February 2016 that the execution of the works and the renovation of the Palais de Justice in Brussels fell within your competence. He also confirmed the establishment of a working group. For your part, you announced the designation of a design office as part of a public procurement for the restoration of the facades of the Palais, pointing out that this market would be published in mid-2016. I don't know if there was a publication or not. You'll let me know in your answer. Otherwise, work on the first façade on the side of Poelaert Square and, consequently, the removal of scaffolding covering it will not be possible to begin within the announced deadlines, namely in 2018. As far as I am concerned, I am part of the generation that has still known the Palace of Justice without scaffolding, but this is not the case with Mr Calomne. In my opinion, it takes more than 50 years for this to happen. On 24 October, you and the Minister of Justice confirmed the existence of an agreement with the City of Brussels and the Brussels Region on the maintenance of the judicial function of the Palais de Justice in Brussels and its restoration accordingly, which I approve. It was also announced that a feasibility study would take place over the two years prior to the start of the renovation. Minister, who will proceed with the feasibility study of the renovation of the Palais de Justice? Has a bidder been identified? Is the public procurement procedure for the renovation of the facades of the Palais de Justice suspended, which would be unfortunate? I think we should try to move forward on both sides. How much do you estimate the cost of this renovation? I recognize that this may be a trap because I believe you will discover many surprises during construction in a building as historic as this one. When will the Masterplan on the future of the building be presented to the Council of Ministers? What are the main lines of action? Is it based on the recommendations of the Poelaert Foundation, whose work and role it has played in finally getting this dossier out of limbo? How long will it take to maintain the façades? When will the renovation work start and end, knowing that two and a half years of work would be required per façade? Can we consider starting with the main façade, the one that is most significant in terms of visibility for a number of justice actors?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic544x.u13	Mr President, gentlemen, with regard to the building as a whole, following the conclusion of the consultant appointed to study the possibility of providing for other functions in the base of the building, a new note will be proposed to the Council of Ministers – I hope again this year. The latter suggests keeping the criminal chain within the Palace and the abduction of the exhibits. Approval for the designation of a multidisciplinary study team will also be proposed. The study office would be responsible for the overall study of the renovation, renovation and restoration of the Palais. To be very honest, I have never understood why it is necessary to plan commercial functions in this building and rent the buildings around for the chain of justice. This building is the symbol of justice. You may be surprised, but I think this building is an icon. Koen Geens and I agree: this building must be entirely devoted to justice, without any further madness! The public procurement for the designation of an office of study specializing in the restoration of facades is under development and is expected to be published in the first half of 2017. The start of the study, part 1, is planned for September 2017. The first results are expected a year later. The first works can then begin, but this will naturally depend on the speed with which the city of Brussels will issue the required permits. It's always the same story. Priority will be given to the restoration of the main façade on Place Poelaert. There is also a request that, like what is done elsewhere in the restoration of a monument, scaffolding be covered with a tarpaulin illustrated with the expected result. I am in favour of that idea. We're seeing if it's feasible. The restoration studies of the facades will therefore be carried out independently of the specific studies for the renovation of the interior of the building. These are two different routes for the interior, with the functions of justice, and the renovation of the facades. But as you know thanks to the presence of scaffolding, the maintenance of the facades is under way. At this stage, it is difficult to estimate the cost of renovation of facades without the results of future studies. This is, on the one hand, the study on the exterior restoration of the facades and, on the other, the study on the interior adaptation of the building for the integration of the criminal chain. This work will be completed before the end of the year, hoping that weather conditions will not cause delays. The Régie des Bâtiments has taken the initiative to launch this maintenance work as has been the case in the past. These include facade maintenance, weed removal, removal of unstable elements, and repair of defective joints. Various renovation and rehabilitation projects are planned. Two courtrooms are being restored as a result of water infiltrations. Escape pictograms are placed everywhere in the Palace at the moment. A graffiti abduction campaign has been carried out and there will be others. The list of small works is huge. A team from the Régie des Bâtiments is responsible for the follow-up of requests and planned work. With regard to the redevelopment of the outskirts of the palace, all the projects mentioned in the above replies, namely the global redevelopment, the restoration of the facades and the removal of exhibits, go together. When will the masterplan be presented to the Council of Ministers? Very soon, in the next few weeks. The broad lines aim to preserve the cell complex, as well as the separate circulation for magistrates and detainees. The correctional chain could also remain, and the recommendations of the Poelaert Foundation will be included in the future study contract, but will not form part of the memorandum to the Council of Ministers. I was invited to a meeting with, among others, the Poelaert Foundation. During this debate, it was said that we would have an accompanying committee for all this work. I am ready to invite the members of the Poelaert Foundation, because I find that their vision is quite compatible with what Koen Geens and I think. In order to estimate the needs, this is the current situation. In order to estimate the space available in the palace and on the Poelaert campus, surveys of all the buildings concerned are required. To this end, a framework contract has been published for the buildings around Poelaert Square and a call for tenders will be launched shortly for the global survey of the palace. With regard to the needs programme, we do not have updated figures from the Justice FPS, but only figures from 2003, which were extrapolated as a result of the split of BHV. That's the file that's coming back! That is the current situation. To me, this building must be a building of justice. There is a need to centralize services as much as possible. I find it stupid enough to have so many empty spaces and to rent buildings around Poelaert Square. It costs a huge amount, with which we could already do something within the building.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic544x.u14	Minister, thank you for your full answer. I can only rejoice to hear you confirm that this building is indeed an icon of justice, to use your words. The political world is almost unanimous in recognizing that this building must now be dedicated exclusively to judicial functions. I think your colleague Geens is on the same page. In addition, justice professionals were attentive to this issue. Engaging the Poelaert Foundation in your future endeavours helps bring this project together. I see that the file is moving forward, certainly slowly, but it is taking shape. To bounce back on the words of Mr. Maingain, who again knew the courthouse without scaffolding, I would like to contemplate him in this way! Even though I have taken note that, during the work, you could have a tarpaulin installed, it should not be too beautiful to cover the palace. It is important to show, in any case, that this project is progressing. Beyond the judicial and political world, Brussels and Belgian citizens are waiting for this flagship of national heritage to regain its letters of nobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic544x.u15	Mr Minister, I very much welcome the political will shown. When there is convergence, I can only emphasize it. The Brussels political world is unanimous in its support for this approach. Moreover, when you have adopted the masterplan, it would be nice of you to communicate it to Parliament. Then I'll give you some advice. From my experience of the Monuments and Sites in Brussels, I can tell you that they are particularly demanding. You know that there is the administration and the Commission of Monuments and Sites. The latter is extremely rigorous and pointy. We can talk endlessly about whether it's still well-founded, but we must recognize that she has excellent experts. The Régie des Bâtiments must know this, since this is not the first time that it has been working on the renovation of a classified heritage. If you do not set up a follow-up group with the said Commission and the competent departments of the City and the Region to follow all the steps, I can tell you that the project will get bogged down. It is better to have each of its stages approved by the Commission des Monuments et Sites, otherwise you will experience some difficulties.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic544x.u16	Are you a mayor, Mr. Delannois?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic544x.u17	Bourgmaster acting, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic544x.u18	Which commune is this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic544x.u19	Turn. I would like to tell the minister a lot about this because behind this small field there are a lot of stakes. And I hope that the minister will answer one day. Don't worry, it's not just for the vegetable garden that I ask the question! Minister, I know that since the tabling of my question in September, meetings have taken place. I come back to you again concerning the project of a collective of citizens wishing to carry out, temporarily, certain small adjustments on the military field of the Luchet d'Antoing in Tournai. The Régie des Bâtiments has focused its interest on this land in view - and it is you who say so - of a possible, I say possible, construction of an administrative center in Tournai. Clearly, the new courthouse that I would so much like to see come; but I don't know if you'll ever announce it to me. This acquisition could not yet be realized today and is being postponed for your 2017 investment program. So, to put it simply, we are facing a possible project that is lagging behind. In parallel with the government decisions that should one day fall on the future of this field, a group of citizens is mobilizing. He proposes to set up a part of the land in order to make use of a whole area of light facilities allowing to create a link and to energize life in community. Minister, in my last speech on the subject, you seemed inclined to find a solution that would allow the collective to make small temporary arrangements through an agreement. Your firm has recently received a letter from this citizens' committee. I even think there were meetings, too. Can you give us an update on the situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic544x.u20	Mr Delannois, the acquisition of the land concerned has not, to date, been possible because the reorganization of the judicial districts announced at the beginning of 2015 by the Minister of Justice is still, at the end of 2016, in the process of reflection within the judicial districts and is somewhat delaying the decision-making on the future of the judicial institutions, in particular Tournaisiennes. As it does not own the land, the Régie des Bâtiments cannot oppose a precarious occupation of the site pending a formal decision by the Justice on the reform of its judicial districts. Only the Defence could give you permission for any development by this citizens' committee. A meeting on the subject took place on 15 November between the said committee, my cabinet, the Defence Committee and the Régie des Bâtiments. The Defence Cabinet and the committee, with the support of my firm, will develop an agreement on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic544x.u21	Minister, thank you. We will indeed try to find a solution. You still admit that, since 2015, we've been thinking, in the law firm, about what we're going to do with this land. I often like to remember that several ministers have already come almost with the first stone to inaugurate the future courthouse. And today, we're wondering if we're going to acquire land, what we're going to do with it, etc. Minister, in the coming months there will be a Dalí exhibition on surrealism in Tournai. I'll invite you to it. I think that the whole development of this issue could eventually be on the front line. I thank you, in any case, for the support you have given to this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic544x.u22	Mr President, Minister, I come back to you regarding the creation of the new courthouse in Nivelles. A consultation meeting of the Commission des bâtiments de la justice nivelloise was held a few weeks ago and a date for the inauguration of the annex to Palace 2, which is already functional, has been advanced; there is a potential inauguration in 2020. The consolidation of all services has been mentioned for several years now. This decision is sensible because it will facilitate the proper functioning of the justice system in Nice. In addition, this project could allow the State to recover money by reselling the buildings that currently house the civil court of first instance and the family court. Your colleague, the Minister of Justice, has informed us that the progress of this matter is indeed a matter for the Régie des Bâtiments, which must make choices as to the work to be carried out. Minister, do you confirm that the gathering of all services into a single building is one of your priorities and those of the Régie? Do you confirm the information that the new Nivelles courthouse could be inaugurated in 2020? Finally, can you tell us whether the planned work will be financed on its own funds or whether a public-private partnership is envisaged in this dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic544x.u23	Mr Crusnière, in June 2016, the Régie des Bâtiments was confirmed by the SPF Justice: the plan to extend the courthouse in Nivelles is not affected by the plan to reform the judicial districts As a result, the committee for the acquisition of buildings is currently expropriating the land to accommodate the new courthouse. In order to continue the project, the Justice FPS still has to provide the Régie with an updated needs programme, taking into account, inter alia, the new requirements for surface standards per agent. The Régie des Bâtiments supports justice in this context. On the basis of similar projects, it can be estimated that the building will be made available in four to five years, depending on the method of financing and implementation chosen. As for the method of financing, it will be determined when the Régie has a perfect knowledge of the needs requested. It will thus be able to determine the necessary work. My services are working on this project and increasing the pressure on the Justice FPS to know their needs. With regard to the purchase of land, the Committee for the Acquisition of Buildings is working on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic544x.u24	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am pleased to see that, indeed, the consolidation of all services at one location is beginning to move forward. However, I'm worried that we're turning the ball back. When I ask the Minister of Justice, he tells me that the bullet is in the camp of the Régie. When I ask you about the position of the Régie, you tell me that you are waiting to know the needs of the Minister of Justice. That's a little disturbing. I'll keep putting pressure on each other to get this case moving. You're talking about four to five years, but the sooner the better to improve the justice services in Nivelles and the Walloon Brabant.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic544x.u25	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Smaers' 14786 will be converted into a written question. We have no news from Mrs Uyttersprot. Her question No. 149445 is therefore deleted. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lahaye-Battheu's 15012 will also be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic544x.u26	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, the press has echoed the sale of the Tour des Finances, located in the Brussels region. This building is now owned by a Dutch private group and houses many FPS Finance services under a lease contract that runs until December 31, 2034. Also, my questions will be relatively brief. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, do you confirm or reverse the rumours in the press about a possible scenario for the takeover of the Tour des Finances by the state? In general, could the Finance Tower resale scenario have a potential impact on the current lease? Do the terms of the lease immunize the federal state against any negative impact? Finally, can you briefly remind us of the annual amounts provided for under the lease of occupation of the Tower of Finance?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic544x.u27	Mr Calomne, the Régie des Bâtiments is not aware of a possible sale of the Tower of Finance and can overturn rumours of a possible takeover by the state if this sale were to be considered. The contract and its amendments have been registered and submitted for transcription by notarial act and are therefore enforceable against third parties in the event of a sale. However, the Régie des Bâtiments, as a tenant, has no influence on this type of transaction. As regards the annual amounts, the current rent is EUR 54,499,067.26. Real estate taxes and pre-payment amount to €7,151,241.1. As regards the reimbursement of the first installation work, the first maturity had to be paid for 4 September 2009 and the last will take place on 4 September 2019: 4,874,011.7 euros from the Régie des Bâtiments and 1,519,288.12 euros from the occupant.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic544x.u28	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-30-54-commissie-ic544x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your presence and the answers to the questions. That concludes this sitting.
