ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic543x.u1	Mr President, Minister, I would like to question you following an incident at the prison a few weeks ago following an inmate's testimony on a television show about radicalization in prisons. One inmate was beaten by other inmates. This incident is challenging in more than one way. First, it raises the question of the possible protection of persons who testify anonymously. Secondly, it raises questions about the functioning of the prison. Indeed, the incident lasted for some time and the guards were slow to intervene. The questions relate to how these types of incidents are managed and the actual opportunities that guards have to respond to them. Minister, can you give us a summary of the incident with the information you have in your possession? I know that an investigation has been opened. Were any special protective measures taken in favour of the detainee concerned? Finally, it has been said that these acts were committed by prisoners in the wing for radicalized Ittre, but it turns out that this is not the case, as the latter have no contact with the other detainees. I would therefore like to take this question and ask you to take stock of the functioning of this particular wing for radicalized prisoners in Ittre prison.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic543x.u2	There was also a visit to Ittre prison for some parliamentarians. I was there. It was a coincidence that I ran into the inmate in question. However, we did not have the opportunity to discuss the problem raised. I am not going to repeat what our colleague has just said. Minister, do you have more information and clarification about this attack on Saturday, November 5th? What exactly happened? In my question, I also inquired about the inmate's state of health. Having seen him at the turn of a corridor, I think he's getting better, apparently anyway. Have all the attackers been identified and heard by management? Are they being punished as a result of this aggression? Have any measures been taken to prevent further attacks or violent events, possibly related to the report to which Mr. Crusnière referred.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic543x.u3	Colleagues, the facts in some media are not confirmed. A fight took place during a run-out at Ittre prison but did not have radical Islamist detainees as protagonists. Three detainees beat another inmate. He was admitted to the hospital in Tubize on Saturday, before returning to prison on Sunday. On Monday, he complained of headaches but had no visible wounds. The three attackers were heard by management and disciplined. They all misunderstood the racist statements and amalgams expressed by the inmate who they attacked. Nor is it confirmed that the trigger of the incident was the anonymous testimony of an inmate on this television show. He was told by the management that the inmate attacked denied having participated in the television programme in question. The anonymity of the witness was also respected by all parties. Prison staff continue to pay close attention to the relationship between detainees. It's about his personal safety. Situations where surveillance staff report potential difficulties are legion. It is also not uncommon for inmates themselves to inform staff of the difficulties they face. These observations enable prison management to take the necessary preventive measures. However, it is very difficult to take preventive measures in situations triggered by press articles or television broadcasts. The reactions are then curative and depend on the fact that the prison workers were able to learn about these reports; this is not always the case. In the specific case to which the question relates, it turns out that the detainee, although aware of the threats against him, went to the meadow with an artisanal sling and used his right of preau without informing the persons who could have taken protective measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic543x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for this lighting. Indeed, it is regrettable that some amalgams in prisons are causing more and more tension. This is not only the case in Ittre, but of course in other prisons as well. I was asking you another question about the functioning of the radicalized inmate wing, to which you did not answer. This wing has been open for a few months now. I'll ask you again about that. What stopped me, in the feedback I had on these incidents, is the guards' point. You may have heard similar comments during your recent visit, Mr. President. The guards tell us that when this type of incident occurs under the preau, they do not intervene, because they are not numerous enough to deal with it. This is an issue that needs to be addressed and addressed at some point.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic543x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic543x.u6	Mr Minister, according to the report of one of the hearings of the alleged terrorist Mohamed Abrini, to whom the editor of the investigation program Pano on the VRT had access, weapons intended to perpetrate the attacks in Paris and Brussels would still be in our country. Mohamed Abrini is, as you know, the third terrorist at Zaventem airport, which was not finally detonated. He managed to escape before being apprehended on 8 April. Unlike Salah Abdeslam, who prefers to remain silent, Mohamed Abrini has already made several statements, notably about caches that have sheltered terrorists in Belgium. The detainee also stated that he and other accomplices felt chased by the police. The group then decided to split up and leave the safe house on Henri Bergé Street in Schaerbeek. Part of the band went to a dwelling on Avenue de l'Exposure in Jette. Mohamed Abrini said during his interrogation: "Ibrahim El Bakraoui's brother, Mr. Salah, I know he went to another address to hide, but where, I don't know." According to him, messages sent from a prison warned them of new police actions: "We then left our hiding place in Jette, because a message from a prison told us to leave because it was getting too hot". Moreover, according to Abrini, the terrorist network still has weapons hidden in a car box. Again I quote Abrin's supposed statements: "I confirm to you that there were weapons in all the apartments. (...) They were recovered one or two days before the attacks in Brussels. Khalid El Bakraoui has displaced them. I know he had a garage box where he was hiding hydrogen peroxide and other business. But I don't know where this box or what it contains exactly. There are three or four Kalashnikov, a compressed air rifle, and explosives C-4. He took it all in a bag." Last June, the public prosecutor searched 152 garage boxes in Brussels - without success. In Pano's report, OCAM director Paul Van Tigchelt still states that today he cannot exclude the presence of weapons and explosives in Brussels or elsewhere in our country. Minister, these revelations lead me to ask you the following questions. First of all, how could a hearing report by Mohamed Abrini end up in the hands of a press agency? Indeed, everything I have just spoken to you about is reflected in the information released by the investigation program Pano. Do you confirm the statements made by Abrini? Have the sources from the prisons been identified that informed the alleged terrorists, as reported by Abrini? Have the weapons mentioned by Abrini been found? What action plan has been put in place to trace the weapons and explosives that are in illegal circulation in our territory?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic543x.u7	Mr President, Mr Vanden Burre, with regard to the facts relating to the investigation into the attacks and possible leaks in the press, the secrecy of the investigation and the separation of powers do not allow me to make any statements on this subject. With regard to the violation of investigative secrecy and professional secrecy, I am in favour of a substantial increase in the rate of punishment in article 458 of the Criminal Code and, at the same time, of adding the violation of the secrecy of the criminal investigation to the list of measures to listen to article 90ter of the Code of Criminal Investigation. I have the ambition to propose the necessary legislative amendments by way of amendments in the context of the forthcoming examination of the pot-pourri IV law. With regard to your questions concerning the possession of weapons, ammunition and explosives, I would like first of all to refer to the enlargement already achieved of article 90ter of the Code of Criminal Investigation, which now allows for telephone taps for offences involving the manufacture and illegal possession of weapons. I have also reinvigorated the Inter-federal Coordinating Committee on Combating the Illegal Production of and Trade in Arms. By working with all relevant actors, a multidisciplinary approach can be put in place, which includes, inter alia, a mutual exchange of information and concrete strategic recommendations. In addition, the draft law amending the Arms Act is in the final stage of discussion on the basis of its first reading. In particular, it will contain a provision on firearms loaders so that they are no longer on the open market. This will fill a significant gap. Finally, I would like to refer to the bill introduced by representatives Raf Terwingen, Servais Verherstraeten and Sonja Becq to establish a regime for repentants in our criminal law. I support this proposal in some investigations for which the other methods of investigation are exhausted. Such a regime can ensure that crucial information, for example about weapons caches, is provided to justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic543x.u8	Minister, thank you for your answers. Indeed, the leaks concerning the investigation are very worrying. I myself sit on the committee of inquiry following the attacks of 22 March and, too often, the press must be used to obtain reliable information, because we ourselves do not have access to it. That's a cause for concern. Moreover, the illegal circulation and trafficking of arms is also a real concern. My group has denounced her since the Paris attacks of Charlie Hebdo. Bills are currently being discussed in the Counter-Terrorism Committee. I hope that you will be able to support them when the time comes, because the fight against illegal arms trafficking in Belgium is a priority in the fight against terrorism. We know our country is a hub in this traffic.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic543x.u9	Mr President, I do have a large number of questions. This probably gave the firm a lot of work. I'm sorry. I presented the questions sequentially, in chronological order. I see they're joined. I hope I get an answer. Since our Parliament has decided on the principle of setting up a committee of inquiry, I suppose we will have the opportunity to discuss it again. Minister, I am basing myself on your response of 16 November 2011 to the prosecutor's decision to appeal the decision of 18 February 2011 of the board to refer most of the Kazakhgate defendants to the correctional court. You stated more precisely in your reply that, in the case in question, the appeal was brought after consultation between the King's Prosecutor and the Attorney General against the order of the Chamber of Counsel of 18 February 2011, because this order, in addition to the dismissal of the main accused, was not in conformity with the prosecutor's request; the Chamber of Counsel declared part of the public action inadmissible. I continue to wonder about this decision to appeal. I would like to know more about this request. Mr Minister, in the final stage before the Chamber of Counsel, has the Public Prosecutor's Office requested or proposed, pursuant to the Act of 22 June 1964, section 3, the suspension of the sentence in favour of the accused? The prosecutor's office may indeed require it, it is his freedom. If so, what justified this proposal to suspend delivery? Is that why the Public Prosecutor's Office appealed, since this request was rejected by the Chamber of Counsel by referring the three defendants to the Correctional Court? I am surprised that the prosecution considers it not a good decision to refer the accused to the correctional court. Finally, before the indictment chamber and after the transaction of 17 June 2016, did the Attorney-General's Office accept the principle of the limitation of prosecution? Technical but nevertheless important issue. That was the first question, Mr. President. I turn to the question concerning the circular of the Attorneys General 3/2011 of 18 May 2011, which you provided us with a copy of last Wednesday, and the question of the exceptional circumstances that would have justified the criminal transaction in this file Chodiev. The circular referred to the possibility for the King's prosecutors and labour auditors, in very exceptional circumstances, if they considered it necessary to propose such a criminal transaction, to submit a detailed report to the Attorney General justifying these particular circumstances and to seek his consent in advance. You then stated that, given that in the case at issue the criminal transaction was applied by the Attorney General's Office, there is no report from the King's Prosecutor to the Attorney General to request the criminal transaction. In this case, it is in the absence of a detailed report that a criminal transaction was concluded on 17 June 2011 in the Chodiev case, in contradiction with the instructions of the Minister of Justice relayed by the Attorneys General not to apply the possibility of amicable transaction in criminal matters before the entry into force of the so-called corrective law in August 2011. Minister, what is your opinion on the failure of the Brussels Attorney General in June 2011 to comply with the request of the then Minister of Justice, your colleague, Mr. De Clercq, not to apply article 216 bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation before the entry into force of the restorative law in August 2011? In the absence of a detailed report on the situation, on the basis of what substantive arguments has the Attorney-General decided to conclude a transaction? Have the Attorney General and the first lawyer formally agreed to this transaction? What particular circumstances, if any, justified such a transaction? I would also like to ask you, Minister, about the legality of the transaction concluded on 17 June 2011 and confirmed by a judgment of the Court of Appeal on 30 June. The first version of the law might not achieve its objective because, in important tax and social matters, there are almost always fakes in writing, as you explained last Wednesday. However, there are false entries in this particular file. The said corrective law extending the scope of the law, was adopted on 11 July 2011 and came into force on 21 August 2011, ten days after its publication in the Monitor, according to the information you provided me at the commission of 9 November 2011. However, it also appears from your reply of 16 November 2001 that the PV containing the extended criminal transaction agreement in the Chodiev case was signed on 17 June and that the Indictments Chamber found that the public action had been terminated by a judgment of 30 June 2001, before the law which would have allowed it entered into force. In other words, according to my analysis and in full transparency, the criminal transaction concluded on 17 June 2011 had no legal basis. Mr Minister, can you tell me on what legal basis the extended criminal transaction agreement was signed on 17 June 2011, which chamber took the judgment of 30 June 2011 declaring compliance with the agreement and, I quote: "the termination of public action"? Which judges were in this chamber? Has there been any review of the legality of the transaction by these judges and what conclusions have been reached? Were the judges making up this chamber unanimous in relation to the legality of the transaction? Is there any difference of opinion? What is the legal possibility of setting aside this judgment, if it has indeed been adopted on illegal grounds? Has the appropriateness of such a cancellation been studied? Minister, I would also like to ask you about the very content of this criminal transaction concluded on 17 June 2011. You confirmed that the PV containing the expanded criminal transaction agreement in this file was signed on 17 June 2011 and ratified on 30 June 2011. What did the intended criminal transaction agreement contain? Does or does not this agreement include an admission of guilt of the accused? Can the said agreement be communicated to the House? Under what conditions? We're talking about a sum of €23 million paid by the defendants. Do you confirm that? We talk about it often, but does it really exist? What does it correspond to? How was it calculated? Is this a fine or taxes simply due? Was an ISI agreement on the amount to be paid necessary? Was it requested? Was it obtained? Was the amount paid by the defendants, on what date? Irrespective of the amount of the transaction in question, did the accused have to pay previously unpaid taxes? For what amount? When? Let me turn to my next question. A question I asked you last week did not get an answer. A very well-documented article from the newspaper Le Soir on November 14 came back to this issue. This article explained, in particular, on the basis of extracts from a report of the hearing of the French lawyer in the case, Mrs Degoul, heard on 2 June at the financial centre of the Paris Public Prosecutor's Office, that the Belgian lawyers in the case sent by e-mail to the Advocate General a draft criminal transaction with its annexes and a draft indictment. According to Le Soir, the lawyer stated in the PV: "With regard to the draft indictment, I was told that this was done in Belgium. I was surprised. In France, that would not have come to my mind." As a Member of Parliament, that would not have come to my mind either. For this reason, I am concerned about the functioning of justice. Minister, are you in a position to confirm or deny the words of this French lawyer, relayed by the newspaper Le Soir? Have the summons and the proposed transaction of the Chodiev file been drawn up by the Advocate General or by the lawyers of the defendants? Is it the norm in Belgium to rely on a requisition or a draft transaction drawn up by the defendants' lawyers? Is this not a risk? Shouldn't it be banned? According to a very recent information published on the website of the Vif/L'Express, on Monday 21 November, the substitute who is conducting the investigation at the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office into the Chodiev case would be on sick leave for a long period of time. I wish him a speedy recovery, but, nevertheless, given the importance of the file, it is necessary to ensure its continuity and its rapid completion, as it arouses a lot of media, political and citizens. Minister, do you confirm the long-term absence of the substitute? What measures are being taken by the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office to ensure the continuity of the case and its rapid completion? I move on to the penultimate question, which could have been disjointed, because it is a little different. As part of your response to several questions on Wednesday, 16 November, you informed us that, according to the information you were able to obtain on the basis of a manual count, only a case beyond the Chodiev file was the subject of a criminal amicable transaction between May and August 2011, within the jurisdiction of the Antwerp Court of Appeal. I did some research. Is this not a case concerning the Banque Société Générale, which we were talking about in an article in the Tate, Mr. Lars Bové here, dated 22 July 2011, that is before the entry into force of the correcting law? Could I get more details about this transaction? Do you confirm that this was the file mentioned? With regard to this case, has the transaction been the subject of a detailed prior report, as set out in the Prosecutors General's Circular? What exceptional circumstances justified it? In June 2011, since the so-called "repairing" law is not yet applicable, can you tell me whether or not the facts referred to in this case corresponded to the substantive scope of the law as it existed on that date? My last question concerns an essential element in our view, namely, the way in which the possibility of entering into amicable criminal transactions has been applied since the amendment of section 216bis of the Criminal Code, which has been broken by the Constitutional Court in the meantime. You informed us, last Wednesday, that following the entry into force of a joint circular of the Minister of Justice and the College of Attorneys General of 30 May 2012, criminal transactions have been registered specifically in order to allow the Public Prosecutor's Office, if necessary, to report on the number of criminal transactions or those that have been refused. This was a question that, together with my colleague from Groen, Stefaan Van Hecke, we have regularly asked you without a satisfactory answer. I would like to reiterate this by taking advantage of the current attention on the matter. Can you communicate to me on this basis, by judicial district and by year – I accept the written answer – the number of criminal transactions accepted and refused, as well as the total amounts paid by the defendants concerned? I would like to know more about the evaluation that has been carried out on the application of the amicable criminal transaction. What are the main conclusions? I hope I didn't get too tired of the auditors and the minister's office. These are issues that I think are important. I hope you will also be told that you were last Wednesday. This has not always been the case in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic543x.u10	Minister, last week, following the various questions that we asked you, as part of your answer and in application of the circular that was made or the circulars of each of the attorneys general, you told us that there was, at the very least, the transaction carried out within the framework of the Kazakhgate. This transaction was to be the subject of a detailed report with particular circumstances. You mentioned a second case. You told us that there was some difficulty in collationing all the elements in this area. A week has passed. So that we can mark up the debate on the future parliamentary committee of inquiry that could be set up since an agreement from the House seems to have been reached, which will prevent us from continuing to flood you with questions, could you tell me whether, in the meantime, you have been able to establish the number of detailed reports that would have been prepared to make use of the criminal transaction during the period May to August 2011?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic543x.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on how to deal with this issue, I am fully in line with the statement made by the Prime Minister at the plenary sitting of the House on Thursday, 17 November, when he said that the government would cooperate to clarify the facts that have been raised. It is in this spirit that I have answered, in the last three weeks, in the most comprehensive way possible, the various questions relating to this file and its related elements. I will proceed in the same way today, even if you will allow me to refer to some of the answers already given. In reply to Mr Massin's question on the application of the 2011 transaction, I indicated at last week's committee, in response to a question from Mr Gilkinet, that the Brussels Attorney General had reported at least two cases during the interim period between 16 May 2011 and 11 August 2011. As far as the Chodiev file is concerned, I refer to my reply last week. With regard to the second case under the jurisdiction of the Antwerp Court of Appeal, the Attorney-General of Antwerp informed me that on 30 May 2011, the Magistrate of the Public Prosecutor's Office, with the authorization of the King's Prosecutor, prepared a detailed report to the Attorney-General requesting permission to enter into a criminal transaction. This authorization was granted. I come to Mr Gilkinet's question about Kazakhgate. On the case which was the subject of a criminal transaction during the interim period, within the jurisdiction of the Antwerp Court of Appeal, which I have just mentioned, the Attorney General of Antwerp indicates to me the following: The criminal record of the resort of Antwerp in which an extended friendly settlement was proposed in the period from May to August 2011 concerns indeed the file on which a press article was published in De Tijd of 22 July 2011. This is therefore the case concerning Société Générale. He further states, still in Dutch: The proposal for an extended friendly settlement was issued on 10 June 2011. The case was at the stage of the settlement of court proceedings before the Board of Appeal and the case was established on 17 June 2011 as an opening session for the establishment of the procedural agenda. It should be noted that the extended friendly settlement proposal issued on 10 June 2011 concerned only two legal entities against which only a fine and a forfeiture could have been claimed. The possible dissolution of the legal person or any other sanction provided for in Article 7a of the Criminal Code was not dealt with in this regard. With regard to question No. 15141 by Mr. Gilkinet, concerning the conduct of the Kazakhgate investigation, the Attorney General indicated to me the following: "I am in a position to confirm to you the absence of the magistrate dealing with the case in question. This absence is unrelated to the contents of the file. The Prosecutor of the King of Brussels is following this case personally and has taken all measures to ensure that this investigation is not delayed." With regard to Mr Gilkinet's question No 15142 on the criminal transaction of 17 June 2011 in the Chodiev case, the Prosecutor General of Brussels has indicated to me the following: "Parliament's question No 15142 by Mr Gilkinet cannot be answered if the proceedings before the Chamber of Indictments take place in camera and is therefore covered by professional secrecy. The record of the transaction, the contents of which are contained in the indictment of the Public Prosecutor's Office being annexed to the judgment of the indictment chamber of 30 June 2011 declaring the public action to be terminated, is also covered by this secret. However, I can tell you that the preventive measures taken against accused persons were not of a fiscal nature." Mr Gilkinet's question No 15143 on the drafting of the text of the criminal transaction of 17 June 2011 indicated to me the following: "In response to parliamentary question No 15143 by Mr Gilkinet, I have no objective evidence suggesting that the criminal transaction in question by Mr Chodiev et al. was drafted by the defendants' lawyers. However, in the context of the expanded criminal transaction, it should be noted that it is essentially within the framework of the negotiated justice system, since the accused must agree to the content of the transaction. It is therefore normal for prior contacts to take place between the presiding magistrate and the defence lawyer(s) but also civil parties, social or tax administrations. This is all the more necessary since defence lawyers must obtain authorization from their clients to be able to sign the minutes on their behalf. It is therefore absolutely not abnormal that the draft minutes of criminal transactions should be sent to the defence counsel before they are signed. It is certainly not possible to deduce from this indispensable practice that it is the defence lawyers who draft the minutes of criminal transactions." With regard to Mr Gilkinet's question No 15144 on the exceptional circumstances which would have justified the criminal transaction in the Chodiev case, I quote in Dutch what the Prosecutor-General of Brussels has told me. The first question was answered last week. The Minister of Justice's communication of 2 May 2011 to the College of Attorneys General that it was appropriate for the proper functioning of the law of 14 April 2011 on the extended friendly settlement and the future repair law to apply together and that the application of the provisions contained in the law would be delayed until the repair law was published, should be read in conjunction with the reply of 26 May 2011 from the President of the College of Attorney General that, with regard to the waiting attitude to the repair law as well, he shall join the view of his counterparts in Brussels and Antwerp, with the possibility of an extended friendly settlement not completely excluded but subject to a special justification and to be submitted to the parquet general for agreement. I quote it again, but the content is, this time, in French: "A request by a Minister of Justice not to execute a law that has entered into force, passed by Parliament, would hardly be compatible with the constitutional principle of respect for the separation of powers. The request of the then Minister of Justice could not and was not interpreted by the College of Attorneys General as a request not to apply the law but rather as a pragmatic request. The circular of the Attorney General of Brussels regulating the temporary situation pending the vote and the entry into force of a law amending the scope of the criminal transaction was intended to allow a very measured application of the law in force. Thus, the will of the then minister was reconciled with the principle of the separation of powers. As for the agreement of the Attorney General and the first Advocate General on the transaction in the Chodiev case, in my reply of 15 November 2016 to parliamentary questions Nos. 14932, 14956, 14965, 14966, 14981 and 14982: The Attorney General and the First Advocate General were duly informed by the magistrate of the parquet general of the progress of the procedure and of the amicable settlement of the matter. So much for the quote in the reply of 15 November. I continue the quotation in French: "As the public prosecutor's office is one and indivisible, it was with the agreement of his head of corps that the transaction was concluded by the magistrate holding the public prosecutor's office". I answer Mr Gilkinet's question No 15145 concerning amicable criminal transactions concluded since the amendment of Article 216bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation. With regard to the number of criminal transactions accepted following the entry into force of the Joint Circular of the Minister of Justice and the College of Attorneys General of 30 May 2012, I am able to inform you that at the request of the previous Minister of Justice, an evaluation report has been requested by the College of Attorneys General of the Criminal Policy Service of the FPS Justice. This was done precisely with the aim of having a view of what was being practiced in this area in order to be able to assess in a transparent way whether the devices should be corrected. This assessment contained both quantitative elements and a qualitative analysis of the application of Circular COL 6/2012 on the expansion of the criminal transaction. The figures that have been used are based on a manual record, since the coming into force of the 2011 laws. This nuance is important. In view of the lack of uniformity in registration, it was decided, in particular at the request of the authors, to draft new uniform registration guidelines, which led to COL 23/2014 providing guidelines for the registration of expanded transactions in the REA/TPI system of the Correctional Prosecution Service. Contrary to what is stated in the press, this evaluation report is not secret or confidential. For obvious reasons, the data contained in the report have been anonymized. At the time, it was agreed with the College of Attorneys General that this report would be disseminated through the secretariat of the College and the main coordinator of the network of expertise on economic and financial crime. The reason for this contextualization is also to be found in the fact that the opinions and experiences of judges who have recently applied this instrument are repeated without such opinions necessarily being shared by others. The Public Prosecutor's Office, however, had the ambition to develop a uniform criminal policy on extended criminal transactions. Part of the figures and part of the elements of this report were published in the Panopticon magazine of March-April 2015, in an article written by the authors of this report. You can read here that during the period, a total of 337 transactions were concluded for a total amount of EUR 56.5 million. A further numerical analysis of all expanded criminal transactions concluded since the entry into force of a new registration directive has not yet been carried out by the statisticians of the College of Attorneys General. The reason for this is, in particular, that the Constitutional Court, in its judgment of 2 June 2016, ruled as law: "Article 216bis, § 2, of the Code of Criminal Investigation violates Articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution, combined with the right to a fair trial and the principle of the independence of the judge (...) in that it empowers the Public Prosecutor's Office to terminate the public action by means of a criminal transaction, after the initiation of the public action, without the existence of effective judicial control." With regard to Mr Gilkinet's question No. 15146 on the position of the Attorney-General in the Chodiev case, the Attorney-General points out to me: "With regard to the parliamentary question No. 15146 of Mr Gilkinet, I can tell you that the Office of the King's Prosecutor had requested the referral to the correctional court of the various defendants prosecuted in this case. For the rest, the question cannot be answered if the proceedings before the Chamber of Council take place in camera and are therefore covered by professional secrecy." With regard to the sub-question on the statute of limitations, the Brussels Attorney General observed: "The indictment chamber had to rule on the possible termination of the public action by payment of the sums of money provided for in the transaction, not on grounds of limitation." Implicitly, the Attorney General confirms that the statute of limitations was not acquired at this stage. Had that been the case, the indictment chamber would not have validated the criminal transaction. In the present case, the Brussels Attorney General indicated that the analysis of the possible statute of limitations was carried out by the Chamber of Counsel, which concluded that the last interruptive act of limitation was the summons of the King's Prosecutor dated 29 February 2008. I turn to Mr Gilkinet's question No 15147 on the legality of the criminal transaction of 17 June 2011. The Attorney General of Brussels tells me: "Article 216a, as amended by Article 84 of the Law of 14 April 2011 on various provisions, read in conjunction with Article 21ter of the Code of Criminal Investigation, i.e. exceeding the reasonable time limit, provided a sufficient legal basis to justify the use of the transaction procedure in this particular case as it stood in June 2011." I went on to quote: "The legal analysis was carried out by the Public Prosecutor's Office and was shared by the Indictments Chamber of the Brussels Court of Appeal, which found that the public action had been terminated. It is not for me to answer the other questions, since this judgment appears to be legally justified and, moreover, given in closed proceedings, it is covered by professional secrecy."
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic543x.u12	Mr Minister, I confirm that there is a matter for a committee of inquiry and we are moving towards it. With the power of an investigating judge, we will have to have access to procedural documents that we are not given access to in the course of this exchange. I'll take your answers in order. With regard to the transaction in Antwerp, I note with interest that there has been a written procedure, in accordance with the circular of the Prosecutors General and contrary to what happened in Brussels in the other case. I assume that an important piece to analyze will also be the circular that was sent to the Antwerp parquet and compare it with the Brussels circular. I also take note of the confirmation that this is the Societe Generale file. We will return to that if necessary. As far as the conduct of the investigation is concerned, I note in particular the initiation of a prosecution of the case and the fact that the Prosecutor of the King of Brussels has dealt with it personally. As far as the criminal transaction is concerned, you confirm that we cannot have access to its content, which highlights one of the major difficulties that we had identified as early as 2 March 2011 when, in the same room, an amendment was tabled to a bill containing various provisions incorporating the possibility of a criminal transaction. One of the difficulties of what the majority of the time did in haste is that there is no possibility of control, neither at the very moment by a third party, nor by the substantive judge, nor a posteriori since we, as legislator, are prevented from having access to these documents. As for the fact that the content of the criminal transaction was written by the defendant's lawyer, you say that there is no objective evidence to establish it. I would like objective elements which make it possible to establish the opposite: that the Attorney General, at the time, took his pen and allowed, as a representative of the Belgian State, to negotiate equally and equally and not to submit to the intentions of the defendants. I note from the previous question that you do not confirm this amount of EUR 23 million – which I believe is important – or the way it was calculated. As far as the famous exceptional circumstances are concerned, you explain that there was a pragmatic request from the Minister of Justice, but no legal basis. It is a question of hierarchy of norms. The law is more important than a circular. The Attorneys General, at the time, turned a request that was still quite explicit, according to what you told us last week, into a slightly more open position, speaking of this highly measured application. Nevertheless, there is a question that you do not answer about the Brussels transaction in the Chodiev file, unlike the Antwerp file. What were the exceptional circumstances justifying this transaction? We must content ourselves with your reading of the words of the Attorney General, who says: I have been properly informed, and to you to believe us and imagine the reasons for the exceptional circumstances. We are forced to do so on the basis of reading newspaper articles. We imagine a lot of things. It would be nice to prove the other way around. Or, then, imagination will become reality. As for this evaluation report, you say that it is not secret and non-confidential. I can confirm that it is very difficult to obtain. We can use euphemisms to finish, but I think that your responsibility as Minister of Justice, after the recurring questions on this subject and the last I have just asked, is to spontaneously give parliamentarians access to this type of important document. However, as you are telling me that this report is not secret or confidential, I will check by asking, since you do not do so yourself, the Attorney General to provide it to me. I think this should be the basis for the rewriting of the amicable criminal transaction law. We really have to draw all the conclusions from what the legislator at the time did very badly, against what my group was defending. As for the position of the Attorney General and the appeal that was brought, you therefore confirm to me that the statute of limitations was not acquired at this stage of the case. However, when I ask you about the legality of the transaction, you are suddenly using, in the proceedings, the notion of exceeding the reasonable time limit which would justify the legality of the act of 30 June.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic543x.u13	According to the D.A.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic543x.u14	"According to the prosecutor," I thank you for that clarification. It can only be seen that this is a very advanced form of creativity. You are a distinguished lawyer, Minister of Justice. If, in order not to enforce the law, the reasonable delay is exceeded, I have the impression that this can be done in many cases, to judge in an inappropriate manner and not in accordance with the law. Exceeding the reasonable time would be somewhat the special powers of justice. This explanation is particularly tenuous. When we see the importance of the file, say a posteriori that this is the justification, I find it a little short. I'm not telling you, I'm telling the Attorney General, because those are his words. I note that the board accepted this explanation, this legal argument, this pretext, this trick, to consider it to be legally motivated. I would like to reiterate my most important questions on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic543x.u15	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, thank you for having answered my question clearly. I will allow myself two reflections on what you have just explained in response to the many questions that have been asked to you by my colleague Gilkinet. I appreciate your caution in this case when you read the answers that are given to you. They are subject to uncertainty, but also to a range of other questions. I am well aware of the answer that has been given to you, but it is well known, with regard to the use of narcotics, is it not a circular issued by the Attorney General authorizing the possession of a small quantity of cannabis and its use for personal use when it is still and still prohibited by law? A circular from the Attorney-General's Office could therefore have solved the problem. It is not the choice that has been made. I understand you weren't involved in this and you were just reading the prosecutor's statement. This means that we have huge uncertainties in this matter. It is clear that at some point, under the law, one can hide behind professional secrecy, but that means that if one wants to make all the clarity in this case, a parliamentary inquiry is all the more justified. Despite all the answers you have just given, there are still areas of uncertainty that need to be illuminated.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic543x.u16	Mr President, Minister, on 13 July, ECPAT Belgium, an association aimed at eradicating child prostitution, child pornography and trafficking in children for sexual purposes, presented its report on the impunity of perpetrators of sexual abuse committed against children abroad, particularly in the countries of South-East Asia. Some 40 per cent of the 12.3 million people subjected to forced labour worldwide are minors who are victims of sexual exploitation or more commonly referred to as "sexual tourism". For our country, its conclusions are instructive: only 13 cases have been reported for 2015, while it can be assumed that the scale of the phenomenon is greater and known to most travellers in these countries. Very few of these cases have been followed by sanctions. The "I say stop" campaign allows Belgians who are aware of proven or suspected abuses to alert the authorities, but the reports remain well below reality. However, the Act of 13 April 1995 containing provisions for the suppression of trafficking and trafficking in human beings makes it possible to prosecute any person guilty of sexual abuse committed against children abroad, provided that the person is on Belgian soil when the public action is initiated. Article 8 of the same law provides, however, for the prosecution of perpetrators of sexual abuse "even if the Belgian authority has not received any official complaint or notice from the foreign authority." Therefore, Minister, can you let me know how many reports of sexual abuse of minors abroad by Belgian nationals were reported in 2013, 2014 and 2015? How many of these reports have resulted in criminal convictions? What mechanisms have been or will be put in place to better collaborate with the police authorities of the countries mainly concerned by this totally repugnant "sex tourism" and to have a database of these facts and, above all, of their perpetrators? What is the position of the College of Attorneys General on the application of the 1995 Act? What instructions are given to Belgian diplomatic posts in these countries in order to better collaborate in the identification of Belgians guilty of such abuses? What would be the cooperation of the Belgian police authorities with Interpol in this area? Mr Minister, I know that some of these questions may concern your colleague the Minister of the Interior, but perhaps you have had an exchange of information to answer them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic543x.u17	Mr Maingain, I share your concern about the fight against sexual exploitation and sexual abuse of minors in Belgium and abroad. With regard to your question about the number of reports, I would like first of all to point out that the ECPAT is not a public organization under the jurisdiction of Justice, but rather a non-governmental organization. However, we support it through the Justice FPS because of its important and central objective – to combat child prostitution and child pornography around the world – and because of the solid foundation on which it works. In this regard, I also refer to the comprehensive security framework note in which the protection of children against sexual abuse had already been defined as one of the fundamental themes of policy in the cluster of offences constituting an attack on the physical and psychological integrity of persons. In this issue, ECPAT is not alone as a non-governmental organization either. In this regard, I refer to the recent approval of Child Focus by Royal Decree of 15 November 2016 (Moniteur belge du 18 novembre 2016) as an organisation responsible for managing the citizen contact point to which websites containing child pornography can be reported. With regard to the number of reports to ECPAT, I have learned that since the introduction of the new way of reporting in April 2015, ECPAT itself had received 12 reports. These reports are systematically transmitted to the police services. The College of Attorneys General has informed me that it does not have the requested figures. I am therefore unable to tell you how many of these reports have actually led to a judicial investigation. In addition, the report and the judicial investigation are not necessarily contained in a one-for-one report. Exchange of information with local authorities is essential to enable the Belgian judicial authorities to prosecute the perpetrators. I am a strong supporter of an extension of the European Criminal Record Information System (ECRIS) which gives any Member State of the European Union access to criminal records from other Member States. Judges are thus able to verify whether an accused has already incurred convictions in other Member States. The proposed extension of the system is aimed at third-country citizens who are not citizens of the European Union and who have committed an offence on the territory of the European Union. As regards the instructions given to Belgian diplomatic posts in these countries in order to better collaborate in the identification of the perpetrators of such abuses, the Minister for Foreign Affairs should be questioned. As far as the cooperation of the Belgian police authorities with Interpol is concerned, it is appropriate, as you feared, to question the Minister of the Interior. With regard specifically to alerts to citizen contact points of child pornography websites or websites on which sexual abuse is found, I can tell you, for example, that active cooperation with Interpol has been established through the international network of INHOPE citizen contact points and NGOs for the suppression of images. The Belgian police are informed of reports via this network.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic543x.u18	I thank the minister for his detailed response as usual. I realize that statistical instruments are often lacking to evaluate certain criminal policies. It's a broad topic and I know it's one of your department's concerns. I commend the quality of the work of these NGOs, which ultimately provide important assistance to the judicial authorities. A number of methodologies may need to be further developed in order to better understand the extent of this phenomenon of crime of particular concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic543x.u19	Mr President, Minister, last September, the firefighters of Neufchâteau issued a negative report concerning the condition of the building of the court of first instance in Neufchâteau. As for the condition of the building in Marche-en-Famenne, the cameras are out of use, which raises serious questions in terms of the security of the building but also of the litigants and the judicial staff. Computerization is far from being carried out in these local courts. As for the staff, the deficit is so problematic that it implies that the staff normally assigned to the reception must supplement the tasks which are not carried out by the registry staff. This staff shortage has a direct impact on the hearing schedule and therefore on the backlog in the province's three locations. In Arlon, Marche and Neufchâteau, both correctional and civilian hearings had to be significantly reduced. This situation is problematic not only in that it undermines the mission of justice, but also in that it totally contrasts with the objectives of your government agreement: processing requests within a reasonable time, priority pursuit of the recruitment of magistrates, complete computerization of the justice system, renovation of the places of justice, etc. Can the Minister let me know when the vacancies soon to be filled in the judicial district of Luxembourg will be published? When will the Masterplan on the renovation of the places of justice be adopted and communicated to Parliament? What will it provide for for the judicial district of Luxembourg? What budgetary means are available to achieve it and within what time frame? The government agreement states that this Masterplan "will be carried out within the limits of available budgetary resources and in accordance with the general investment policy of the government", a very usual formula for any government which wants to protect itself from any strong budgetary requirement but which does not allow to know what will really be the investment policy especially for these Luxembourg courts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic543x.u20	Mr President, Mr Maingain, currently 48.8 of the 53 posts in the Registry of the Court of First Instance of Luxembourg are filled. Following the publication of a clerk's job on July 4, 2016, a candidate was selected. His appointment is expected by the end of the month. The publication of posts to be filled shall be based on the operational margins available and in consultation with the judicial authorities. These margins are reviewed quarterly on the basis of assessments made by the departments of the Civil Service and the Budget. These evaluations are then amended by the administration of justice and validated by the administrative and budgetary supervisory authorities. I have already referred earlier in this committee to the Masterplan on judicial buildings which is being drawn up. As this work has not yet been completed, so far I can only state it again and therefore also for Luxembourg. It is preferable to conduct this difficult exercise in depth, rather than in haste, with a result of lower quality. Once this plan is ready, each relevant actor will be informed in detail. A budget estimate can only be made when the financial year is completed. All of this will be the subject of consultation within the government. I hope to be able to submit the plan in the spring of 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic543x.u21	Minister, as far as the Masterplan component is concerned, I expected this answer to wait. I will also question your colleague from the Régie des Bâtiments. We are sometimes also managers, at the local level, of heritage. I cannot understand how the Régie des Bâtiments is no better organized to deal with special and urgent situations that do not necessarily require large investments but which require more regular follow-up to prevent deterioration such that at that time the cost becomes prohibitive. Of course, the heritage of the State is more important than the heritage of some communes, although some communes, such as large cities, have imposing heritages. But if we were to deal with this in this way, sometimes we would be more directly questioned by the citizens. The remoteness may mean that the Régie des Bâtiments feels less responsible for carrying out this urgent repair work, but it is difficult to accept.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic543x.u22	Mr President, Minister, I have asked you about this before. You know that it is nice to have a proposal in this Chamber once in a while. It's not always obvious. The execution sometimes ends up with someone else and here it is with you. We are pleased because we know that it is in good hands. However, there are questions about the National Register for Legal Experts, in particular about the independence of the judicial experts. We have provided for this registration in order to guarantee quality, but at the same time to have an insight into who these experts are, in what cases they are active and present and in how they act deontologically. The problem of conflict of interest is very important for many people. On the one hand, the rapid entry into force of that register may offer a solution, on the other hand, reference has also been made to a possible deontological code. Minister, you have repeated several times over the past year that you intend to speed up the entry into force of that law by 1 December. This date is approaching now. What is the situation at the moment? In what way will this register be further implemented? In what way is the deontological issue taken on board?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic543x.u23	Mr President, Minister, I will not repeat the introduction entirely. In principle, the National Register for Legal Experts and Interpreters would enter into force on 1 December 2016. In the meantime, I have been contacted by a number of experts who are concerned. They believe they have understood that it is deontologically forbidden to act and advise a party to proceedings once a judicial investigation has been initiated. They are convinced that this deontological code would limit the necessary contradiction. They argue that when a judicial expert is appointed, he may be contradicted by another expert. Today, it often happens that after the start of the judicial procedure, or even after the final report has been submitted, another legal expert is sought as a party expert to defend the interests of a party on a technical level. Of course, this party expert is not always neutral because he acts on behalf of one party. But it also happens that the findings of the first appointed expert do not go far. The new deontological code would then make it difficult or even impossible to appoint a legal expert. I come to my questions. Firstly, as Mrs Becq said, where is the development of the deontological code? Secondly, is it true that it will no longer be possible for a party to appoint an expert itself after the start of the legal proceedings? What is the meaning of that? What do you think will be the impact of this impossibility?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic543x.u24	Ms Becq, Ms Van Vaerenbergh, the law of 10 April will enter into force on 1 December 2016. It organises a national register, which is primarily a database of available legal experts and sworn translators, interpreters and translators. On the basis of the transitional provisions, an inventory of all legal experts and sworn translators, interpreters and translators currently working for the judicial authorities will be drawn up. In a first stage, all legal experts and sworn translators, interpreters and translators working in the criminal pillar are personally registered and invited to submit their electronic application for registration. Subsequently, the legal experts and the sworn translators, interpreters and translators working in civil proceedings will be registered. This letter is accompanied by all the information necessary to ensure that the application for registration is made as smoothly as possible by the legal experts and sworn translators, interpreters and translators. From the end of this week they will be able to register. On Friday, the e-Deposit application will be opened as far as the national register is concerned. This is the online module that allows candidate legal experts or legal experts and sworn translators, interpreters and translators to create their profiles and submit their applications to be entered in the National Register for Legal Experts or the National Register for Affirmative Translators, Interpreters and Translators Interpreters respectively. From the beginning of 2017, users will be able to access the register. In addition, there is a legislative initiative to improve the functioning and verification of professional qualifications. Once the legislative amendment has been adopted, the implementing acts will follow and the inclusions in the final register will gradually be launched. To this end, the law provides for a transitional period of five years. The Royal Decree laying down the rules on the deontology of legal experts, appointed pursuant to the Law of 10 April 2014 amending the various provisions for the establishment of a National Register of Legal Experts and establishing a National Register for sworn translators, interpreters and translators will shortly be submitted for advice to the Treasury Inspectorate. It is not right that a party should no longer be able to appoint its own legal expert. A party to proceedings may still appoint an expert in civil matters. The deontological code aims to put an end to the practice that the legal expert is consulted by a party, after a report has already been prepared by a fellow legal expert on behalf of the court. Following contacts with the field of work, both magistrates and experts, the text of Article 10 of the draft deontological code has been amended several times. The expert may act without difficulty in the neutral function, such as arbitrator, mediator or friendly expert, on behalf of both parties. He may also act as technical counsel of a Party before the initiation of the procedure. If he was consulted before the start of the procedure, he may continue to act during the procedure. What is no longer possible is that it should be consulted only after the start of the procedure in order to draw up a unilateral counter-report. As the honourable Member rightly points out, there is concern among some groups of experts acting as traffic experts or anatomical pathologists in criminal matters. They will be registered in the register and all act as legal experts, but those same experts also act as technical advisers of a party before the court, because there are only legal experts in this matter. As a result, there would no longer be any experts who, outside the register, would guarantee the contradiction. It is therefore foreseen that the provision does not apply in criminal matters where no experts are available outside the register. This also respects the rights of the defence. The deontological code therefore determines the following. The expert shall in principle be prohibited from acting as technical advisor to one of the parties in a judicial expert investigation in civil matters. He will only accept extrajudicial assignments in the case of a unilateral appointment prior to a judicial expert's examination, mediation, arbitration or a comparative expert's inquiry. If an expert has been consulted by a party for the appointment of a judicial expert, he may continue this task as an adviser, but he cannot, of course, act as a judicial expert in this case. In criminal matters, a judicial expert may exceptionally act simultaneously, as a technical adviser in matters where only a judicial expert is available.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic543x.u25	Minister, I am grateful to you for the way in which you take this dossier to heart. I'm not saying that formally. That's really serious. This was a serious question from the translators and experts. They are pleased that this is being done. I understand there's gonna be a legislative change, too. I do not know the timing of this, but I hope you will continue to do so as hard as the rest of this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic543x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic543x.u27	Minister, the mandate of the current director of COIV expired on 10 October. On a previous parliamentary question from me in October, you indicated that you would like to proceed with a new appointment as soon as possible, in all objectivity, on the basis of the applications submitted and the advice of the College of Attorney General. How many applications were submitted? What is the current state of affairs regarding the appointment of a new director? If no new director has yet been appointed, when will this be the case?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic543x.u28	Ms De Wit, the position of director of COIV was published in the Belgian Official Journal on 22 September 2016. Four candidates came forward. On 11 October 2016, the services of the Directorate-General for Judicial Order requested advice from the College of Attorneys General. On 4 November, the College of Attorneys General forwarded the opinion on each candidate to the services of the Directorate-General for Judicial Order. Each of the candidates concerned was immediately informed of the opinion on their respective candidatures. Candidates were given the opportunity to respond to the opinion. The opinion and the reaction to it have been further examined by the services of the Directorate-General for Justice. A reasoned decision shall be prepared. It will be communicated to the candidates as a matter of priority and first. The decision will start on the day of publication in the Belgian Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic543x.u29	It's almost as exciting as it is for my kids waiting for Santa Claus. I'm figuratively in happiness.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic543x.u30	You weren't a candidate?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic543x.u31	No, I wasn't a candidate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic543x.u32	Mr President, Minister, we have already asked a lot of questions about CAPS, the central reporting points for drug addicts in the Flemish prisons, which have been around since 2011. Drug aid workers go to prison about once a week to talk to drug addicts. They assist them in the provision of the assistance and provide a reception or treatment. A certificate from the CAP is very important to qualify for conditional release (VI). I believe that everyone is convinced of the need for the CAP, knowing that about half of the prisoners are addicted. Between 2011 and 2015, the CAP received no less than 6 243 applications. However, the contract with the FPS Justice expired in February 2016. A finance inspector gave a negative opinion which prevented the contract from being renewed, even though you indicated that you wanted to extend it. The CAP paid its employees in the first few months, but the reserve ran out in April. On May 1st the CAP had to stop. I've questioned you on several occasions about this. Indeed, a professional file had been submitted by the Directorate-General EPI against the decision of the Finance Inspector. You didn't know the odds of success. We were then informed that an appeal had been given a negative reply on a question of competence. After all, the state reform also brings Flanders into the whole of this story. Apparently, there were a number of other concerns regarding public procurement and budgetary concerns. You mentioned a small opening for a temporary extension on the basis of a monopoly position of the current service providers. A new file was submitted for the temporary extension. A new follow-up question was asked and you said that you would submit the new file for the temporary extension shortly. You were also unable to assess the chances of success, given all the elements involved in the exercise of powers and in view of the current contracts which had reached the maximum duration. Moreover, rebooting would not be obvious at all. We know that Flanders has provided a budget in the 2017 budget to take over the CAP operation. You also indicated that for a similar operation in Brussels and Wallonia, no solution seemed to be in the pipeline in October, but that this would soon be discussed further. In the meantime, we have been on for a long time since you submitted the procurement department file of the DG EPI, so I would like to ask you the following follow-up questions. Firstly, is there a temporary extension of the CAP operation in the Flemish prisons? How was the case file of the Procurement Service of DG EPI assessed? Secondly, if a temporary extension of the CAP operation is not possible, will you provide for other similar initiatives, pending the take-over of the operation by Flanders? Thirdly, is there any solution in the meantime for Brussels and Wallonia? What's the tone of the conversations? Minister, I know Flanders will take action, but the budget is for 2017 and we are not ready yet. I believe that we should not allow this to stop for too long and that a transitional period is really needed. I hope you can tell me right away that it can indeed be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic543x.u33	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, first of all I would like to refer to the reply I gave last week to Mrs Özen's questions concerning the cessation of funding for the Central Notification Point in Walloon and Brussels prisons. In conclusion, I would like to inform you that the researchers of the scientific study on the functioning of the CAP have presented their recommendations on Wednesday 9 November and that discussions are scheduled to take place in the near future by the Community. These will be launched before the end of the year. The aim is to ensure that inmates can return to prisons directly in the short term with a contact point for assistance, in order to prepare a tailor-made care path for an addiction or mental health problem in the context of their conditional release. The way in which this should be done should primarily be determined by the Communities, taking into account their powers in the field of drug aid and therapeutic addiction care in general. However, as far as Justice is concerned, it is necessary to determine the facilitating role of psychosocial services in prisons and the prison director with regard to the practical organisation of these notification points, for example for movements in prisons, for referral to the notification points, for providing information to the detainees, for drawing up a detention plan and for preparing a dossier for provisional release. However, I would like to remind you that the CAPs themselves do not provide drug aid within muros but link the aid to extra muros. It is therefore important that the model for inmates be optimally adapted to the supply and operation outside the prison. However, in some prisons there are projects offering therapeutic guidance to inmates with an addiction problem, but this is not self-evident in the context of detention itself. I refer to the therapeutic programme of the B-Leave project in Ruiselede prison, as well as the drug-free departments in the Bruges and Hasselt prisons. There are also discussions with Mr van Volksgezondheid, Jo Vandeurzen, on a number of pilot projects concerning the screening of prisoners with an addiction problem. It may be desirable to look at these projects in conjunction with the future functioning of the CAP. In addition, there are also medical substitution treatment programmes in most departments. It is true, after all, that we have submitted a new dossier to the Finance Inspector for a temporary transitional arrangement. We have not yet received an answer to this question, for which the Flemish prisons are gradually becoming without object, given the commitments that colleague Jo Vandeurzen wants to take on from 1 January 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic543x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It's too bad it has to be that way. Eventually, a number of people with their problems in prison are the victims. You know as well as I do that there are, unfortunately, a lot of them. I can only hope that it can be started quickly within Flanders, so that those people will not be without help for too long. I think it's a poignant situation. It shows once again how difficult fragmented state reforms are, with particles being transferred and others not. Communication is very important then. I have no doubt that it is right between Mr Vandeurzen and you, but if we have to work together, we do not always have the best policy. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic543x.u35	Questions Nos 15081 and 15089 by Mr Van Hecke have been converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Bonte's 15134 has been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Brotcorne's 15137 has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic543x.u36	Minister, the coalition agreement states that more work must be done on the right of rapid reaction. In 2013, high-speed courts were set up in each province, including to punish shoplifting quickly. They have also often used the fast right for hooligans, for example in Champions League matches. Those are often foreigners, who are quickly gone. The general roll-out of the fast law came after it had been successfully applied to shoplifting in Antwerp for some time. At the end of 2014, it was found that speedy law in certain judicial districts was limited and not even applied in others. The chairman of the Neutral Syndicate for Self-employed called on you to urge the arrondissements to use rapid justice more often as a powerful signal. The economic damage in shoplifting can be considerable for traders. In any case, a sense of impunity must be avoided. The coalition agreement provides for further work to be carried out in order to establish specific chambers in each district that allow a rapid judicial procedure for simple crimes. How often has the right to shoplifting been applied in recent years? Can you give a breakdown per year and per judicial arrondissement? How often has the rapid duty been generally applied in recent years? What other crimes, in addition to shoplifting, are regularly dealt with through quick-track law? How do you assess the trend in the figures? If there are judicial arrondissements where rapid law is rarely or never applied, what action are you taking to extend it there? Can you confirm that the rapid right to shoplifting in Antwerp has been discontinued due to a lack of capacity in the Public Prosecutor's Office and its seat, despite the success there? If so, what reduced capacity are we talking about? What action are you taking to re-apply the law as soon as possible, in accordance with the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic543x.u37	Mrs De Wit, it is difficult to give figures in response to an oral question, but I can give you a few in relation to the application of the Quick Law in 2015 in the context of your pending written question No 1235. It's just about numbers for the D.A.'s office. The figures for the courts and courts are not available. For the period 1 January to 31 December 2015, a total of 2 059 applications were made of the Quick Law, either in the case of subpoenas via the police in the application of Article 645 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (1 167 times) or in the case of summoning by report pursuant to Article 216quater of the Code of Criminal Procedure (892 times). 55.95 % were theft files. The shoplifters are not specifically extracted in the figures, but are estimated to account for about 20% of the total number of quick-track files. At the same time, it should be noted in the figures that the speed limit in the parquets of the Antwerp resort was applied only 117 times in 2015. In the period between 2010 and 2014, why I informed you earlier, following your question No. 12386, it was found that Antwerp still accounts for 15% of the number of files of fast-track law. This may be explained by the frequent use of other methods of handling in the Antwerp resort, such as the immediate friendly settlement, which implies a faster sanction. The policy with regard to common minor crime and crimes used by manyfenders is currently being further developed by the Public Prosecutor General of Antwerp, but there are still needs in the field of computerisation. This is therefore included as part of the further roll-out of the MACH project to the correctional court. It is important that a proper follow-up of repeaters of often less serious crimes can be supported with the necessary computer tools. Further computerisation of justice is one of my main policy priorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-23-54-commissie-ic543x.u38	Minister, I think you have only partially answered my question. Rapid justice can be an important instrument, because it counteracts impunity. It is also important that there is a ruling. I hope it can be applied in several cases and not just for thefts. I gave the example of hooligans, but I can think of a few more. That is why we do not even need to talk about A and B citizens. It is simply about simple, clear cases occurring more quickly with the same procedural measures. I really hope that this will be done again, together with computerisation, and that the districts will be given the necessary capacity. The signals I received from, for example, Antwerp, where the pilot project was launched, which later proved to be successful, point to the fact that even there people are getting their hands on it. They still want to, but they no longer have the people or the means to apply the law of rapidity. I regret that, because I believe that speedy access to shoplifting has already proved its worth. It is also in the coalition agreement. It would therefore be nice if a positive restart were to be taken.
