ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u1	Madam President, this is a short question to start quietly. Minister, before the summer recess in June, I asked you a question about the Haacht-Brussels rail link, in particular about the need to have a direct connection with Brussels at peak times a few times a day, as was the case in the past. You replied that the number of ticket holders and customers travelling with notes between Haacht and Brussels is fairly stable and that there will therefore be no structural changes. Mr Minister, I'm sorry, I don't know what you mean by fairly stable, but recent figures on passenger numbers published by SNCB show that the biggest drop was recorded correctly in Haacht, where the number of passengers falls from 943 per weekday in 2013 to 674 in 2015. In my humble opinion, this is anything but stable as the number is falling by almost a third. I certainly have the impression that, with the abolition of this direct link, SNCB has driven people back to the car. I base myself on the figures for this, but above all on what I hear. People just don't find it easy to take the train between Haacht and Brussels anymore. I have a very simple question. Do you insist that the former direct link between Haacht and Brussels remains unnecessary or will you still evaluate the connection on the basis of these figures?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the passenger numbers published by SNCB following the annual passenger count in October must always be seen as a snapshot of intensive censuses of the number of passengers leaving each station during a working week and two weekends. Such censuses can always be influenced by temporary circumstances such as infrastructure work, important events, events or even weather conditions. Indeed, the October 2015 figures show a significant decrease in the number of departing passengers in Haacht. The sales figures, which reflect the average daily train consumption throughout the year between Haacht and the Brussels zone, indicate something else. I have here a table of the numbers. SNCB informs me that it confirms its previous findings, namely that the number of passengers in Haacht, following the introduction of the new transport plan 2015, which lost the direct P-connection, has only been very limited. SNCB adds that it continuously follows the occupation of its trains and the use of the stations. Cases of sharp increases or decreases are always investigated. Where necessary, additional studies shall be carried out to respond to the changes. SNCB informs me that it will follow closely the evolution of passenger numbers in Haacht as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u3	Mr Minister, I am looking at the tables you have given me here. However, I should like to point out that there are some comparisons between apples and lemons. After all, I was talking about 2013 and 2015, when a comparison is being made between 2014 and 2015, when I think the new organisation was already partially in operation. I repeat, I am not just basing myself on the figures. I also base myself on a number of specific cases, which I know very well that people are no longer taking the train, because that is no longer convenient. I therefore continue to draw attention to the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u4	The following questions are on the agenda: 13116 and No. 13117 by Mrs Thoron, but she is absent. Mrs Cassart-Mailleux comes later, for her question No. 13120.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u5	Minister, several inhabitants of Leopoldsburg tell me that they are suffering from flooding due to a poorly maintained canal, the drainage channel between the railway line 15 and the Antwerp Steenweg. That canal would be situated in an area owned by SNCB and would have been maintained in the past by Infrabel. The municipality of Leopoldsburg would have already asked Infrabel to clear that canal, but apparently the company does not regard it as a priority. That's why it's up to the neighborhood residents now to maintain the canal themselves. However, not everyone does so, which makes the efforts of some hardly any results. Is it true that the property in question is owned by Infrabel? Is it true that the moat was maintained in the past by Infrabel? If so, how regularly did the maintenance take place? Did Infrabel perform the maintenance work itself or were they outsourced to third parties? Do you think Infrabel is obliged to maintain the moat? Is it true that Infrabel no longer maintains the moat today? What's the reason for that? Were consultations organized between the municipality and Infrabel? If so, what was the result? Finally, can residents expect a solution to their problems in the short term? What can a solution consist of?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u6	(...) Infrabel maintained the canal together in the past and in consultation with the municipality of Leopoldsburg. She was manually cleared every two to three years. Infrabel maintains his assets as a good family father and has not stopped maintaining the moat. Indeed, consultations have taken place between Infrabel and the municipality of Leopoldsburg. The result is that Infrabel will inform the neighborhood residents that unnatural drainage in the ditch is not allowed and that it will ask the residents to remove it. In addition to informing the residents, Infrabel remains at the disposal of the local authorities to establish a constructive cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u7	Minister, if I understand you correctly, the canal is still maintained today by Infrabel, in consultation with local residents, who must also take initiatives in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u8	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u9	Effective consultations have taken place between Infrabel and the municipality in connection with that maintenance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u10	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u11	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u12	The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: 13146 by Mr Pivin, but he is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u13	Minister, a study carried out by the consultancy firm Roland Berger shows that better use of digitalisation in the rail sector can also help to reduce the cost of maintenance on trains to 20%. Digital data can quickly and precisely show which parts of the rail or rolling stock are in need of maintenance. Today maintenance is often carried out on the basis of standard times or established rules. Therefore, maintenance is not always carried out when it is necessary. Sometimes it is carried out too early, when it is not necessary or not yet needed, but sometimes too late, and then repairs have to be done, which in both cases leads to unnecessary costs. I have the following questions. Are the rail companies aware of that investigation? What rules do they apply for the maintenance of rail infrastructure and rolling stock? Do you think it would be a good idea to use digital data to better plan the maintenance of rail and train sets? If so, are there any concrete plans for this? If not, what obstacles are there today?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, both SNCB and Infrabel inform me of the research carried out by the consultancy firm Roland Berger. In addition, SNCB confirms to maintain contacts in this area with, for example, Roland Berger's experts. The maintenance of the infrastructure at Infrabel has been controlled for some time from a permanent follow-up of the installations. The computerization of data management and the automatic collection of data are the permanent subject of extensive projects using the latest technology. As an example, Infrabel gives the automatic measurement of the geometry of the switches from a moving train. Another example relates to the renewal of the tracks. Such renewal shall only take place after the evolution of wear and tear has been mapped by automatic monitoring of specific parameters relevant to the degree of wear and tear. As regards SNCB's rolling stock, a distinction is made between the old and the new equipment. In the case of old equipment, preventive maintenance is mainly based on the distance travelled and/or the time between different intervals. Telemetry has been used for the new equipment, e.g. Desiro. The trains are monitored remotely via sensors. This technology has the following advantages for maintenance. First, the causes of defects can be detected more quickly and the recovery time is shorter. Secondly, the focus can be placed more easily on preventive maintenance instead of curative maintenance. Both in Infrabel and SNCB, the introduction of digital applications is accompanied by an adjustment of the business processes, which in itself entails a reduction in costs in the longer term.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u15	Minister, it is clear to me that both companies are already in the process of using digital data to reduce maintenance costs to a certain extent. You give a number of concrete examples. We are on the right track, but you also indicate that SNCB is still in contact with the research office. So I understand that she has the ambition to continue to evolve in that sense. That is a good thing, because in times of scarce resources all the bits can help.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, we now come to item 9 of our agenda. I would immediately ask Mr Raskin to replace me as chairman, because one of the questions that has been put together is mine. The Conference of Presidents today decided to add Mr Cheron's interplay on the GEN in and around Brussels to this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, as Mrs De Coninck has explained, we now come to the combined questions on rail investment, to which the Conference of Presidents today, if I understand correctly, has also added Mr Cheron's interplay. Do you agree that we should deal with the questions as they stand and start with Mr Geerts' question?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u18	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, do we give priority to interplay?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u20	Thank you, Mr. Geerts. Mr President, Minister, in July you announced a future loan of EUR 1 billion to finance, among other things, the RER around Brussels. From this moment on, it must be noted that, in my view, there is a blurring of the assembly and the amounts which should make it possible to finalise the RER, or even other investments. On July 26, we read your comments in the press. You were talking about a 1 billion manna, according to a 60/40 North/South distribution key, which will serve, I quote, "essentially to complete the work on the ER. It's good for Wallonia as it is for Flanders. Remember that there are 50 stations on one side and 80 on the other." You were also talking about an investment to make a qualitative leap in the offer made to users, especially commuters. And you concluded, that was with the RTBF: "That's the purpose of the operation." A few days later, I was able to see that the words had already changed a little, that the amounts had also changed. "The setting up of the RER financing was already almost complete before the decision of this virtuous investment billion, you said to the RTBF, but in the envelope, a sum of 230 million will be devoted to the finalisation of the RER. The 60/40 allocation rule must be respected, but this in no way compromises the achievement of the RSP." Of the bulk of one billion in the first statement, we had gone there to 230 million. I thought it was a bit strange, but the whole thing got complicated, it seems to me, during your return interview in La Libre Belgique. You have done in pluralism: Le Soir, la RTBF, La Libre... and I have taken only the French-speaking media. I feel impatience and I feel your concern for pluralism. RTBF, at that time, was still public, without private partners, since I've learned since... something I'm not going to come back to. And so, for the RER, you said, 800 million today. Given the planning deadlines, I'd say a billion. "It takes 280 million to finish line 161, and 250 million for line 124. There are 120 million in the RER fund for Wallonia, 50 million will come from the parking lot of Louvain-la-Neuve, and 200 million will come from the pre-financing of the Brussels Region. So there's a hundred million missing, which we're going to look for in the billion I've been talking about. In 2023, we can put a train every quarter of an hour on line 161 and every half hour on the 124", end of quote. So we can see that the 230 million that replaced the billion became 100 million in less than a month. I know the summer was very hot, but the billion seems to have melted pretty well. Minister, in the face of these elements, which you will agree with, ask many questions and undoubtedly deserve answers, can you give us precisely the assembly that will ultimately be retained? What amount or part of the one billion loan will actually be spent on the RER around Brussels? If 530 million are needed to finalize the RER of lines 124 and 161, what is the total of 800 million to one billion euros to which you referred in the article of La Libre? I asked another oral question on the following subject, but I am developing it now. With respect to the $50 million that will come from Louvain-la-Neuve's car park, what do you mean by the term "the future of Louvain-la-Neuve's car park"? This is the first time a parking lot has produced money, in any case for the public. It's more for the private in that corner. Are the stakeholders on the file – city, UCL, Infrabel – informed of these elements? How, Minister, articulate compliance with the 60/40 key with this loan in the financing of the RSP? Finally, because this is the most important aspect, what is the view of the European Commission? What is the mechanism? In other words, how do we get what you initially pointed out, namely the Commission's final approval of the proposed assembly? The signs seemed positive, we said, but do not presage in any way the final decision. Has a formal or informal procedure been put in place? If so, what is it? How do we get the borrowing capacity? What will the vehicle be, if I may say so? Will it be the SNCB, whose structure of revenue and expenditure is known, which largely depends on public allocations? Or will it be Infrabel, whose distribution between revenue and expenditure differs from that of SNCB? At the federal level, the issue of ruling with the European Commission is a little more complicated. Finally, what are the possible deadlines a priori, although we know that they may not be respected? Has the process been properly undertaken? If so, what are they? Initially, this issue appeared to be the contribution of one billion as a premonition of Charles Michel's programme in terms of productive investment. That's to believe you inspired him. However, in a second stage, it has been clear that this amount initially intended to meet the needs of the RER around Brussels has dwindled dramatically during the summer, to the point that it is only a tiny part of the RER file. This, Minister, is a source, if not a source of concern, in any case of questions which I wanted to share with you through this inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u21	Minister, I will not go as far in detail as my colleague and his interplay. At the time I asked the question, the government decided to save EUR 3 billion on the one hand, and the government said in the summer recess, on the other hand, that the companies themselves could make additional debt of EUR 1 billion. I thought that was remarkable. I would like to congratulate the Minister, on the one hand, because he understood that the effort requested was actually unrealistic and would have an impact on the provision of services, both for SNCB and for Infrabel. On the other hand, when I took note of other answers from the Minister, here in Parliament or in the press, it turned out that debt stabilization of companies was a priority for you. You said that making additional debt was a mortgage on the future of those companies. That's why I don't really understand your two-pronged message. You are talking about an additional billion, to which Mr Cheron has already referred, and we would like to know how it is distributed, between parts of the country and between companies. After hearing the lists, it is mainly about investment in infrastructure, whether or not investments are removed by the savings that this government has imposed. Now you say, "Go ahead." Then I have a reflection on the European part. Although I have just looked at the SEC95 standard on whether or not to include investment in the budget, there is still uncertainty. Quid with the division? Is the 60/40 ratio between Flanders and Wallonia correct? What debts can one make effective? How does the division between companies take place? What exactly are the investments involved? Is it investment that has to yield a return in the long term? Do you recognise with the ruling that making an additional billion debts is unrealistic, that the government's effort, in particular three billion savings, is unrealistic? Do you have any more news on Europe's position?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u22	Minister, Mr Cheron and Mr Geerts have already outlined the dossier in detail. We welcome additional investment in infrastructure, which is much needed for our railways. This is independent of the savings that we see mostly on exploitation. We can do more with less and want to make savings, leaving the traveller out of the question. Of course, the EUR billion released for additional investment raises questions. We read in the press that the money will serve, among other things, to finish the GEN Brussels, to build higher platforms and to make the connection of the port of Antwerp. The investment must quickly stimulate socio-economic growth. Its results must be tangible in the short term and be beneficial to passengers. In advance, some French-speaking opposition parties questioned the 60/40 key. They used to be fierce defenders of this, but now they are asking questions. With the announcement of the additional EUR billion for rail investment, I have the following specific questions. What specific projects will this money be used for? Is it true that it is not just for the GEN Brussels but also for other projects? What projects are we talking about? Is the 60/40 key respected in the amount and applies to each year or throughout the legislative period? Is the budget sufficient to complete the GEN around Brussels?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u23	Mr Minister, at the end of July you announced what you call a 1 billion euro productive public investment in rail. This investment would therefore be in addition to what was foreseen or foreseeable in the traditional investment plan and would be used primarily for the completion of the RSP. It would be here, not to increase the endowments of the SNCB group, which you have greatly reduced, but to play on the group's debt. We are obviously on the same page about the need to invest in rail. That is why we had a large multi-annual investment plan, PPI, which you have completely removed because it is too ambitious. Instead, you would prefer to increase the company's deficit, which is a matter of concern to us. The CEO of lnfrabel, Luc Lallemand, has always been reluctant about the possibility of in debt to his group. The latter has always stressed the requirement that lnfrabel constantly ensure that its costs do not exceed its revenues in order to avoid a possible consolidation of its debt which should then be taken over by the State. This scenario is all the more worrying as the allocation of lnfrabel has been greatly reduced and infrastructure charges have been frozen. Again, this government prefers to place all responsibility on the shoulders of Infrabel and SNCB rather than to finance them properly. Minister, this imaginary gift of one billion euros is neither more nor less than an obligation on lnfrabel to be in debt. Given the clear position of the CEO of lnfrabel on debt, have you obtained the full cooperation of the company on this issue? With regard to the state of lnfrabel's finances, can you assure us that it can assume this debt without compromising the balance between costs and revenues? On the question of possible consolidation, it has not yet been clarified. Can you assure us that it is not on the agenda and that both the state and lnfrabel are immune to this potential risk? In the same context, you also stated that this billion would obviously follow the famous 60/40 rule. We would therefore have 600 million for the north and 400 million for the south of the country. In addition to the questions I have asked you about the reality of this investment, we are also asking ourselves whether this will prove to be sufficient as far as the ER is concerned. The estimates for the finalisation of the works of the Walloon RER show amounts ranging from 800 million to 1 billion euros. Even if we add the 200 million pre-financing proposed by the Walloon government, we are still unable to finance the finalisation of this RSP. This finalisation is also announced for 2025 at the earliest, even 2030, and in a light version. At this rate, even the Greek calends would become almost a more credible horizon. Therefore, Minister, with regard to this specific point in the ER, I have a question for you. It is your responsibility to find sufficient funding to complete this work that all Walloon users, but also Brussels, have been waiting for far too long. It is no longer acceptable to have to bear again the straitjacket of this 60/40 key, which is totally disjointed from the realities of the field. We know that the RER is now finished in Flanders. What, then, will these 600 million be used for the northern part of the country, if they are to be spent, for the most part, on the ER?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, the introduction of an additional EUR 1 billion in rail investment is now a strong option for the government. In order to do this, I hope that Infrabel and SNCB will constitute a virtuous debt due to competition, taking advantage of the unique opportunity to be able to borrow at historically low rates. The macro-economic analysis that I presented to the government on 23 July, which underlies this choice, is rather complex and difficult to find here. You'll have it in time. As a reminder, the OECD accounts for 1 to 2 per cent of GDP of the problems of saturation in our country. BECI has determined that the additional cost of saturation for the Brussels economy is of the order of 352 million euros per year, of the order of 200 million euros for Antwerp and of the order of 250 million for the whole country in addition. An elaborate mechanism determines the additional costs for enterprises, i.e. a decrease in revenues for the State. That is why it is called the virtuous circle. If we improve mobility, we improve the economic efficiency and thus the performance of companies and their activities. I am not going to detail the figures, but it is important to know that, according to low estimates, if we manage to reduce the length of the traffic jams on the roads by around 30%, this represents a minimum gain of EUR 45 million per year for the State. It should then be noted that the saturation of a network is not proportional, but that it meets a fairly simple rule. A taxiway can accommodate 3,000 vehicles per hour and per direction. If you add a vehicle, then it is immobility. Under 3,000, that's a normal density. For example, on Wednesday and Friday on Brussels, traffic jams were observed which were about 25% lower than on other days of the week. Several measures may reduce the length of traffic jams, but I am not going to go into detail, since it is a mobility policy that we are organising with my regional counterparts. This debt, which is intended to finance work which has a direct impact on the mobility offer and to increase the attractiveness of the train through, in particular, the end of the work of the RER, is virtuous in that it will very quickly produce positive socio-economic effects throughout the country. It is also virtuous, as it is not intended to compensate for operational losses or lack of efficiency given the measures that have just been taken in this area. You're impatient, but it can take time. Infrabel is currently studying the modalities of the technical-financial operation on the basis of the general approach which I have communicated to him and which I have opened to the press. It is therefore too early to mention specific and precise amounts within an overall envelope or the modalities for implementing the operation. Infrabel and SNCB are working on it. However, with regard to the amount of $50 million for the Louvain-la-Neuve relay car park, which I have mentioned, I can tell you that it corresponds to the unused part of the pre-financing operation relating to the construction of the car park by SNCB. Infrabel was well informed of this opportunity. The rules of the cooperation agreement of 11 October 2001 on the regional key will continue to be applied. The 60/40 key will therefore be respected. The European Commission is in favour of reviving investment in all Member States provided that the rules on government debt are respected. I am leaving the regulatory framework that exists to date. We'll see what happens for the next few days! In the present case, these are loans to be concluded by Infrabel and, in the alternative, by SNCB which operate outside the consolidation scope of the State. To comply with this rule, 51 per cent of variable income must cover the debt burden. The government remains committed to stabilising and reducing the historic debt of the railways. This does not exclude building up a positive debt that will quickly benefit the citizens and the economy of the country as a whole. As far as the figures are concerned, I refer to the presentations to be given next week by the CFOs of the two companies in relation to the debt. They will not fail to communicate their full analysis to the members of the commission. I want to clarify one thing about the scope of the debt: it must be shown that at least 51 per cent of the debt burden is covered by variable revenues.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u25	Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, we are impatient. For more than 20 years we have been waiting on this file! Also, you will understand that, as Woody Allen said, "Eternity is long, especially on the end"! Here we did not leave for eternity, but Mrs Grovonius used the expression "Greek calends" which, by nature, do not exist, since they are Roman. I confess I'm perplexed. On the one hand, I understand the will; on the other hand, between July and September, the time has stopped.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u26	There was a two-month vacation, Mr. Cheron!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u27	It has been very hot, I have feared that there has been a meltdown of the billion and I confess to you that I remain even more perplexed, because I agree with this observation: to tackle the traffic jams (you have described well on Wednesday and Friday which are known phenomena in relation to what it means and the immobility that it creates and generates, i.e. an unbearable collective cost) is of public utility. We know all the studies of the FEB, which speak of 8 billion a year, from BECI to Brussels which evokes very important sums. And you seem to grasp the deal, which I rejoice at, because this speech I did not hear in the past. On the record, we fully agree. As for the idea of productive investment, of course, we agree! In fact, we must carry it collectively. I even understood that the N-VA would join in. It is also a historic event in relation to SNCB's file, economies, economies, and economies. That was all we've heard since the beginning of the legislature. It probably remains to convince Angela as well as Schäuble – it will be a little more perilous. It is, in any case, a common fight. I'm glad. On the other hand, and this is a sword of Damocles - which was neither Greek nor Roman - the question is: who will be the wicked at the end of history, when Infrabel has produced his technical-budgetary studies and the file has been introduced? I hope we're not just going to honor the "villain Europe that said no". I hope we are going to set up a dossier, as you pointed out in a somewhat sibylline way, but I understand that you also expect a change from the European point of view in terms of productive investment. Maybe you've heard from Bratislava. I don't want to know; anyway, you won't say it. If there is good news on Europe's side, so much the better. But then, what will the vehicle be? You have remained a little vague – it is not in your habits – as to whether it would be SNCB or Infrabel. I thought I understood from the beginning that it would be Infrabel, but that's my intuition. I'm from Daerden School, when he was talking about consolidation scope, SEC standards, what's allowed and what's supported by variable credits (for example, the 51% you're talking about). We will therefore wait for these studies, hoping that the argument will be sufficiently solid. A political consensus has been reached. It is quite rare for everyone to agree that it is a good idea to encourage productive investments for various virtuous operations, not to make debt for debt, for functioning and usual, but for the purpose of making fundamental strategic choices in terms of rail mobility. So we're going to wait for the results. What else can we do? However, we remain puzzled about the importance of RER investment itself within this billion. I am struck that by reading your interviews, you who are usually so precise - we have praised your personality enough to ask you for an account today - I find that the share of the RER in this billion has melted like snow in the summer sun. At first, we felt it was almost the bulk of the billion. Now it's a tenth! Let me turn to my last question on the timetable. [[I have heard the argument on permits, on the difficulties of generating and having the completion of RER work under reasonable and respectable conditions.]] Couldn't we give the reasonable one a little boost? As far as urban planning is concerned, can the Regions not go a little faster than usual? I remember having accepted a decree in the Walloon Parliament to complete a quick-track project. Imagine the ideological transfer that it had asked me to do. As there was one kilometre of fast track left that was not finished, it caused huge traffic jams in the villages, while upstream and downstream, it was realized. In three days, the Walloon Parliament issued a decree to issue a permit by decree. Why not determine with the Regions what is the way to speed up in terms of permits? Just by doing this, you can easily win two years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u28	Minister, thank you for the various presentations you made on the ER, especially in Walloon Brabant. You have seen, however, that we remain a little on our hunger with regard to the dates announced. In fact, 2025 as the first point of appointment only to have some improvements but not at all yet the RER, this is not in connection with the objective announced in July: productive investments in the rail to meet the traffic jams. If there is no modal shift, the initial observation on the economic interest of resolving the issue of traffic congestion will not materialise. I'll finish it, Mr. President. I'm a little long but the subject deserves it. Mr Minister, I am sure that you know intellectually that we cannot talk about this issue without talking about car taxation. If we do not discuss the question of the mobility budget and the question of company cars, we pretend that we have not understood what is the real cause of the "bouchons" in Belgium. It's a real debate. I know your coalition partners have said no pasarán but they have changed their minds so much lately that I do not despair.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think we agree that congestion has an economic cost. It would amount to 2% of GDP, equivalent to EUR 8 billion. I said at the beginning of this legislature that I do not understand why this government saves three billion, although it is aware of this economic cost, regardless of the social and medical costs involved. It is good that you admit that this saving has probably been too drastic. You say that the loan burden is very low and that additional debts can be made. When I look at the debt ratings of different companies and the level of cover of income that can be created afterwards, I think that Infrabel is able to bear that debt itself. SNCB is not strong enough to do so today. I think that this needs to be clarified, otherwise I fear that this will become a blank.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You have clearly said that the 60/40 distribution key will be respected, as it should be. As far as the debts for the GEN fund are concerned, I have already asked questions about this in the past. A well has been left behind in previous legislatures, and I note that this government is trying to resolve it. I am also looking forward to the audit we asked the Court of Auditors on the GEN fund. Perhaps some interesting things will come to light.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u31	Minister, thank you for your answers. It can be said that you have stirred our curiosity and our impatience with your statements this summer. I hope that next week, when we receive the CEOs, the reflection will have advanced and we can have concrete elements. Now and according to your answers, you can say that you are able to maintain suspense. Let's hope we can get answers next week. We have the feeling that you're going behind the CEOs in your response, while that remains a political decision that will have to be made by you and the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u32	Next week, the CFOs are coming for the state of the debt. With regard to the billion in question, the services of SNCB and Infrabel, taking into account what they have been told, are working on all the technical components, the time frame for the implementation of the RER and other investment projects. Everything is in the current thinking within the framework of the investment plan, which includes, in particular, the RER component. Unless the CFOs have other information, they cannot explain the investment plan to you today as it will be finalized by the federal government. They can simply tell you that the debt is at such a level, such an average rate, such a consolidated rate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u33	This is not very reassuring because it would mean that this so-called additional billion is actually what will fund the new investment plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u34	No, I don't!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u35	Any more reactions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u36	Mr. President, when do we see the CFOs?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u37	Next Wednesday.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u38	What is a CFO?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u39	They're the financial leaders. These choices were made by the commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u40	Mr President, my question is the same as Mr Cheron's, which is to confirm that sitting. This is not on the provisional committee agenda. Is this meeting going on?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u41	According to the committee secretariat, yes. I understand there have been a few mistakes in the draft agenda. It's gonna be corrected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u42	Mr President, Minister, I have already asked Mrs Galant several times about the care of people with reduced mobility by SNCB, not only at its stations, but also to get on trains. It turns out that some stations offer specific assistance to PMRs, while others do not allow it at all. In addition, on the occasion of my question, I had been confirmed that 24 hours' assistance should be booked in advance, which I consider particularly long but conceivable, but that the SNCB was considering how to reduce this time limit, which was obviously good news. Minister, have any initiatives been initiated to improve the accessibility of stations and trains to PMRs? How are these initiatives prioritized? Are the most frequented stations the first ones to benefit from such arrangements? Are there stations and trains accessible to PMRs without specific assistance? Will the contact centre number for booking PMR assistance be free in the near future? Some trains have particularly high steps, even for people who are not with reduced mobility. How are trains that are not adapted to PMRs geographically distributed? Under what criteria?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, SNCB has committed itself, through its management contract, to improving the accessibility of stations for PMRs. When constructing or renovating railway stations and stop points, the accessibility of RMPs is always taken into account in order to ensure that the facilities meet at least the standards and obligations in force, regardless of the importance of the station in terms of use. A station is considered to be fully accessible when the station building and the docks are accessible from the public highway and when staff offer assistance in boarding and disembarking trains. As of 1 January 2016, 15 stations meet these criteria. A station building is said to be accessible when it has at least one access completely free of any obstacle linking the public road to the window hall, at least one access to the docks completely free from any obstacle, a sanitary room suitable for PMRs, guidance lines for blind people (podotactile pads) and parking spaces reserved for PMRs in parking spaces. The wharfs are considered accessible when three conditions are met. The docks are high. As a reminder, SNCB opted for the standardization of dock edges at 76 centimetres. Second, transfer between docks is possible via a bridge or sub-lane equipped with ramps or elevators. Third, the wharfs are equipped with podotactile pathways. In the 2008-2012 management contracts, quantified targets had been set by the former SNCB Holding, then in charge of the accessibility of the station halls and by Infrabel, responsible for the accessibility of the docks. As part of the new railway structure, Infrabel's objectives were taken over by SNCB with the exception of the upgrading of the wharf edges. To date, these objectives have not been reviewed. These are being discussed under the future management contracts of SNCB and Infrabel. Compared to rolling stock in general, the new rolling stock will comply with EU Regulation 1300/2014 of 18 November 2014 on technical specifications for interoperability relating to the accessibility of the European Union rail system for persons with disabilities and persons with reduced mobility. The measures envisaged are not limited to improving the way in which they are carried out, but specific measures are also taken for the visually impaired and/or deaf. SNCB informs me that it does not opt for the free phone number of the contact center. The unique call center number 02/528.28.28 has been chosen as it is easier for the customer to have a single telephone contact point for all his requests: information, products, schedules, assistance requests. As far as your question about the high-speed train is concerned, it is older equipment, mainly classic green trainsets, quadruple cars and M5. This equipment continues to circulate throughout the network. There are no specific rules for putting this equipment into service in a particular region.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u44	I thank the minister for the complete answer he has given me. The management contract provides for things and I believe that we will continue to work in this direction. That seems indispensable to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u45	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Geerts' 13180 was converted to a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u46	Mr Minister, in 2011 B-Holding and FIETSENWERK Blue-mobility set up the system of bikes in our country, following the example of the OV-fiets in the Netherlands. Meanwhile, the counter is at 47 stations. There were 140 000 journeys in 2015 and 180 000 journeys are expected in 2016. According to a study by Blue-mobility, the Blue-bikeritten provide 30 % of new train passengers. I have questions about the development, because in the recent past there have been some doubts about it. What budget does SNCB make available to Blue-Mobility for the extension of Blue-Bike Points to SNCB stations? In what period can enlargement be achieved?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u47	Mr Geerts, since 2015, B-Parking, a subsidiary of SNCB, has been the main shareholder of Blue-Bike. An amount of €80 000 is currently available for the extension of Blue Bike Points to SNCB stations. With that budget, 15 existing locations can be embedded. Given the shareholder structure, the investment budget for the expansion of Blue-bike now lies with B-Parking. However, the budget and business plan for 2017-2020 have not yet been approved by the competent body of the companies concerned. Blue-mobility currently uses the following parameters for the realization of a Blue-bike point at a station. Firstly, there must be at least 20 000 inhabitants living in the city or municipality. Secondly, there must be at least 2 000 departing passengers per day. Thirdly, on modal split bicycle use: for Flanders at least 7%, for Wallonia at least 2%. Fourthly, there must be a financial contribution from the local government to the operational operation by bike, for example EUR 5 400 per year for 12 bicycles. Fifth, the municipality must agree to the local promotion of the system. In addition, it should not be forgotten that De Lijn and SRWT are also shareholders of Blue-mobility. The extension of Blue-bike is therefore not limited to the Blue-bike points at the train stations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I was mainly concerned with clarifying the budget for 2017 because local authorities, especially the vessels of Mobility, should be able to know which projects can be effectively implemented. Those vessels of Mobility are now being asked about this, while there is still no clarity about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u49	Minister, during the 19u-journaal of August 10th, a bomb threat came in. According to the news editors, there would be bomb packages on two planes. After several visits I have made, I was wondering if, if this were the case, there should be no alarm procedure whereby the fire department and emergency services should proceed preventively? I was surprised because I didn't see any movement when I heard that bomb threat on the news. That is why I wonder what happens when that announcement is made. It's weird that people say there are indications of a bomb threat, but nothing happens. Has DGLV been involved and, if so, when? The DGLV does not actually exist throughout this story, there was only talk about Belgocontrol. I think BAC should have the fire department pulled out, but apparently that didn't happen? Who's gonna make this decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u50	According to DGLV on 10 August, information had arrived via a few messages on Twitter, which reported bombs aboard SAS, without any detail of specific flights. This was investigated by the Belgian parquet, but there were no indications of a possible attack. BAC shall have the necessary procedures in the event of disasters and incidents, including bomb notifications. On the one hand, DGLV ensures this as a competent authority and follows whether the mandatory exercises on these procedures are carried out. On the other hand, DGLV is immediately informed and involved in the crisis cell in the event of any disasters or incidents. DGLV was informed about the incident, but there was no need for certain measures as there was no concrete threat to aviation. The number of the departmental crisis cell of the FPS Mobility and Transport was accessible. This crisis cell was established to support the FPS and its stakeholders in crisis management, should contribute to the elaboration of national emergency plans for crises with direct and/or indirect impact on mobility, and should strengthen internal functioning. All the executives are represented in it. The crisis cell also has a passive watch service that is available 24/24 and 7/7 in case of crisis. DGLV is part of this watchkeeping service. The head of security of guard was informed by the federal police that there was a non-specific threat to a SAS flight, worldwide, without location, without time, without flight number. Certain Brussels Airport services were put on standby.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The reason I asked the question was that I had information that no one was available at DGLV and that Belgocontrol had therefore taken the initiative. That was the reason for me to say that there would be better people standing by at DGLV.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u52	Questions Nos 13182 and 13508 by Mr Geerts and Mr Foret are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dumery's 13185 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u53	Minister, FlixBus is a European provider of intercity buses in 16 different countries. The company is mainly active in Western Europe, also in Belgium since 2015. In almost all countries, FlixBus can make domestic journeys. This means getting out and getting out of the country without switching. For example, in the Netherlands you can easily get from Amsterdam to The Hague or in Croatia from Starigrad to Zagreb by bus. However, this is not possible in Belgium. This is apparently not allowed in Belgium; only foreign destinations can be chosen. The company works budget-friendly for travellers and it asks itself to make this possible in Belgium. Mr. Secretary, has the company approached you about this? Are there plans to meet the demand? What is the reason why this is not allowed in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u54	The FPS Mobility and Transport issues the permits for international regular bus transport. Applicants, both Belgian and foreign companies, are systematically reminded in the context of their licence application that licences do not allow travellers to take up and transfer to another place in Belgium. National regular transport, including national routes on an international line, is a regional competence. The extension of an international line permit to national routes would exceed federal competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u55	Mr Minister, if it is a regional competence, I will pass on the question to my fellow Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u56	Mr Minister, as early as 2013, it was widely announced that the Eurostar would be given a stop in the city of Antwerp. Of course, that's a great opportunity for a city like Antwerp. The tourism sector was already looking forward to it. They had even started a promotional campaign back then. However, that fairytale story came to an abrupt end last summer. In mid-August 2016, it was communicated that there would be no Eurostar stopover. Apparently, because London is outside the Schengen area, security costs would be too high. That's a bizarre explanation. As far as I know, London was already outside the Schengen area in 2013. That element was already known at the time and is not now a powerful argument, to delete the Eurostar stop point in Antwerp. Moreover, I am speaking from my experience in the construction sector, and it is possible to achieve more safety in a fairly simple way with, for example, interventions on the platforms. Mr Minister, first of all, why is there no stopping point for the Eurostar in Antwerp? Secondly, what were the estimated costs of the necessary security measures? Which works included this cost estimate? Was there no cheaper alternative to appropriate security measures? Thirdly, who should bear the cost of security measures? Is that Eurostar itself or SNCB? Fourthly, what agreements were made in 2013 and afterwards between SNCB, Infrabel and Eurostar for a Eurostar stopover in Antwerp? Which agreements were or were not respected?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u57	Mr Minister, I would like to follow up on additional questions. Mrs De Coninck has outlined the problem well. It was a message from mid-August 2016 in full cucumber time, which was not formally confirmed anywhere. It is therefore a good thing that you can clarify this point. I would also like to remind you that we visited the Eurostar terminal in Brussels-South about a year ago with the Infrastructure Committee. At that time, I asked those responsible whether, when the Eurostar is travelling via Antwerp and Rotterdam towards Amsterdam, such a terminal should be installed everywhere with all the necessary safety equipment. Then the thought trail was pushed forward to get all passengers from Amsterdam to Brussels, to do the security check there in the Brussels-South terminal and then to have them board again to drive to London. Of course, this is not ideal either, but it would be more rational to organise the control of passengers from the Netherlands and Belgium, namely in one place, in Brussels-South. It may be an alternative option to make the Eurostar connection possible, even in Antwerp. It would be good if you could clarify the Eurostar link between Amsterdam and London, which was announced at the time after the Fyra failed. Can you confirm that the Eurostar will not stop in Antwerp? Why is that? Why is that? If not, is there any research to see if there are any other slopes possible? How will the safeguards be done in Amsterdam, Schiphol and Rotterdam? After all, I assume that in the Netherlands there is the same problem as in Antwerp. Finally, it has been communicated that the stations Brussels-South, Antwerp-Central and Liège will be equipped with access tracks. Can these announced investments not facilitate the control to go to England?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u58	Mr Van den Bergh, as far as Eurostar is concerned, I refer you to Eurostar. That is an independent railway undertaking, which takes its decisions autonomously. The safety orders in the context of the Channel rail traffic are public service contracts entrusted by the Belgian State to SNCB. Securing the stations is also included. Passenger and baggage checks must be 100 % close. Appointments could be negotiated with Eurostar with a view to adapting the infrastructure for the reception of passengers travelling to London. The restrictions on security measures are known to all parties. It is up to Eurostar to tune the stops to this and to weigh possible alternatives. As a Belgian minister, I do not have the authority to communicate about security controls on Dutch territory. About the announced gates in Brussels-South, Antwerp-Central and Liège-Guillemins, I can inform you that for the sample checks of travellers and their luggage control equipment will be installed. There is an agreement in principle between the police and SNCB on this, which is now being refined for the sites. For security reasons, I cannot give you any details. The procurement procedure for the control equipment is under way. The equipment will be installed in the course of 2017. By then, the recruitment of additional security personnel at Securail will also be completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u60	Mr De Coninck, I am of course in favour of Mrs De Coninck's brief reply. Nevertheless, I still have a thought. Of course, Eurostar is an independent company, on which you as Minister have little competence. However, I would like to stress that the announcement to move the Eurostar to Amsterdam came after the dramatic fiasco of the Fyra. That possibility was then put forward by then CEO Descheemaecker as one of the alternative solutions in the long term and was therefore relevant to the public service provision between Belgium and the Netherlands. If this solution is called into question now, or if a stop at a particular station is not affected, contrary to what was announced at the time, it will have an effect on the public service provision between Belgium and the Netherlands. In this sense, it is a pity that we do not get clearer answers to our questions and a commitment from the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u61	Mr Minister, most recently I read in a press article that the station of Tourcoing, in France, was wonderful in terms of attendance and contrasted with its neighbouring city, which is Belgian, namely Mouscron. Indeed, the station of Tourcoing offers links that directly connect the commuters to the large stations of the region for very democratic prices. In addition, from September onwards, there will be 59 additional stops each week at the station of Tourcoing, between Lille and Belgium. This station will flourish thanks to a large influx of passengers. In addition, this will help to develop soft mobility, but will also contribute to the economic development of a city and region. This new contrast strongly with what is happening just a few steps away, but on the other side of the border, at Mouscron station. Indeed, and I have told you in a previous written question, the Moscronese are increasingly abandoning rail transport, on weekdays or on weekends, because of an insufficient transport offer, whether to reach the capital or the Walloon dorsal. Moreover, the outlook for commuters passing through this station is not good for the years to come. Indeed, the transport offer is not going to improve, as you will rely in part on this drop in traffic to draw up your 2017 transport plan. It is therefore an absolute nonsense! Minister, giving priority to rail transport by providing faster and more extensive links is the goal that every country that wants to fight global warming must set itself. Just a few months after agreeing to the objectives of COP 21, do you not consider it essential, if not indispensable, to make the stations of the country again attractive? Are you finally going to take the necessary steps to improve the transport offer at the Mouscron railway station, in particular via faster and more frequent connections to the country's railway stations? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u62	Dear colleague, SNCB informs me that it takes into account several elements in analysing the demand for both current and potential travellers. Passengers mounted by train station correspond to a probe, one week a year, on the entire SNCB network. This variable data should be compared with ticket and subscription sales and daily traffic on trains. All this information combined allows SNCB to make a diagnosis of the use of its 552 stations and to adapt the supply according to the demand found. Each year, SNCB carries more passengers. Train traffic has increased by almost 70% over the past 15 years. Every working day, 79 trains serve the Mouscron station. The latter is mainly served by regular IC lines that connect Mouscron to Courtrai, Ghent, Antwerp, Ath, Tournai, Lille and, of course, Brussels. In rush hours, Mouscron takes advantage of a complementary IC offer to Tournai, Mons, La Louvière, Charleroi and Namur. According to SNCB, all analyses tend to show that Mouscron's supply meets demand.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am not entirely convinced that SNCB is not mistaken. We are a bit in a scenario where the cat bites its tail, since we do a whole series of statistics to determine whether the supply is sufficient in relation to the number of people. However, I think it is because supply and customer service are not good enough that the figures are not good. In addition, there is another element that is not really taken into account: it is the geographical location of Mouscron, which is still out of reach and very close to France. We often talk a little about the Western Hainaut Far West. In my opinion, this is a problem for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u64	Mr President, Mr Geerts did not raise a question about the subway tunnel at Namur station and he is wrong. It is true that this is a local but nevertheless important problem. Minister, since Monday, August 29, it is no longer possible for pedestrians and people with reduced mobility to reach the sub-lane tunnel of Namur railway station via the underground car park located at Boulevard du Nord. Secure portals, accompanied by security guards, have been installed in order to limit access to motorists alone. This decision by SNCB thus deprives commuters, residents and students of the neighbourhood of easy access to the roads and the city centre. This inadequate decision was clearly not the subject of an agreement by the municipal authorities. They have made several counter-proposals to you in this regard. This decision will affect a large number of people (more than 5,000 depending on the counts) who used this passage daily to connect the different neighbourhoods of the city, without any satisfactory explanation being provided. Minister, one can only question the reasons why SNCB Holding made such a decision, contrary to the interests of the Namurians and, more particularly, to the soft users. Symbolically, it is particularly negative for the image of the railway undertaking among the inhabitants and users concerned. Minister, what are the reasons for this decision to close the parking lot at the pedestrian station? Are you of the opinion that this is a decision in charge of SNCB that promotes user-friendliness for weak users and residents of the station, as well as mutual-modality? Have there been any accidents in this parking lot between pedestrians and motorists? What consultation took place with representatives of the City, the neighbourhood committee, commuters on this decision? To what extent has SNCB taken into account the comments made in this possible consultation? Is it envisaged by the SNCB to reconsider this decision, which aroused many negative reactions, still today with a demonstration which took place at the entrance of the parking lot at the end of the morning? Does SNCB consider a walking alternative for travellers and residents who regularly use this passage? This can be a way to get out from the top of this difficulty. What was the cost of these developments? What is the cost of guarding at both ends of the parking lot? By whom will these costs be borne?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u65	Mr President, Mr Minister, my colleague has just said that the pedestrian access that connected both sides of the Namur train station by underground parking is now closed. This passage has been used for many years by commuters, pedestrians, students who can travel easily in this area. Today, the only access requires to climb on the slab of the station and then to go down again. It is a longer journey, but above all much more complicated for many people, especially for all people who have difficulty moving. Especially since the escalators and elevators overlooking the Boulevard du Nord, at the rear of the station, are frequently out of use. Minister, the city of Namur and its college have had contacts with SNCB. Alternatives were proposed. Can you tell me what are the different options discussed and why they are rejected by SNCB? Do you think you can play the mediators in this dossier, which provokes a lot of reactions from the Namurians?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u66	Colleagues, the SNCB informs me that its concern is to ensure safe access to its parking lot and the passage of soft modes between the neighborhoods of the city of Namur located on both sides of the station. In addition to the existing public crossing at the level of its Travel Centre, the SNCB extended the sidewalk to 3.20 metres towards the Louvain bridge along its new Saint-Luc parking lot, which was put into operation on 22 August. SNCB refers to several reasons that led it to make this decision. First, pedestrians and cyclists used the entrance and exit ramps of the underground parking lot at the station. These ramps are by no means a pedestrian or cycling road. Over time, this use has intensified with an increasing risk of accidents. Motorists found themselves face to face with pedestrians, sometimes with a stroller, and cyclists. Since the policy has already notified SNCB that its liability would be incurred in the event of an accident, the railway company has decided to take the necessary action. Indeed, prevention is better than cure. Signs prohibiting pedestrians and cyclists have been put in place but are not respected. SNCB then installed a physical device to prevent this dangerous crossing. There is a public pedestrian crossing on Boulevard du Nord, which leads to an official entrance to the station. There is therefore no question of removing access to the station but of enforcing a ban on the use of a parking ramp as a way through. Today, access to the parking lot is reserved for parking users only, as provided for in the rules of procedure. Several pedestrians have already been hit by vehicles, with incidents between pedestrians and drivers. The police have criminalized SNCB's liability. In addition, numerous complaints of glass breakage, damage and theft were also filed. Moreover, beyond the pedestrian crossing, indelicates would take advantage of this passage to commit depredations in the parking lot: graffiti, destruction of elevators, urine, drugs, fire, etc. It is my responsibility that the decision to close this access has been announced to the local authorities for many months. Information was also displayed in pedestrian accesses. SNCB met many times with the Public Ways-Mobility department of the city, in particular the desire to end the transit passage was clearly expressed in several letters addressed to the mayor, the aldermen and the general manager. During various public presentations, SNCB has always confirmed its willingness to put an end to this dangerous and illegal transit during the reorganisation of car parks. SNCB recalls that an alternative exists via the Boulevard du Nord and the slab at the level of the Travel Center. SNCB states that it will not revert to this decision, which would call into question the security of access to its car park, given that residents have other secure crossings and that the police may incriminate its liability in the event of an accident. The soft-mode developments that integrate the new Saint-Luc car park into its urban environment have been taken care of as part of the establishment of this new 480-seat car park on the SPF endowment. Secure road and pedestrian access controls and portals have been taken over by SNCB's subsidiary B-Parking, which is responsible for the operation of all network car parks. The cost of such equipment is estimated at EUR 130 000.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u67	Mr Minister, I regret that you are merely relaying here the response provided by SNCB, without seeking to find a solution that could meet both the safety concerns of users of SNCB's car park and the mobility concerns of weak users. The solutions implemented, with the extended possibility of using the Louvain bridge for pedestrians, or the station hall as such, are not sufficient in relation to the needs of the persons concerned. I think, minister, that if you put your weight on it, it is possible to put all the interlocutors around the table, to look for complementary solutions, either by setting up, in the parking lot, a corridor that would be accessible only to pedestrians, by meeting the objective of securing the parking lot and its access, or by setting up another passage over the tracks, in connection with the new parking lot Saint-Luc that you have quoted. I therefore ask you, Minister, to put the interlocutors around the table and to seek a solution that meets the interests and expectations of all citizens. The closure of this parking lot and the placement of security agents at its entrances give a rather deplorable image of SNCB for the many Namurians who used this passage for purposes of soft mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u68	Mr Minister, thank you for your answers, even though, like my colleague, I must admit that I am sorry that you simply relayed to us here the position we know and which is that of SNCB on this passage. Like my colleague, I would also like to encourage you to re-invite the actors around the table to find a solution. Alternative solutions exist and have been proposed at one time. Some might satisfy the majority if SNCB agreed to hear, to seek a solution as well, and not simply camp on its positions. Minister, we jointly call on you to try to play this role as minister, to put people around the table and to find a solution for the Namurians.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u69	I will, but only on the condition that the local security authority guarantees that no act of vandalism will be committed in the parking lot, which is a private domain of the SNCB, and that no incident will take place with the people passing through. The local authority is responsible for security in a public place, not SNCB. Therefore, if responsibility were to be incurred as a result of an accident, it would be abnormal from the moment the local authority was notified of the existence of incidents. Fires, depredations or other problems cannot be accepted simply because parking is used. This is not SNCB's responsibility. I am prepared to discuss this again, and I have already told the local authorities about it, but the duty to supervise a public space is not the responsibility of SNCB. In addition, the authorities concerned have been repeatedly alerted to incidents without finding an adequate solution. It was after a somewhat more serious act that the decision was formally taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u70	Minister, I take note of a half-opening on your part. I can therefore consider that, at your initiative, a new meeting could be held between SNCB and the City authorities. I would simply like to remind you that proposals have been made by the latter to reach the interests and expectations of the users who cross this space, which may be private, but which is considered de facto by the citizens as public. I think it is important that stations be integrated into their living environment. At this stage, however, SNCB has not followed them. If good will to take account of each other's interests is manifested, a solution may be found. At the very least, a willingness to engage in dialogue is necessary. If you could use your weight as a minister to ensure that the dialogue resumes and that the proposals of the City of Namur, in particular, are seriously considered, I think that would be positive. I will therefore welcome the continuation of dialogue and the search for solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u71	Minister, I'm joining my colleague. In any case, I would like to emphasize your openness. We will, of course, pay attention to the fact that it will be translated into concrete action in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u72	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Vanheste's 13292 has been postponed. This also applies to Question No 1, by Mr De Gucht, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European People's Party (Christian
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u73	Mr President, Minister, on 6 September 2016 appeared surprisingly in the press the contents of a letter from Mr Cornu, who is still there, to Mr Lallemand who, too, is still there. It was a little easy. So I allowed myself to say it. The former was surprised to see Infrabel put forward working hypotheses related to the closure, single tracking or deselectrification of certain lines. These assumptions are linked, once again, to the savings plan imposed by the government at the beginning of the legislature on SNCB and Infrabel. After scraping the drawer bottoms, and in the absence of precise guidelines, Infrabel goes very far in its search to deal with these savings, often in opposition to your guidelines, in any case those that appear. I see it as the consequence of several enormous problems of substance. First, the savings imposed on SNCB and Infrabel. I'll come back because it's still the important thing. Secondly, the reform of the structures of the SNCB under the former legislature is a real failure in terms of harmonisation. It is enough to see the state of the relationship between the two CEOs and not the COOs. The two companies do not really communicate about the essentials, competing with each other. I am not referring here to the issue of infrastructure charges, which give us rather pathetic arguments. Finally, this is the beginning of the problems related to underinvestment in capacity maintenance since 2009. I do not come back to this for a long time because I tabled a motion for a resolution which took place in the plenary of the House before the summer. The delay announced by the Lausanne Polytechnic School and various study offices is beginning to be felt in the maintenance of capacity: the elementary, the catenaries, the ways, etc. The cost of maintenance of the tracks is exploding and it will soon be impossible to assume this position on certain lines, already classified discreetly in category "C" by Infrabel, justifying at the time a decrease in their maintenance. Minister, I have many questions that I have summarized. What are the lines concerned by Infrabel's assumptions? Are these assumptions related to the 2017 transport plan that is already being prepared? Were Infrabel's work paths known to the government or the railway investment unit that was recently created by law? What will you do to bridge the gap and under-investment in capacity maintenance? Is it not time to reorganise these two companies so that they finally work together and conserve, in a spirit of cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u74	My colleague, in accordance with the budgetary context, significant efforts are being made by Infrabel and SNCB to increase productivity in both companies. To the extent that this must also be accompanied by the maintenance of a maximum service to the client, the choice of measures that each company will take to do so is crucial. Ultimately, efforts must be driven by a common vision between the two companies and the government, from rail mobility to the service of users. It is in this context that discussions are taking place to identify strategies that converge. The disclosure of letters that are part of the debate between the two companies, however, is not the most productive way to achieve these conciliatable strategies. I condemn this type of practice with the utmost firmness. I can tell you that my intention remains to maintain integrity and, above all, sufficient infrastructure capacity. It seems to me important that the necessary investments and the planned maintenance can, moreover, maintain the quality of the entire network at the level of both the main lines and the rural lines. The railway infrastructure must enable a significant supply to be ensured. It is these guarantees that I wish to include in the next management contract for Infrabel and SNCB. The conclusion of a management contract punctuates an agreement between the State and the company. This contract covers a set of elements, including the means granted, the minimum offer, the quality of the offer and future investments. With regard to this last point, I continue to focus on maintaining sufficient railway infrastructure capacity. The height of the future infrastructure user charge is an essential element in the financial model for Infrabel and SNCB. I would like to develop a shared approach between the two companies in terms of objectives and user awareness. As a result, similar and consistent objectives will be reflected in the two management contracts. My will is that the infrastructure charge no longer constitutes a barrier to the development of the additional rail supply, whether in terms of train-kilometres or the policy of stoppages. A position of principle has been established. I look forward to proposals from Infrabel in this direction that comply with the requirements of the European Union Directive 2012/34.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u75	Mr Minister, first of all, I would like to welcome the firm condemnation that you have just made of what has been called the "negotiation methods" between Infrabel and SNCB, which do not escape the attentive observers. This kind of mail never finds itself in the press by chance. We see it in the political world. Clearly, SNCB and Infrabel have inherited these "good practices". Your condemnation is quite desirable, but in the middle of it, it still shows the limits of structural reforms. I won't say any more in the line. Two, I am also glad to understand that you do not support the content of the missive, because there is the form and content. I'm waiting, you know, impatiently. It's a word that comes back a lot. At SNCB, you have to be patient for the train, to wait for it, to take it, but also for management contracts, for the investment priority plan. I learned to wait. I'm a marathonian, you know. It doesn't scare me: I like duration. But I wouldn't want to end up in Woody Allen, like I said earlier. Three, I can see it's one of the nodes of conflict. We saw it at the hearings: it was felt, it was nice, it was diplomatic, we thought we were at the Berlin congress. However, we have understood Mrs Billiau, Mr Lallemand, Mr Cornu. We see that the main stumbling block is infrastructure charges. Because beyond what is desirable... I am pleased to hear you say that infrastructure charges should not be a hindrance in terms of supply, in particular the question of stops, the question of train kilometres etc. You're absolutely right, it's an essential node. But the infrastructure fee also contributes to the financing methodology of the two structures. It's a closed world. What's not going to go to each other will go to the other. There is a global concern for general funding. I imagine the difficulty, but I welcome the principles that you have expressed here. Finally, I note an interest, as far as you are concerned, in the problem of maintaining capacity. This is really a very important issue. We've talked about it a lot. Mr Cornu is used to saying that 8 billion have been donated to Infrabel in recent years for no benefit to the traveller. Well, that's still pretty much true. I think the key to future management contracts is this: the ability to choose investments that have a significant impact on the ability to accommodate rail users more and more. It is the core business of these companies; I have the impression that it has been forgotten a little in recent years. In short, Minister, I am much more reassured here than I am about the question of the billion for the RSP earlier. For the rest, we will be impatient in patience.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u76	Minister, under the October 11, 2011 institutional agreement, it was planned to create a structure within the SNCB, in which the three Regions and the federal government will be represented to jointly manage the operation of the SNCB's RES. In implementation of the agreement for the sixth reform of the State, the RER policy committee was indeed set up by a law of 19 April 2014 amending the law of 21 March 1991 on the reform of certain public economic enterprises. Section 5 of the Act specifies the tasks of the committee, which is to prepare a proposal for a five-year plan for the operation of the ER, which must in any case include the following:1. An assessment of the current situation with respect to the operation of the ER. 2. The strategic and operational objectives relating to the operation of the RES with an action plan including the planning of the actions to be undertaken, their budgetary impact, the staff required and the timing for their implementation for the next five years. 3. Detailed planning, for the next five years, of actions to be undertaken in the area of the operation of the ER. 4. A detailed explanation of the financial resources, staffing requirements and projected deadlines required for each of the actions referred to in point 3. The SNCB Management Report prepared by the Board of Directors and presented to the General Assembly on 29 May 2015 states that this Steering Committee could not yet be set up because the representatives of the Regions have not been appointed to the Board of Directors. They are ex officio members of the Steering Committee. According to the information which I have recently received, particularly at the level of the Brussels Region, it appears that the representatives of the Brussels Region have been appointed and their names transmitted to your firm, but that the installation is not yet effective. In such an essential case which has been fuelling the news for several months, it must be noted that there is not only the ER projects which are lagging behind, and that it is necessarily harmful that such an essential support committee supposed to support decision-makers within the company is still not in a position to be operational, almost two years after the adoption of the law. As a result, Minister, can you let me know what are the legal and actual reasons for such a delay in the installation of the RSP Steering Committee? Within what reasonable period of time will it be in a position to function and what missions will be allocated as a matter of priority?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u77	Mr Minister, my questions are in line with the previous one on the GEN Orientation Committee. If I am a little tormented, I think I remember signing the legislative text in the previous legislature, just like Mr Van den Bergh, because it was a very urgent matter. That law had to be approved at all prices. If that's what happened to the realization of the GEN, I'd like to do it. But to be honest, at the time, I didn't see the point in doing that so quickly. In any case, we have been loyal and submitted the proposal, because it was important for the various governmental parties. Now I see that the committee has still not started a few years after the date. The urgency must have had a reason, right? Why isn't the committee still working? What is the timing for the effective entry into force of the text?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u78	The establishment of the RER Steering Committee depends, among other things, on the proposal of candidates from the Regions. These proposals must be submitted in accordance with linguistic and gender parity. At this stage, the designation process is under way. No specific date can be advanced at this time. I can add that the Regions are well present, even before the adoption of the law of 20 July this year. They were already represented in the investment unit. They were directly associated with it at the time this government took office. We see each month and a half in the ECMM (Executive Committee of Ministers for Mobility), which ensures transparency with regard to all SNCB projects that are mature or decisions to be taken. However, I can assure you that considerable progress has been made since the accession of this government in terms of the commercial positioning of suburban rail supply, the so-called S offer in and around Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u79	Minister, thank you. I don't really have a very consistent answer. We'll wait. What are we going to do? Finally, what is your power to speed things up?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u80	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u81	Yeah, and then what? What's the follow-up going to be? I am surprised at your answer. I'm not satisfied.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u82	I believe that the result will be that this legislation will remain dead letter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u83	That'll tell the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u84	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 134, by Mr Piedboeuf 13404 by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u85	Mr Minister, according to some reports, SNCB staff who are late for work due to delays in the train should no longer charge this as working time. That time would be deducted from the holidays, some employees tell me. I recently went to Mechelen to give social promotions and I have been confirmed that this is the case. It is also stated that a person who is repeatedly late is still losing contributions. Are these allegations true? What are the differences compared to the previous scheme? Does this measure apply to all railway workers, both the employees of SNCB and of Infrastructure, or only to workshops? Have we ever calculated the average loss of working time per employee? How much are we talking about? What premiums are not paid and how many train delays are charged here in order to withdraw a premium? What agreements resulted from the consultation between trade unions and management on 6 September 2016? Finally, I don't understand something. In any organization with a little flexible working time, if one starts later in the morning, one can work a little longer in the evening. Then there is no need for all this regulation. I'd be happy to wait for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u86	Mr President, Minister, the workshops in Malines and Salzinnes are affected by a new system of accounting for delays. For example, people who go to work by train and arrive late because of it can no longer count these minutes in their working time. An hour of beginning work is set, so as not to keep the rest of the team waiting, and the minutes of delay are deducted from the holidays. This system may seem at least paradoxical given that SNCB penalizes its employees for a delay which is to be attributed to its own services. Minister, how should this new backlog accounting system be interpreted in both workshops? Should this be seen as an experience that would eventually be extended to all workshop and administrative staff? What are the reasons given by these two workshops for this challenging and difficult-to-understand change in the accounting of delays? Has there been any prior consultation with workers' representatives? Finally, although we understand a certain autonomy of the management workshops, of course this is done systematically within the framework of the consultation, is it not, however, harmful for railway workers to have a differentiation in the accounting of delays?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u87	Dear colleague, in the context of increasing productivity, the time bonus for train delays for staff employed in the work system with variable working hours was indeed abolished from 1 March 2016. Prior to this measure, train delays experienced by the SNCB personnel concerned were treated as working time. This was not the case for those who arrived late as a result of an accident or incident on the road. This is not the case for any worker whose employer is not SNCB. Such a difference in treatment is astonishing, and the word is weak. This measure was taken for all employees of the Belgian Railways working in a working system with variable working hours, as it already applied to the rest of the staff. The average loss of working time per employee employed in variable working hours in 2015 was therefore 2 hours and 31 minutes. If we add that up for all employees in the variable working time, we are talking about 15 741,44 hours of train delays in 2015. The rules governing this are being applied effectively. However, any delay has no impact on premiums. That item was not discussed at the meeting in Mechelen on 6 September.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u88	Minister, if I understand correctly, there is no reduction in premiums. In the context of variable working time, an employee who is late tomorrow must compensate for that evening, which seems logical to me. Is that a correct interpretation? Is everything that has been sent to the world, such as a reduction in holidays and so on, no longer a matter of time?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u89	Yes, it's only about working time for the employees with variable working hours. That's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u90	According to the information I received, the meeting of 6 September was rather turbulent. At some point there would have been a reduction in premiums, holidays and so on. All the staff I have spoken to understand that, if they are late, they will have to compensate for their evening work. Apparently, that message should be made clear after all. This is not clear at the moment in the workshops and there is a great deal of tension, which may have been avoided or could have been avoided.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u91	For us, this was not discussed at the meeting on 6 September. This applies to all SNCB staff, point. There is not one workshop that is differentiated from the others: it is applied everywhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u92	Mr Minister, that is why I am asking the question here. At that meeting of 6 September, which ended very turbulently, it was at a certain point that it was concluded that, if one were to be late in the morning, one would no longer be able to compensate for the hours of the evening, as was always the case, and that those hours would be deducted from the holidays. Right now, you need to give the order to formally remove that from HR Rail, so that the tension disappears.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u93	You have to rest a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u94	Minister, thank you for your answers. It will be interesting to have the additional information requested by my colleague. I think that, since we are dealing with a staff who use the company's means of transport to get to work, we cannot quite consider that to be the same thing as for everyone, contrary to what you point out in your answer. I think that this might also be a way of motivating the company to increase its productivity by acting on variables other than those that only affect staff. I do not consider this decision to be just. I would point out that, contrary to what you said in your answer, in other places, there is a difference in the way it is done and staff are allowed to have a form of flexibility in relation to delays, which are due in particular to public transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u95	At SNCB?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u96	No, not at SNCB, but you indicated that what was decided at SNCB today followed the example of what was happening everywhere else. I know many places where this is not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u97	Question No 13446 by Mrs Lalieux is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u98	Minister, I have pointed out to your predecessor several times that the station in Hasselt is in a sad state. The highly outdated building is dirty, unsafe and barely accessible for the elderly and disabled. There is therefore a need for a thorough renovation. In her reply at the time to my plea for renewal and modernisation, she referred to the ongoing multi-annual investment plan. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. A few days ago, Het Belang van Limburg again noted complaints about decay, crumbling wall tiles, worn-out floor mats and escalators that have been defective for weeks. Are you aware of the appalling state of Hasselt's station? Do you agree with me that a thorough renovation can no longer be avoided? Are you also prepared to undertake the necessary maintenance and renovation work in the short term with a view to a more modern and accessible station? Are you prepared to make the necessary additional resources available? In the previous multi-annual investment plan, an amount of €42 million was earmarked for several projects in and around the station, renewal and capacity increase. Of this, EUR 400 000 would have been invested in 2013. Is that message correct? If so, how much was that amount spent? Is the plan for a renewal of the Hasselt station as included in the previous multi-annual investment plan still on the table? Will that as such be preserved in the new plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u99	SNCB informs me that she is certainly aware that the reception infrastructure at Hasselt station is not optimal. In a previous version of Hasselt's master plan for the station environment, priority was given to the works needed to connect to the Spartacus project, a Limburg project with a view to developing a number of provincial tram lines in the province with the station as a hub. The improvement in the reception of passengers, the state of the platforms and access to the platforms was planned only at a later stage. SNCB therefore decided in the first half of 2016 to review the project of the station in Hasselt. Priority is given to investments that can contribute in the relatively short term to improving passengers' comfort and convenience. Work such as platform renewal, lifts, escalators, is therefore foreseen in the proposal of SNCB's 2016-2020 multi-annual investment plan from 2019 onwards. The total amount of work has been estimated by SNCB at EUR 11.6 million. The amounts referred to in your question are no longer common for the future renovation of the Hasselt station. This is not yet a final decision, partly because the multi-annual investment plans have not yet been finalised.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u100	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I welcome your recognition that the infrastructure is quite poor. You say that it is not optimal; that is an understatement, Minister. The situation is quite scandalous. I don't know if you've ever passed Hasselt station, but you should. I'd be happy to take you with me sometime. It is right that the previous multi-annual investment plan earmarked a considerable amount for renewal and renovation. I understand that a number of infrastructure works will still take place. We'll follow up or we'll do it. In any case, the works should not be limited to the patching up. In no other provincial capital is the station so bad. It is embarrassing for us, Limburgers, to receive compatriots in that place.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u101	Question No 13506 by Mr Foret is transformed into a written question, together with the attached questions No 13509 by Mr Foret and No 13723 by Mr Geerts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u102	I don't know Lobbes. Where is it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u103	Mr. President, it's right next to Thuin. Minister, on October 28, 2015, I asked a question to the one before you about a small problem at the Lobbes station that would still not appear to have been resolved. In the past, the Lobbes station was equipped with an underground crossing allowing passengers to access the three tracks of the station. This underground was monitored by the station chief, who also monitored the passage of trains, etc. Today, for lack of means, the underground passage has been closed. All trains are forced to stop on the same track, track 3. The many freight trains – there are still a few, on the Maubeuge-Charleroi line passing through it – and the trains carrying passengers on line 130A – which is also an important link from this point of view – are victims of certain traffic and slowing down. Ms. Galant assured me that, in the longer term, the construction of a sub-lane corridor should completely eliminate the current level crossing, so that staff would no longer be required to monitor it on a weekly basis. Minister, could you give us any details about the construction of this subway corridor? Are you going in the same direction as Mrs. Galant? Is it planned to be built in the near future? Mrs Galant was talking about "long term", could you give me a specific period during which this construction could take place, so that it would not be postponed to the Greek holds? Thank you already for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u104	Colleagues, Lobbes is a stop point for some 194 travellers every day of the week. The station building is occupied by Infrabel on the ground floor only, until 2019. The floor of the building is unsanitary and has no access. For the moment, according to SNCB, it seems that the municipality is not in a position to determine what the building will be affected, but the discussions are expected to take place in the course of 2018. It should be noted that the sub-lane corridor project with parking is linked to the development of the Abbey Street and the regional road bridge by the SPW and Infrabel. I don't know the place. In view of the fact that the IPP is being developed and that there is a need for consultation between the various partners involved in the matter, namely the municipality, SNCB, SPW and Infrabel, it is not possible for me to give you a timing regarding the work in question at this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u105	Mr Minister, first of all, I did not ask you about the building, but I thank you for your information. That was not the subject of my question at all. As far as the subject of my question is concerned, it seems to me a little easy to refer me to the SPW and to the commune. This is about access to the railways, not access to the road. If you take me back to these instances, I will take note of them and share them with the residents and users. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u106	Mr President, the next item is my question. 13543 on accidents to consider in ports. I suggest that we turn this question into a written question and get your answer in writing, so that we can buy some time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u107	Minister, during the first half of this year there was social unrest on the track, which translated into a number of strikes announced, particularly on 31 May and 24 June. Those strikes went according to protocol. However, it is now apparent that employees of certain grades at Infrabel and some employees of SNCB's central workshop received a reduction in their contributions after a strike. Moreover, according to my information, some were given the indication in their personnel files that they have ceased, which seems to have an effect on the further progress of the career. Are those allegations true? How many employees at Infrabel, in particular grade 3 of the I-TMS service, participated in the announced strike days in 2016? How many of them have seen a change in their contribution coefficient after participating in the strikes? What's the exact reason for that premium cut? How many people have gotten a comment in their personnel file? What's the impact on their careers? Does this not undermine the right to strike?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u108	Mr President, as such I am not aware of the concrete assertion, but Infrabel and SNCB point out to me that productivity premiums take into account the number of hours of service and the individual assessment coefficient of each employee. A reduction in the level of an individual productivity premium may therefore be linked to a reduction in the number of performance hours and/or a reduction in the assessment coefficient. Infrabel informs me that at the beginning of June 11 staff members in grade 3 of the I-TMS service were on the attendance lists as having ceased on 24 and/or 31 May 2016, the announced strike days in the period May-June 2016. Nine employees have seen their contribution coefficient fall. However, there is no indication that this would be related to their absence because of strike and that there would therefore be a factual limitation of the right to strike. None of the 11 employees received a comment in their personnel files. SNCB informs me that there is a reduction in the productivity premium for 191 employees in May 2016 and for 111 employees in June 2015. In view of the fact that the reduction may have different causes, it is also not clear whether it is wholly or partly related to an absence because of strike. In any event, SNCB's management stresses that no instructions were given from above in this respect. However, the reduction in productivity premiums cannot be confused with disciplinary sanctions, which have sometimes been imposed on staff as a result of wild strikes and which are mentioned in the personnel file.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u109	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. For the record, I am not talking about wild strikes here, but only about strikes in accordance with the closed protocol. We will follow it up further in further written questions, because the impression has nevertheless been given that there have been effective reductions in the coefficient of premium for Infrabel's participation in strikes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u110	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 13584 by Mrs Van Camp 13594 by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u111	Mr President, Minister, a few days ago we heard that there are 40 out of 172 jobs at Eurostation. The reason is that, of course, the company suffers from a significant decrease in turnover due to the reduced performance of real estate projects, including by SNCB itself. Quite specifically, does this intention actually have to do with the three billion savings package imposed by the Michael administration? What projects the company had foreseen in the 2013-2025 Multiannual Investment Plan are now missing, forcing SNCB to slim down at Eurostation? Can the impact of the amount of EUR 1 billion, which we discussed earlier, provide any perspective for Eurostation? Are there any other jobs threatened by the various savings? I'm thinking of the 150 jobs at TUC RAIL.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u112	Mr President, Minister, the Board of Directors of Eurostation has announced its intention to proceed with the collective redundancies of part of its staff. The Council justifies this dismissal by a significant decrease in the company's turnover, which is expected to increase in the coming years, given the decrease in the number of missions. Given the scale of the dismissal (more than 20% of the staff, i.e. some 40 people), an information and consultation procedure is under way. Mr Minister, I hope that Eurostat does not wish to redundancies. She could use pre-boarding. In order to do so, it must obtain the status of a company undergoing restructuring, which is the responsibility of the Minister of Social Affairs. It could also consider transferring part of its staff to the SNCB Group or one of its subsidiaries. Minister, what are Eurostat's intentions with regard to dismissal? Does it consider the use of pre-pension? If so, how many workers would they be affected? Have you had contact with your colleague Kris Peeters regarding the possibility of obtaining restructuring status? Is there any possibility of internal transfer of Eurostat staff in order to minimise redundancies?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u113	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, different developments have played a role in the formulation of the intention to dismiss Eurostation. A number of major projects have been completed or finalized in the 2014-15 period, or will be completed in 2016. Similarly, the majority of the projects included in the cooperation agreement with Infrabel have been carried out or stopped over the past years. Infrabel now entrusts its new projects to TUC RAIL, which is its own subsidiary. As far as the investment plan for the period 2016-2020 is concerned, we still have to wait to know what railway station projects will be included in the plan. In the context of future investments, priority will be given to transport supply, i.e. passenger services. Therefore, the real estate projects will concern specific features of the stations, such as the upgrading of the docks. There will no longer be major railway station projects, where prestige sometimes prevails over the real needs of travellers. To the extent that it is possible that more than 10% of the staff are involved, the information and consultation procedure has been initiated, in accordance with the legal provisions. This procedure is still in progress and it is therefore too early to be able to provide further details, for example on bridge pensions. As far as TUC RAIL is concerned, Infrabel informs me that, for the time being, all assumptions are being examined so that the parent company can also continue to assume jointly with TUC RAIL the tasks for which Infrabel will be responsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u114	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I have always been a modest man, both in the majority and in the opposition, with regard to the stations and all major projects. We need to invest properly, but we need to invest in the things that are important to the people. All other prestige projects should be omitted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u115	Minister, thank you for these answers. As far as developments related to prestige investments are concerned, I can of course only agree with my colleague. Nevertheless, here they are people. I hope that the situation of each of these people can be taken into account in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u116	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Grovonius' 13600 has already been dealt with under item 18 of the agenda. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 13611 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu 13630 by Mrs Poncelet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u117	Mr Minister, yesterday there was a communication on the new regulations on speed pedals. The Royal Decree was published in the Belgian Official Journal two weeks ago, on 9 September, if I am not mistaken. It shall enter into force on 1 October. The Royal Decree makes the regulations clear now. Those vehicles have actually been in uncertainty in the last few months, because they had no place in the road code. That's changing now. From October 1st the speed pedelecs will also get a smaller number shelf, which also puts an end to the uncertainty about this. This applies equally to mopeds which must be given such a number plate. Meanwhile, we hear criticism from your Flemish fellow minister. I found that somewhat odd, because the comments he made were not included in the Flemish Government's opinion, and in that sense I found that criticism somewhat unfortunate. Another element is the clear European directive, according to which speed pedals can only be categorized under the mopeds. Personally, I also find this unfortunate, because it creates uncertainty about the bicycle fee for users of speed pedals. I think it would be good to remove that uncertainty as soon as possible. Mr Minister, are you planning an additional information campaign, in addition to yesterday's press conference, on the new regulations for potential drivers and sellers? The key, in my opinion, lies in informing the sellers properly, so that they know the new rules well. Will there be a transitional arrangement for the equipment of the speed pedals and de facto the mopeds for registration and the new number plates? As of October 1st, this is mandatory, but I assume that not all speed pedals can be equipped with a license plate from October 1st. Are specific adjustments needed to the provisional driving licence AM or the driving exam AM for drivers driving a speed pedelec? If so, what adjustments are needed and when will they be operational? How is contact with the Regions going about this? Finally, speed pedelecs are allowed on reserved roads according to the new royal decree. These are especially the roads marked by the blue square F99 sign. Article 29 of the Royal Decree provides for an F99 board with a speed pedelecs logo. My question is whether all existing signs F99a and F99c will have to be replaced to make it clear that a speed pedelec will also have a place on those roads. If so, by when will that have to happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u118	Mr Van den Bergh, a brochure has been prepared for this purpose by my administration and has already been sent to all bicycle dealers. The BIVV will also distribute them through its network. In addition, it is also possible to consult the brochure on the website of the FPS Mobility and Transport, together with a number of answers to frequently asked questions. As is customary following an amendment to the traffic regulations, my administration has also informed all stakeholders, including the police and the judiciary, of the new regulation, which will enter into force on 1 October. The transitional period for the registration of speed pedelecs is identical to that for mopeds, in particular until 11 December 2016. However, it will be considered whether an extension is necessary. If a license plate has already been applied for in the past, the person concerned will have to take the initiative to apply for a new license plate. After all, it is impossible to filter the number of registered speed pedals from the total number of mopeds registered. In the future, that will be possible. The knowledge and skills determined for obtaining a driving licence AM for driving a classic moped are equally applicable to the drivers of speed pedelecs. Nevertheless, the regions can adapt the training and the way in which the knowledge and skills are tested as they see fit. In addition to the consultation provided for by the law, the Regions were closely involved in the drafting of the rules on speed pedelecs from the outset. In addition, my impression is that the regions are now well aware of the powers conferred on them by the latest state reform. As provided for in Article 22quinquies and Article 22octies, drivers of speed pedelecs are only allowed to use reserved roads if the symbol intended for this purpose is on the road signs of type F99. The choice of "no obligation "to allow drivers of speed pedelecs to use reserved roads belongs to the road managers. There is therefore no time-limit within which signs should be adjusted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u119	Thank you, Minister, for your answers, which clarify this. They also provide sufficient answers to questions related to the campaign and so on. I have one remark on the reserved roads. These roads are ideally suited to travel certain distances with such bicycles. They are quiet roads, long roads often, agricultural roads. Just there one has to wait until the signs are replaced before one can drive on those roads with a speed pedal. It may take some time. In addition, we are again charging road managers. I wonder whether the same is true of the bicycle fee for users of speed pedals or whether simpler solutions could not be devised, whereby this separate category of mopeds is automatically assimilated to bicycles for certain purposes. I think we need to take a good look at whether we can make it easier for road managers to allow the use of speed pedals on certain roads.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u120	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanden Burre's 13659 is being postponed. The same applies to Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u121	Minister, the Namibian commuters are again being mistreated. After the abolition of the first and last trains of the day, after an extension of the journey time of fifteen minutes between Namur and Brussels, after the abolition of the Thalys, and while the work of the RER is still stagnant, other works are being undertaken. Of course, this work must be done – I do not question them – because it is important to secure the roads and protect them from falling back. However, this is starting to do a lot for Namurians! Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you indicate the precise timetable for this work, whether it is the securing of the walls near Namur, but also the work at Neufchâteau? Four peak trains per day will be abolished on line 161, as will four trains per day for the Brussels-Luxembourg line during the duration of this work. What measures are being taken to limit the impact on the use of other trains and to ensure that passengers can continue to travel in the best possible comfort conditions? Finally, Infrabel's forecasts indicated that this work should cause five minutes of delay between Ottignies and Brussels. After several days of implementation, are these forecasts confirmed? Do you have any information on the delays in recent days?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u122	Dear colleague, first of all for Neufchâteau, this is a very important collapse of slopes which suffered exceptional flooding in June. The consolidation work was undertaken as a matter of urgency to keep the two tracks in service with a train speed limitation. The final work will begin next week and will be completed in mid-October. The delay between the triggering events and the work is linked to compliance with the various stages provided for by the Law on Public Procurement. Moreover, until 15 October, this work required the abolition of four IC+ direct trains ensuring the relationship between Brussels and Luxembourg and the limitation of two trains to the Brussels-Libramont route. For these last two trains, connections to Libramont from and to Arlon are possible in five minutes. Passengers who usually use the deleted IC+s can take conventional Brussels-Luxembourg IC trains. For Beauvallon, the planning planned and announced by Infrabel via the multiple channels, and in particular by the press, is followed. The current phase will end in May 2017. The next phase is scheduled to take place between June and November 2017. As a reminder, work on the 161 Namur-Brussels line began at the beginning of September. Infrabel will build a concrete box to protect the tracks from a major risk of collapse. This ten-month work in the first phase requires a single track for rail traffic over a distance of approximately six kilometres. Although SNCB and Infrabel have made every effort to minimize the impact on passengers, adaptations to train service are inevitable. Thus, four advanced trains are abolished between Namur and Brussels: P4606 from 06:09 and P8601 from 16:09, from Brussels-Midi, P7600 from 06:39 and P7602 from 07:39, from Namur. Alternatives exist for passengers via trains running less than 10 minutes before or after the trains are deleted, which limits the impact and inconvenience for customers. It should be noted that three omnibus trains running between Mont-Saint-Guibert, Blanmont-Chastre, Ernage and Namur are also limited to Rhisnes, where alternative buses run between Namur and Rhisnes. In both cases, studies were conducted to avoid overoccupation of trains. In addition to the usual communication channels (station posters and screens, brochures, website, Route Planner), SNCB wanted to inform schools in the regions concerned and municipalities, as well as the national and regional press, in two phases (end of June and beginning of September). With regard to the delays between Namur and Brussels, Infrabel gives us the following information. The punctuality of line 161, after the implementation of the Beauvallon yard, a single-track service on 161 between Rhisnes and Namur from 5 September 2016 until June 2017 was, week 36 (from 5 to 11 September), 90.4 and week 37, of 89.9. On the basis of these figures, Infrabel ensures that its forecasts of the delays caused by the various construction sites on lines 161 and 162 are realistic. Infrabel warns that it is incorrect to say that she has planned five minutes of delay between Ottignies and Brussels. Some work, including work on 161, involves an authorized speed reduction. The impact of these slowdowns was included in the timetable and amounts to three minutes for the Ottignies-Bruxelles Nord section.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u123	Thank you, Minister, for these points of answer. I may have been distracted, but I have not heard: has there been any compensation at any time, to prevent some commuters from suffering from a lower quality of comfort, given the abolition of trains? Perhaps this is not necessary. If things are handled and managed effectively, what more can you ask for? That this work does not last as long as those of the RER, perhaps...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-21-54-commissie-ic491x.u124	Questions Nos 13691 and 13692 by myself are converted into written questions.
