ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u1	Mr President, Minister, my question concerns the implementation of information exchange ICT. On 22 March 2016, the OECD announced that a standardised electronic format has been created to facilitate the exchange of debt securities that we have discussed so many times, in particular the country-by-country reports between the competent tax authorities. This will be done with an XML scheme. It is, of course, important for us to be able to respond quickly to this in order to obtain a complete overview of the way multinational companies structure themselves. We can get very interesting information about, among other things, assets, staff, turnover and profits before and after taxes. From 2018 onwards, this should be well operational. It is therefore important that things are properly prepared. It will also be necessary to consider which formats are already in use if we want to make a success in the framework of CRS and the project's assistance directive. We also need to look at the way in which the formats are developed at European level. However, it would also be good for the Belgian side to consider what can already be done, in order to ensure maximum compatibility, not only in order to be able to receive the data properly, but also in order to be able to communicate them properly. Hence the following questions. Can you tell me what the current state of implementation of ICT data exchange is? Does this implementation require additional budgets, manpower and assignments to meet all the listings and expectations of FATCA CRS and the Assistance Directive? Will we be able to get the timing? Is this timing a realistic timeline between today and 2018? Are there any obstacles? You could also take the opportunity to pour all other information into standardised formats, which would, of course, be very enriching for the government and the tax authorities concerned. It is also important that we choose a good standard and a good format. Those are exercises that can only be shot once. When everything should be reprogrammed, the following question arises. What standard will we use for the three FATCA CRS and assistance guidelines if necessary? Or do you not think that is a matter for Belgium, because Europe will impose something very binding on it? What can we do with that? Do we simply have to wait or can we make a policy of it, in order to develop tough, good standards for maximum data exchange?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u2	Mr President, Mr Deseyn, the implementation of the exchange of data under FATCA, CRS and the Assistance Directive is fully planned for the ICT part. The planning has been drawn up in such a way that the administration will have completed its implementation in good time. The administration has fully aligned itself with the use of the standardised electronic formats. So that's perfectly on course. The same structure shall be used as far as possible only for the identification data of the taxable person in the different XML debt instruments. For the other data, the structure is different because it concerns other types of information. Where possible, the same XML is used. For example, for the CRS implemented in the Assistance Directive, the same XML is used for both EU and non-EU countries. The operational development of country-by-country reporting within Europe remains to be discussed. In the negotiation of the draft text of the Directive, as in the case of CRS, it has already been indicated that the exchange will as far as possible be aligned with the work of the OECD. Given the different formats used in a different context, no conflicts are expected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u3	Mr. Secretary, it's looking good. We're well prepared. My questions are perfectly justified. I occasionally take stock of what is going on at the FPS Finance and I regularly hear complaints about intranet delays, system failure and slow loading of data. That's an old very dating from long before your time. I remember a working visit where I saw that half an hour had to wait to receive a simple e-mail. It seems that the situation has not been fully resolved. The government must commit itself to this. It is very important that Belgium can provide effective data in 2016. Hopefully, the projects will have a positive effect. It remains a call for ICT in general. A great deal is rightly expected from the FPS Finance, but we have to admit that there is still a great deal of work to be done in terms of equipment, equipment, connections and training.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u4	Mr Minister, it concerns the drafting of the Law of 16 December 2015 which has transposed several legal instruments governing the automatic exchange of financial accounts, including the obligation to identify all possible persons and accounts with financial institutions first and then to identify which ones to report, and according to which procedures this should be done. They must therefore first identify all potential reportable persons and accounts. In practice, each potential customer is registered with the demand for additional information. The Privacy Commission specifically asked that each taxpayer should have the opportunity to check this information and, where appropriate, to adapt it to incorrect documents. The law itself also requires all financial institutions to obtain the necessary information from their customers. There are financial institutions that interpret these obligations in their own way. When writing, they immediately point out the obligation to report in conjunction with the insinuation that one can escape from this by buying off the contracts and relocating the money to the home state. In a purely domestic situation, this would mean that Belgian customers could get rid of the reporting by purchasing the contracts abroad, by closing the accounts and returning everything to Belgium where there is still an internal banking secret. We have already had a debate here on internal banking secrecy. But, apart from that, can the Minister tell me to what extent the administration detects such cases and possibly goes after them? Isn't this one of the priorities? Are such practices punishable? Could we call it an evasion agent? Is there a provision or a circular that recommends prosecution? If that is the case, what sanctions are involved? Are there any other special sanctions with new legislative initiatives? The latter is perhaps a subject for our other special committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u5	Mr President, Mr Deseyn, a customer of a financial institution cannot escape the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts by closing the accounts he holds. The standard for the automatic exchange of information and Belgian legislation provide that the closure of an account must be reported to the customer's residence state. This is contained in the Law of 16 December 2015. On the basis of the future analysis of the functioning of automatic exchange and subsequent controls, which will, of course, be carried out within the financial institutions, it will be decided whether or not legislative changes are required. Since it is a global standard, this analysis of the results will have to be carried out with the partner states and within the competent authorities. I am thinking primarily of the European Union and the OECD.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u6	Mr President, I would just like to say that I am already pleased that the Minister is considering any changes to the law. This indicates an intention to tighten the net even more, should this be appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u7	Minister, it would be interesting if we could have an app for tax returns, which, of course, must have a well visual and graphically designed app adapted to the Belgian tax return with its many possible codes. I refer to examples in our neighbouring countries, particularly the Netherlands, which are sometimes cited by the government as a guide country for certain procedures. There is an application that allows you to fill out your tax return with a smartphone. In the case of a simplified declaration, which already contains a lot of information by the tax authorities, it is almost possible to confirm the declaration with one click and fulfil its tax obligations. Today an app or at least a very user-friendly interface is expected for everything, which means that we build some mobility into the story. Is the FPS Finance working on such a smartphone application? We have already come a long way along the path of simplified automatic declarations. If not, will the FPS Finance develop such application?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u8	Mr Deseyn, tax-on-web initiatives have already been taken this year to enable the use of tablets and smartphones. The existing application has been modified to make them as user-friendly as possible for tablet use and smartphone use. At present, however, all this is still relatively limited. A real tax return app is not yet foreseen. The possibility to create an app specifically for filling out the tax return via the smartphone was the subject of an initial analysis by the FOD during 2015. Such an app, which needs to be developed for the various operating systems such as Windows, Android, IOS, indeed requires a completely different approach than we have today with tax-on-web. A successful application requires, among other things, a user-friendly interface. Given the complexity of the paper tax return, this will lead to a very complex implementation of the app. The development and maintenance of such a specific app also involves a significant cost. In this context, the provision of such an effective application will not be possible in the short term, but rather in the medium term. The administration has provided for an in-depth examination of the adjustment possibilities, taking into account the budgetary and technical resources available, and to carry out a far-reaching evaluation of a useful and rational implementation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u9	I'm glad people are thinking. Navigation is vitally important and should not just be on the screen magically what one can already see through classical systems. We have already discussed pop-ups and instructions that may or may not be given. Such an app should add value to the understanding and reading of a tax return, including for those who are not working on it on a daily basis. That would be a real added value. I hope that the services will be able to deal with this as quickly as possible. If that happens, the app should really be innovative and very user-friendly, bearing in mind the pedagogical aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u10	Mr President, Minister, the restructuring of the finance services is proceeding on the basis of information circulating within the tax administration itself, and this is beginning to date since the issue was tabled some time ago. The administrative city of Vielsalm is condemned to disappear. Its disappearance would even be scheduled according to the following plan (some dates are already exceeded): April 1, 2016: Registration closed; June 1, 2016: Cadastre closed; July 1, 2016: direct contributions and VAT closed; December 31, 2016 at the latest: closure of the SME centre. Once again, the public service will be dismantled in rural areas and today is really a day when we talk about it a lot. This restructuring does not seem to take into account the services that must be provided to citizens at all. The concern is really great that the Salmian administrative city will disappear in the coming months. The offices close one after the other. The Salmians are really worried. In the long run, they fear the closure of all services. They must now go to Marche-en-Famenne to register a lease, a donation or a certificate of inheritance. Delocalization involves the displacement of some 30 jobs but also the obligation for Salmians to travel to cities with difficult access. We need to know that there are 55 kilometers that distracts these two cities. For some, this is difficult, if not impossible, on public transport. The situation of public transport in rural areas is known. However, the population needs to be able to feed on contacts with the Ministry of Finance. Contact with individuals must remain in departments. To solve a lot of problems, proximity is really necessary. New technological tools do not regulate everything and are far from accessible to all. Here too, rural areas are somewhat penalized. In addition, in Vielsalm, the FPS Finance building is recent and in perfect condition. It still belongs to the federal government. Minister, how do you intend to ensure accessibility and quality of service to the public? Will solutions be put in place to ensure the transition and try to limit inconvenience? Should we really fear a total closure of the administrative city in Vielsalm?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u11	Mr President, Mrs Poncelet, the timetable for the closures you are announcing is unfortunately not entirely correct. Contributions (Individual Administration) and Registration (Legal Security Administration) services will be closed in July and October 2016, respectively. These closures are the result of the 2015 infrastructure plan and have been announced for quite a long time. They are carried out as part of the Finance FPS 3 changeover. The VAT service becomes an SME service in Vielsalm 3 and its future is assured until 2018 but not beyond. The team controls the Namur SME centre temporarily remains in Vielsalm buildings. The services of the Cadastre (the Measurements and Evaluations Administration) will remain in Vielsalm until 2018. There is indeed a significant underoccupation of public buildings in the province of Luxembourg, but this is not the only reason to close a building or move a service. The FPS Finance infrastructure plans provide for the functional consolidation of various FPS Finance services into increasingly larger entities but in a limited number of locations. In this way, the administration wants to improve the delivery of services to citizens, reduce its operating costs and be a better employer for its employees, knowing that since 2004, the FPS Finance has had to work with a 28 per cent reduction in staff. The buildings to be closed are selected on the basis of objective criteria. The latter must lead to an optimal choice of location, both for the citizen, the collaborators and for the organisation as such. At the request of the municipalities, it may be considered to organise a permanence, for example once a week, or more frequently during the Tax-on-web period. Successive plans are dynamic and are constantly modified, corrected or amended to meet the needs and opportunities that arise. The size of the FPS Finance requires flexible management of the housing stock. This implies that staff members must be assigned to another residence. It is in the intentions of the SPF Finances to abandon the administrative city of Vielsalm at the end of 2018. In the event that a service moves, the personnel follow the service and no one is dismissed. The state-owned Vielsalm building will be handed over to the Régie des Bâtiments, which will either make it available to another federal SPF, or rent it to another regional or communal public service, or rent it to a private company, or put it on sale.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u12	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Indeed, it is not because a building is underoccupied that it must be moved along with its staff. I am reassured about the staff who will not be fired but will be relocated. I will see with the municipality of Vielsalm and the neighbouring communes what arrangements they could put in place to ensure that there is, as you suggest, a permanence. However, I remain disappointed that relocations are taking place and that there is no longer any proximity to the citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u13	Minister, last week the five largest economies of the European Union, the so-called European G5, in particular Germany, France, Great Britain, Italy and Spain, united to tackle letterbox companies. They will therefore exchange data on tax structures abroad. Cooperation is to a large extent also a response to the Panama Papers, which will also be addressed by our own special committee. Will Belgium join this project? Will you contact your colleagues from the European G5? What steps have you taken to achieve this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u14	The initiative of the European G5 fits in with the revelations of screen companies, letterbox companies and so on, in short, the Panama Papers. The Fourth EU Anti-Money Laundering Directive, which enters into force on 1 July 2017, already obliges European Member States to create an Ultimate Beneficial Owners Register or UBO Registry. That register clearly indicates the real owners of the companies and legal structures, including trusts. The OECD Common Reporting Standard requires countries to make the information from the UBO register available to tax authorities, which should be able to exchange this information if a partner country so requests. The pilot project of the European G5 builds on this. This information could indeed be particularly useful for the enforcement of Belgian tax legislation, in particular with regard to the recently introduced caaiman tax. The automatic exchange ensures a better view of the legal entities and constructions in tax havens. This alone will have an important deterrent effect. Until the Ecofin Summit of 23 April 2016, 24 of the 28 EU Member States had joined the G5 initiative, including Belgium. I can inform you that at the meeting in Amsterdam, the four remaining countries, Hungary, Poland, Denmark and Luxembourg, also joined this G5 initiative. So the club is complete, if I may put it that way. The recent G20 Finance Ministers summit also discussed transparency and Beneficial ownership. A communiqué states that, at the earliest, by October of this year, concrete implementation measures will be put in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u15	What do you think of that good news, Mr Vanvelthoven?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u16	Mr President, we naturally expect the government to take the lead in the fight against international fraud. If, shortly after the G5 initiative and following what has already been agreed internationally, this government has entered into that G5 initiative, then I can only welcome it, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u17	Mr President, Minister, for building and operating service flats, a number of municipalities and OCMWFs have worked together with companies with a social purpose. Such agreements helped to build facilities without the authorities concerned having to finance directly. The increase in the withholding tax to 27% also applies to dividends on shares of these companies for a social purpose. This brings with it an extra cost that was not foreseen when entering into the contracts. Moreover, it is a cost that many administrations now have to pass on to the residents of these service flats. Minister, I would have liked to hear the following from you. Are you aware of this problem? Measures are often taken which have a number of side effects which have not been included in the scope of the new proposals. Are there any figures available on the average impact that the increase has had on the daily prices of the service flats? Have you planned consultations on this issue? I am thinking of bodies such as the Flemish Government and the Association of Flemish Cities and Municipalities. If so, what has been the result of this? Do you intend to take any other policy initiatives on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u18	Mr President, Minister, I will not repeat what Mr Vanvelthoven has already said. My question is also about the potentially unintended effect of increasing the withholding tax on care facilities. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last year, as part of the tax shift, the government decided to increase the withholding tax and to abolish as many exceptions as possible. For more information on the specific background to this problem, please refer to the companies themselves, as this relates to the very nature of the statutes of these companies. One of the questions referred to a particular company. Whether or not to pass on the extra cost to the residents of service flats is an autonomous decision of the OCMWFs and is therefore certainly not an automatism. So far, we have not been contacted directly by OCMWS or the VVSG, but by a dozen individual municipalities that have addressed us. We have replied to these congregations. We are, of course, prepared to discuss this issue with all those concerned in order to see how it can best be followed up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u20	Mr Minister, I understand that you are aware of the problem, but you think that it is not really your problem and that the companies involved should solve it. It is a problem that manifests itself in many municipalities. I also understand that you have been addressed from different angles. The question is simple, namely whether there is a willingness to find a solution to this social problem of a group of people for whom it is not obvious to pay more. You say that you are willing to engage in a discussion, but it might be good to take an initiative of your own and send a message from the federal government that this issue is also close to the government's heart. So I am actually expecting a proposal or an initiative from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u21	Minister, I have noted that there is a certain openness to enter into the conversation. However, I think it would be interesting if there were a consultation, for example with the VVSG. It is also the VVSG that has written to the local authorities to highlight this problem. The problem facing a number of OCMWFs is that at the time they invested in them from a certain framework. However, if one had to pass that on as a public centre, the price would be too high and one could be left empty in those flats. I believe that the measure may have had other intentions than to target this category. It might be interesting to consult with the VVSG on this issue and to consider what might be possible for this small target group. I will certainly give them that message, that we have noted a certain degree of openness here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u22	(...) The oldest dates from 18 April. So it's all very recent. It's eleven so far. I can get you the list if you want.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u23	In the past, the Constitutional Court has repeatedly had to rule on the taxableness of compensation paid under statutory or ordinary insurance income. In order to achieve taxable value, the logic is that there is a link with the professional activity and thus the allowances offset a loss of income or the premiums were deducted from the insurance. The income guaranteed under the individual policy, in which the recipient of the benefits has not suffered any loss of income, is not taxable under a judgment of the Constitutional Court of October 2001, in so far as the contributions were not deducted as professional costs. The question of taxable capacity arises when we are aiming at the opposite situation. Are the benefits covered by an individual policy guaranteed income in which they compensate the recipient of the benefits for a temporary or permanent loss of income, taxable if in one case the contributions were deducted tax as professional costs, or in the other case the contributions were not deducted fiscally as professional costs? Is there a difference in treatment depending on whether the individual insurance was taken out by a manager or an employee?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u24	I would just like to clarify that the tax system for benefits resulting from an individual insurance contract is determined mainly on the basis of the purpose of that insurance contract. Where income guaranteed by the individual insurance is intended to compensate for a loss of income in whole or in part, the benefits resulting therefrom shall always be taxable, irrespective of whether or not the premium was deducted as a professional cost and the insurance was taken out by and for a manager or an employee. However, where the purpose of the individual insurance is to compensate for a physiological and/or economic disability without seeking to compensate for a loss of income, the benefits resulting therefrom are not taxable. The contributions of such insurances are therefore, logically, not deductible as professional costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u25	Thank you for the clarification. There is little doubt that, when a premium is deductible, income is taxable. But there were signs that it is unclear for those who have taken extra insurance with money they have earned and who are already in charge of it, and subsequently receive benefits thanks to insurance. It must then establish that the benefit is taxable. I understand the law is clear, but it's hard to get that explained to the person concerned. Therefore, it is not a bad idea to look at the different possibilities. After all, many insurance benefits are not taxable, I am thinking of compensation under car or fire insurance, among other things. The principle is sometimes treated in the same way by the consumer. In order to avoid that confusion, it is good to take a closer look at it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u26	Minister, for many months now, the passages to alert levels 3 or even in certain circumstances and in certain places has raised legitimate concern among many citizens, particularly those who live or work in Brussels. This concern has, of course, increased since the 22 March attacks. It comes to my mind that, in this context of tension, there is a real sense of insecurity within the FPS Finances, whether the officers are in the administrative buildings or are carrying out missions outside. The support of the "secretariat and logistics" management service is sometimes requested without being granted. This refusal can be explained to the extent that this service does not have the role of an orderly service. But alternatives must be found, so that the agents can work in serenity. Can you tell me what are the difficulties encountered by your administration officials in terms of security in carrying out their tasks in this context of high threat, particularly in Brussels? Have you received any testimony in this regard? Have any reports been solicited? What measures are being taken to relieve the workers concerned and ensure their safety? Do you consider that the framework of staff responsible for ensuring the security of administrations and agents is sufficiently provided? Have there been any discussions with workers' representatives in this regard? What adjustments have been made or are they envisaged for the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u27	Mr Gilkinet, while it is true that some officers have a certain apprehension of going to work or checking, particularly in Brussels, the FPS Finances has not identified any particular security difficulties since 22 March. Following the attacks in Paris, the steering committee had already approved security measures to be taken according to the level of the threat. A thorough check of the evacuation routes for the buildings in Brussels and Antwerp was carried out last week. The same operation will be launched in the next few days for all buildings occupied by the department. Measures taken to relieve workers include the use of additional private guarding in certain duly identified buildings. The closure of certain accesses is also one of the examples taken and to be taken. An automated statement allows employees to report online attacks or threats against them by persons outside the department. Since the 22 March attacks, five statements of threats have been recorded, two of them serious. One of these cases was reported to the judicial authorities in the light of a possible radicalisation of the perpetrator. Your third question pointed to the lack of a framework for security personnel. In some buildings, such as the North Galaxy or the Finance Tower in Brussels, there is a system of private guarding sufficient to ensure the safety of agents and citizens in normal times. This is also the case in Liège and Antwerp. The fourth question dealt with the CIC (Intermediate Committee for Personal Concertation) which met on Tuesday, April 12. A 'PPT' CIC, on security, will be held on Thursday, 28 April. Finally, with regard to any adjustments envisaged, among the additional measures to be taken is the use of private guarding during the Tax-on-web period in a dozen buildings which did not previously benefit from this service.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u28	Minister, thank you. As much as it is necessary not to fall into psychosis, so much in the short term, the measures are necessary. It seems to me that the ones you say are in the right direction. It should also include the question of not leaving officers alone in the field when they have to go into control. I encourage you to continue the dialogue with workers' representatives to take better action.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u29	Mr President, Minister, I would like to go back to the effectiveness of tax controls, which I have already had the opportunity to raise in previous questions. It seems to me that the problem is still not solved and that it is getting worse. It is the increased computerization of the FPS Finances, coupled with the reduction of staff, that asks me. I refer to previous statements that you have made. On January 6, 2015, you said: "Each drop in staff results in a decrease in control capacity. Recently, a monitoring system has been put in place to ensure, inter alia, a positive evolution of the results of central selection and the rapid interruption of actions which proved to be too unproductive." A little later, on 30 June 2015, you said: "The Tax Department has, so far, made many efforts to improve its efficiency and effectiveness in order to preserve its tax collection capabilities." Minister, if we look at the figures in the 2014 annual report, we see that the number of controls is decreasing from year to year and that their effectiveness is also decreasing. What surprises us is the continuing decrease in controls based on local selection, whereas these are more effective if the number of modified declarations is taken as an indicator of effectiveness. For example, the number of PPI controls based on local selection increased from 18,426 in 2012 to 14,001 in 2014. At the same time, their efficiency increased from 79% in 2012 to 82.49% in 2014 and the increases by modified declaration increased from 10,800 euros to 12,700 euros. These are the figures for the checks carried out on the basis of a local selection. For centrally selected files, the number of checks increased from 171,169 in 2012 to 77,459 in 2014 and their efficiency decreased from 56 % in 2012 to 54 % in 2014, while the increases by modified declaration decreased from €10,491 to €7,916. Between 2012 and 2014, the number of PPI controls is decreasing and at the same time, the proportion of computerised central selection controls remains predominant, while their effectiveness is decreasing. Minister, is the trend between 2012 and 2014 confirmed in 2015? Has the follow-up mechanism you mentioned in June 2015 been put in place and worked? What actions have been taken to resolve the problem I raise? Do you not think that a limit has been reached in terms of staff reduction?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u30	Mr President, Mr Dispa, as far as your first question is concerned, the data requested is in a table which I will give you. The trend observed between 2012 and 2014 is not fully confirmed in 2015. The percentage of modified returns for local selection has decreased and goes hand in hand with a slight decrease in the average income increase per modified return. For the central selection, the percentage of amended returns and the average amount of the income increase per amended return show an increase. It should be noted that for 2015, the proportion of locally selected files was revised upwards from 2014 from 15 to 25 per cent. Local selection remains generally more efficient than central selection, but it must be taken into account that this method of selection involves a much smaller number of files. Moreover, the situation should not be examined solely from the point of view of the productivity of controls. In fact, central selection is based on objective criteria and, as a result, it allows more than local selection to ensure fair treatment of all taxpayers. As regards central selection, the general percentage is also affected by the fact that certain actions are maintained despite a lower correction rate. For some issues, such as the case of index checks, it is important to ensure that minimum risk coverage is maintained in order to keep the "compliance" in the taxpayer's head. On the other hand, a lower correction rate is not the only indicator since the average amount by rectification must also be taken into account. It should be noted that the rounded percentage of 58% of production files reached by central selection is particularly high when compared to 37% in the social sector. With regard to your second question, the monitoring system in place has made it possible to improve central selection. In 2015, 1,820 missions, all taxes, selected centrally, were cancelled as a result of an operational service signal. Then, three measures were taken by the tax authorities to better integrate local knowledge into central selections. First, since last year, groups of operational services experts have been involved in the development of some of these selections. Second, since the beginning of this year, a new application has allowed officers to propose the control of a taxpayer. This information is provided to central risk management services, which will be able to consolidate the information for the preparation of central selection lists. Third, in the course of this year, risk management will be carried out from the SME (small and medium-sized) and GE (large enterprises) administrations in order to obtain a better description of the characteristics specific to each group. Finally, with regard to the number of staff and the number of controls, it is not only necessary to stop at the number of officers, but also to consider the tasks performed within the Federal Public Service. Several initiatives have been taken in terms of automation and digitisation in order to unload staff. The reorganization of finance must be a means of achieving good results.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u31	Minister, I would like to thank you and your colleagues for the very comprehensiveness of your answer. I will take note with interest of the figures in the table that you agree to submit to me. As far as the last point of your answer is concerned, I very much agree with you that some automation and digitisation favours some productivity gains in terms of staff. Nevertheless, the number of officers remains an indispensable criterion for fulfilling the tasks of the FPS Finance under the best conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u32	Mr President, Minister, since 1 April, and I believe that everyone in Belgium knows this in view of the gesticulations, all vehicles of more than 3.5 tonnes running on Belgian territory are subject to a kilometric tax, except for the exceptions which are obviously foreseen as always. The calculation of this tax levied on certain roads will be carried out by a case, which has already caused a lot of problems, installed in vehicles, taking into account three criteria: the maximum permissible mass, the European emission standard and the type of toll road. The federated entities thus hope to earn 750 million euros in revenue. This kilometric tax will be partly or totally offset by tax for Belgian truckers. Indeed, the various federated entities are considering or have taken compensatory measures against this levy. One example is the abolition of the eurovignette or a change in the system of traffic taxes. In Wallonia, where discontent is grumbling, the Vice-President and Walloon Minister of Public Works also recalled that this collection is tax-deductible to corporate tax and, therefore, the amounts referred to are not net costs to businesses. That is how, Mr Minister, I would like to ask you, on this basis, the following question: will this new measure have a negative impact on the federal government's tax revenues? If so, have you ever been able to estimate the lack of revenue at your administration level?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u33	Mr President, Mr Scourneau, the kilometric tax introduced by the Regions, which came into force on 1 April, is actually deductible from corporate tax. In preparing the budget estimates, the administration relies on a forecast of the main economic variables made by the Federal Planning Office. Thus, for corporate tax, the administration is based on the expected evolution of corporate profits. This forecast incorporates, by hypothesis, the facts of measures already taken by the different levels of power. It is therefore clear that, in the case of kilometric taxes, this tax or the impact of this tax was included in the latest forecasts which were used during the budgetary control.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u34	Minister, I imagine you've cut the recipe, but how much?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u35	I can try to find the exact amount. It is certainly included in the Planning Office's forecasts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u36	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u37	Minister, following the so-called LuxLeaks scandal, the International Consortium of Research Journalists published a list of rulings delivered by Luxembourg. You stated at that time that these rulings would be examined by the Special Tax Inspectorate. You also stated that Luxembourg had transferred a number of rulings to the Belgian administration, although not on the basis of the rulings made public by that consortium of investigative journalists. In reply to my question of 31 March 2015, that is to say about a year ago, you replied that the BBI further investigated 5 Belgian companies on the basis of the rulings forwarded by Luxembourg. You didn't want to give me any more information at the time. I did not ask at that time, nor today, any details that might violate professional secrecy, but general statistics relating to the ongoing investigations. So I'm gonna insist on getting some clarity today. Mr Minister, is it correct to say that no investigation was initiated into the rulings made public by the consortium of investigative journalists involving Belgian companies? As regards the investigations initiated in response to the rulings provided by Luxembourg, in how many cases has an additional request for information been sent to the Luxembourg administration? In how many cases has a request for information been sent to the companies concerned? In how many cases has there been a place visit to Luxembourg? How many cases has the investigation been completed? How many cases does the BBI consider that a tax correction is necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u38	Mr Vanvelthoven, following the publication in the press in April 2013 of the list compiled by the International Consortium of Journalists of Research on the rulings concluded by the Luxembourg tax administration, I can confirm that the general administration of the BBI has carried out an analysis of the possible involvement of Belgian taxpayers in those rulings. The results of this analysis led in a number of cases to the initiation of new preliminary investigations. In other cases, this information was added to existing files. These investigations led to a total increase of EUR 7.6 million in the taxable base, on which EUR 2.7 million of income taxes were established. Following the same publications in the press, the International Relations Service of the General Administration of Taxation questioned the Luxembourg tax administration about the agreements it concluded involving Belgian taxpayers. On 5 February 2015, pursuant to this request, 13 rulings were received from Luxembourg. On these 13 rulings, the General Administration of the BBI initiated a preliminary investigation. This preliminary investigation showed that these rulings included members of groups of companies, including 8 Belgian companies, and that five companies were subject to further tax investigations. However, these investigations did not give rise to tax corrections because no Belgian tax impact could be established.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, to the extent that you have replied. I did ask a lot of other questions. I would like to insist, and I also address you, Mr President, that we should be able to carry out our parliamentary scrutiny. It is important for us to be able to receive general information from the Minister without us wanting to know about the dossiers ourselves. I would therefore urge you, Minister, to reply in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u40	Mr President, all these questions relate to the instruction, but they are different in substance. If the Minister has prepared separate questions, I'd prefer to ask them separately.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u41	These questions have been merged.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u42	I shall begin with the first question, the handling of pending dossiers. Mr Minister, the BBI's instruction regarding the valuation of unlisted income has since been destroyed, as you know, by the Council of State. In our view, that is not without consequences. On 20 January 2016, we had a little debate in this committee after the hearing officer's report had been announced to the Council of State. You made a number of statements at the time, but they were not always clear. You said: "I have instructed my administration, the ISI, no longer to process new files on the basis of this internal instruction." I would have liked you to clarify that. Firstly, on what date have you been informed of the content of the report of the Council of State auditor? Secondly, on what date did you order the BBI to stop handling new files on the basis of the instruction? Thirdly, what exactly do you mean by 'no new files'? Were the files that had already been submitted but not yet completed on the date of the said order still being dealt with on the basis of the instruction? How many of those files had not yet been handled on the date of the destruction of the instruction by the Council of State? What will happen to those files?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u43	Mr Vanvelthoven, may I take your three questions together? They deal with the same matter and they're more or less the same questions. Question No 10972 is indeed of a different nature.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u44	Mr Minister, the question I have just asked concerns the handling of pending dossiers, the last question concerns the files that have been dealt with. For me, that is a distinction, but if you have prepared a joint answer, I will now add the third question and you can answer it together. [[With regard to the dossiers that have been dealt with, you said at the committee meeting to which I referred that 384 dossiers have been dealt with.]] You then stated that the basis of the attacks was copied, not based on the instruction but on the tax codes. I have the feeling that this is being avoided. In my view, it is clear that these dossiers have been dealt with on the basis of the instruction and the directives on the sanctions to be applied. What else did the instruction serve if it wasn't necessary? You yourself stated that the instruction was given in order to ensure uniform handling. Since the instruction is not in line with the regulations, that is what the Council of State says. The files, or some of them in our opinion, are not supported by tax legislation. It goes without saying that, of course, those concerned will not ask for their own correction. The administration must carry out that correction, in order to arrive at an assessment that corresponds to the sanctions provided for in our tax legislation, thus itself. There is no longer any discussion on the tax base after the Council of State ruling. In this context, therefore, I would like to repeat the questions that were asked earlier and to which you did not reply because there was still a short period of time. Minister, what instructions have you given to your administration in connection with the correction, after the destruction of the instruction? In how many of the files handled is there a non-justified initial balance that was valued? How many cases did a bank investigation take place? In how many cases was the CAP questioned? With regard to the judicial procedure, I have further questions. How many of the files handled have there been una-via consultation? In how many cases has the prosecutor confirmed in writing that there would be no prosecution? In how many cases, and in what way, has the court also confirmed that there would be no prosecution?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u45	Mr President, on 6 January 2016, I took note of the content of the Council of State auditor's report on the instruction concerning the valuation of non-temporary income, dated 29 January 2015. On January 14, 2016, I ordered the BBI to stop handling new files on the basis of the aforementioned instruction. For the sake of legal certainty and the trust generated by the taxpayer, I have decided that files submitted to the BBI will continue to be handled in accordance with the provisions of the instruction before 6 January 2016. Documents on spontaneous corrections submitted after 6 January 2016 and for which no notification of receipt has yet been sent have not been adopted under the provisions of the above-mentioned instruction. The decision of the Council of State of 12 April this year destroyed the instruction in question. Regarding the number of files received, processed and outstanding, I can provide the following data on the basis of the available statistics. The situation on 19 January is as follows: The number of files received is 1 724. There are 436 handled files. There are 1 288 files still open. A dossier remains statistically catalogued as open until the administrative phase of the file is fully completed, even though the tax investigation has already been completed. That's how I get to your last four questions. First of all, your question about the assignment. The BBI's instruction of 29 January on the treatment of spontaneous corrections intended to prevent shopping between the different tax authorities was, as already indicated, destroyed by the Council of State on 12 April. As I said earlier, on 14 January I decided not to add any new files. As the BBI instruction has been destroyed, the control services are no longer obliged to follow the guidelines contained therein for the files currently under examination. The administration will, as always, have to respect the provisions of the tax codes when it comes to the collection of the attacks. More specifically for the files of spontaneous corrections, the administration will fall back on the instruction AA Fisc No. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Secondly, as previously mentioned, detailed information on the nature of the valuations has not been systematically reported and cannot be supplied automatically via the existing computer system. Thirdly, the number of bank investigations carried out is nil. The number of CAP consultations is eight. Fourthly, as far as your question on court proceedings is concerned, the practice shows that, for the sake of its autonomy, each court has its own interpretation of the formalities to be followed in relation to una-via consultation. On the basis of the information currently available, no unambiguous answer can be given to your fourth question. However, in order to optimise the methodology and to streamline the procedure as much as possible, the BBI, together with the Public Prosecutor's Office, will organise a strategic seminar on 10 May next entitled "Fiscus and Public Prosecutor's Office's Office, partners in the fight against tax fraud'. All major players from the police, judicial and administrative world will be present.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. I have two reservations. If I understand correctly, of the total number of files submitted, 1 288 are open. They will be assessed by the tax administration on the basis of pre-destruction instruction. I am slightly surprised that the various parquets give their own interpretation of the una-via law to be agreed with the tax authorities. A seminary will try to draw a line there anyway. That is good and absolutely important.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u47	After budgetary control, Minister, we know that you have included EUR 65 million in the revenue. They must come from the fight against fraud, in addition to the EUR 150 million already provided for in the fight against fraud. You mentioned earlier in Parliament that the EUR 65 million should come from measures taken after the Panama Papers, which are linked to the extra fight against tax fraud following the disclosures in the Panama Papers. You have also said that the EUR 65 million should be used to increase the number of staff available to the public prosecutors, to look at electronic data and for a more powerful caiman tax, by increasing the fines on non-declaration, etc. So you yourself, in previous discussions here in the committee, linked the Cayman tax to the additional measures for the EUR 65 million. We know that for the Cayman tax a serious amount has been included in the revenue this year, namely EUR 460 million. There will therefore have to be some improvement in order to be able to achieve all these revenues effectively. In plenary, following a topical debate a few weeks ago, you stated that the Cayman tax could also work for the various offshore structures but for the revenue from 2015 and that for the past tax regularisation might be the most appropriate way to respond to similar constructions, in line with the Panama Papers. For all these reasons, I would like to ask you a number of questions, which should allow us to check whether the proposed revenue from the caiman tax, for budgetary control, is actually feasible. Where are we today, after the first quarter of 2016? Can we in one way or another assess whether the proposed revenue is realistic? Is getting that EUR 65 million extra in resources and revenue from tax fraud realistic? My first question is twofold. First of all, can you tell me how much the Cayman tax has paid so far? Can you explain to what extent the EUR 460 million target will be effectively achieved? Secondly, can you clarify to what extent the current Cayman tax legislation can deal with the problems of the Panama Papers? Secondly, do you think that, in addition to increasing the fines for non-declaration, additional measures are needed to strengthen the Cayman tax? You yourself said that it might need to be strengthened, including in the area of transparency and anti-abuse. Thirdly, can you tell us whether, in addition to the Panamanian measures already announced, there have been eight provisional proposals for other measures which are currently being prepared, but on which no agreement has yet been reached? If so, which one? Finally, what timing do you foresee to turn your fraud plan into legislation, excluding the measures that are now being taken on the Panama Papers and which come out of your fraud plan, so that the EUR 150 million already foreseen for this year can be effectively achieved?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u48	Mr President, Mrs Smaers, with regard to your first question, given the large number of codes in the declaration, no additional codes were added in the personal tax declaration and in the legal person tax for the separate declaration of revenue from legal arrangements. This income is therefore shown, as the case may be, in the business of movable, immovable or miscellaneous income. With regard to the second part of your first question, I can say the following. Since the possibility of taxation depends to a large extent on the extent to which the legal arrangements and revenues are identified or can be outdated, the emphasis is placed on more efficient and comprehensive data exchange and on increased sanctions for non-declaration. For example, reference can already be made to the extension of the reporting obligation introduced by the Tax Shift Act of 26 December 2015. In addition, a total of 12 additional measures were taken under the Panama Papers. The new measures include, for example, the extension of access to the Central Contact Point and the reporting obligation for financial institutions. As far as the Cayman tax is concerned, there is also an increase in sanctions for non-declaration. All of this should encourage taxable persons to effectively declare their constructions and, in the case of non-declaration, provide the necessary means to verify the identity of the constructions and taxable persons and to apply the necessary sanctions. With regard to your second set of questions, I would like to stress that the viewing tax is indeed relevant to the burden on these structures and not just for the future. Indeed, the viewing tax allows in the first instance to tax all future income from legal constructions in Belgium. However, the tax goes beyond that. Moreover, the dissolution of an existing legal arrangement or the total or partial transfer of its assets means that all reserves accumulated in the legal arrangement which have not yet been subject to their tax regime in Belgium under the founder or beneficiary of the arrangement will be subject to the withholding tax of 27%. This therefore allows to tax income from these constructions obtained in the past and collected. Income. Only the capital injection will not be taxed by the viewing tax. These should be the subject of regularisation in the case of black capital. However, what the viewing tax does not allow is to re-create income from a legal arrangement that was dissolved before the entry into force of this viewing tax. That makes sense. After all, a new tax cannot react retroactively to the facts that have been achieved. As regards the third question, I said in the Committee of 12 April 2016 that a task force consisting of experts from Finance and Justice will soon be set up, with the aim of monitoring the issue of tax structures and providing further policy options. It will be this task force which, if necessary, will propose new measures to the government. In the meantime, we will continue to introduce the measures already announced. Finally, your fourth question. The measures contained in the fraud plan put forward in the framework of the Panama Papers are included in the programme law which will shortly be submitted to the members of the committee. The remaining measures will, of course, be submitted to the Members for discussion later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u49	Minister, you deliberately or unwittingly did not answer my first question, namely whether the figures are being met and how much the caiman tax already paid in the first quarter of 2016. For the rest, you replied on the basis of the additional measures. We could read those answers before. We will have to wait for the task force, just like the special committee that will do its job within this committee and this Parliament. It will have to check whether this caiman tax is sufficiently secure and has sufficient body to be able to assess everything that is set up in offshore structures. However, I will stick to my first question. That's a big hole I can't see yet. Of the first quarter, it's gotta be...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u50	I'll let you know as soon as we get the first numbers. Moreover, you should not forget that this is in various categories, corporate tax, personal income tax, withholding tax. At least we'll have some reasonable work left to actually individualize that for the caiman tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u51	When will you have a first look at the first real income?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u52	I'm not gonna take that for granted. We're gonna start with a serious analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u53	Minister, you will agree with me that every effort must be made to try to recover the funds that are hidden in tax havens. The French Supervisory and Resolution Authority has just required banking and financial institutions to declare their activities in countries considered to be tax havens. More specifically, the Supervisory Authority has asked the banks, in the wake of the Panama Papers' revelations, to report further on the activities in these states. As the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists discloses information about a large number of Belgian residents, it would be logical and desirable for the government, via FSMA, to take the same approach towards the financial institutions installed on our soil. Minister, have you read about the French initiative? How do you look at this one? What are the obligations currently imposed on Belgian banks in terms of reporting their offshore activities in tax havens? Will Belgium undertake an approach similar to that initiated by the French prudential authority? If so, within what time frame and under what modalities? I think I've seen some initiatives last week. If that is the case, I am pleased that my question of April 8 prompted the government to act.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u54	Mr Gilkinet, first of all, I confirm that we are informed of the various initiatives taken by the supervisory authorities to obtain an overview of how banks are involved in the organisation of offshore activities for their customers. Second, banks operating in Belgium are not allowed to set up specific mechanisms which aim at or result in their customers failing to fulfil their tax obligations or to encourage fraud. As a result, they cannot advise their clients or provide services such as building in tax havens. Finally, the National Bank is taking initiatives comparable to those of the other supervisory authorities, in particular with a view to verifying compliance with the above-mentioned provisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u55	Minister, what you're announcing is pure theory. The practice is very different. According to Panama Papers, several former Belgian banks, via subsidiaries in other countries, including Luxembourg, are actively advising some depositors to allow them to hide certain amounts in tax havens via offshore companies. It's now known to the public. You mustn't deny it! On the contrary, every effort must be made in terms of investigation - we will try to do so within the framework of the Panama Committee - to identify and combat this phenomenon. I hear that the BNB is taking initiatives comparable to those of the French supervisory authority - symmetry is not quite perfect today between the supervisory bodies of banks between Belgium and France - and I welcome this. But I will be especially pleased when it will bear fruit in terms of condemnation of certain practices and tax revenues that are now exempt from tax. I will not fail, therefore, to ask you again about the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u56	Mr. President, Minister, as part of its tax shift, the federal government has decided, on the grounds of public health, to increase the excise duty levied on the sale of alcoholic beverages. This measure entered into force on 1 November last. You initially expected an annual gain of EUR 220 million, or EUR 18.3 million more than the previous situation. However, the preparatory work for the budgetary conclave shows a significantly lower return: if we compare the figures of January 2015 and January 2016, communicated in particular via the Sudpresse Group's newspapers, the increase in revenue would be less than €600,000. This overestimation, whether voluntary or not, raises at least the question. Minister, can you tell me the amounts of excise duty on alcoholic beverages collected in the first three months of the year, to go beyond January? Can you send me these amounts for the months of January, February and March 2015? How do you explain the magnitude of the evolution between the first quarters of 2015 and 2016, which is less than the projected increase in excise duties? Can you share your analysis with respect to the circumvention and fraud practices that some resellers would engage in? What measures have been taken or are envisaged to avoid such behaviour? What do you get from it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u57	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, for the first three months of 2015, the amount of excise revenue on alcoholic beverages was, by rounding, $159.3 million. As the amount is not yet known for the month of March 2016, this figure amounts to $105.4 million for the first two months of 2016. I can give you details of the figures per month: in January 2015, we are talking, rounding again, of 46 million; in January 2016, we are talking 42 million. February 2015, 47.8 and February 2016, 63.5. We have to wait for the March data to be able to really compare. The fight against fraud in alcoholic beverages is an active priority area for the General Administration of Customs and Excise. It is also a priority at the moment and it will remain so in the future. At the national level, I refer you to the policy plan in which I outlined the strategic and operational priorities of the Customs and Excise Administration for the period 2015-2019. With regard to the measures taken in the fight against fraud in alcoholic beverages, I refer you to the customs policy plan 2015-2018. In 2015, the Investigations and Research Authority made the following contributions. In alcohol and spirits, EUR 563 000 on the basis of 33 findings, in beer, EUR 39.5 million on the basis of 18 findings and fruit fermented drinks, EUR 178 000 on the basis of 10 findings.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u58	Minister, thank you for your answers. For the first two months of the year, performance does not bring the expected additional revenues, but I do not think that it is necessary to draw too early conclusions. It can be estimated that there was an anticipation of the increase in excise duties and therefore purchases that were made at the end of 2015. Our concern is that the tax shift is actually financed, so as not to lead to an additional deficit of the State, and of social security in particular. The increase in excise duties is only one part of the financing, but we are paying attention to it. I will ask you again about these recipes in the coming months to see if the account is good or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u59	Minister, in 2013, the European Court of Justice condemned Belgium to review its legislation on savings books. It provided that only savings deposits with Belgian banks were entitled to an exemption from interest on movable pre-payments up to a ceiling of EUR 1 880 and to a reduced withholding tax on interest in excess of that amount. European justice considered this provision to be an infringement of the freedom to provide services and capital within the Union. In 2014, the Parliament adopted an amending law which provides that deposits made with foreign banks based in the European Union also qualify for a discount exemption provided that the conditions applicable to the booklets proposed by the Belgian banks are complied with. This new provision has also been challenged before the European Court of Justice, since it appears that a question has been referred to it for a preliminary ruling by the Court of First Instance of Bruges, which wishes to know whether the amended law infringes freedom of movement. It is also known that the European Commission considered, by the end of 2014, that the criteria laid down by the new law were such that, in the end, only income from Belgian regulated savings deposits can benefit from the exemption. According to the European executive, this restriction is not justified by a reason of general interest. Minister, can you confirm to me that a proceeding against the 2014 amending act has been initiated? When? Who is responsible for this? Can you tell me what the Commission's opinion is? Can you clarify to me the continuation of the proceedings before the Belgian and European courts? What is the timetable? How does the federal government intend to respond to this procedure? Under the current law, how many foreign banks have used the possibility of discount exemption? How many savers are involved? How many of these requests have been completed? If so, why could the law not be enforced? Which office of lawyers represents the Belgian State in this case? By what procedure was it chosen? How much is his fee? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u60	Mr Gilkinet, on 27 October 2014, the European Commission initiated a pre-infringement procedure against the law of 25 April 2014, considering that credit institutions located in other Member States of the European Economic Area were de facto excluded in Belgium from the benefit of the exemption from interest on a savings book. In general, the Commission acts as a result of a complaint. On 9 October 2015, it announced that it was not satisfied with the Belgian arguments. The next step in the procedure should be the sending of a letter of formal notice to Belgium. This infringement procedure was probably suspended by the Commission pending the judgment of the European Court of Justice in this case, which should be delivered within six to eighteen months. As a result of these procedures, the Belgian Government will determine to what extent Article 21.5 of the Income Tax Code 92 needs to be adapted in order to comply with European law. In these cases, the Belgian State is represented only by officials of the Federal Public Service Foreign Affairs and Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u61	Minister, thank you for these answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u62	Minister, in his report released on April 18, the Federal Ombudsman raised the issue of family taxation, which has been the subject of numerous complaints. More specifically, it notes the inadequacy of tax measures for dependent children with regard to direct taxation with new forms of family organization, and the increasing number of single-parent families or shared caretakers. In support of his comment on the development of Belgian families, the Ombudsman notes that between 2005 and 2013, the number of taxpayers practising fiscal co-parentality increased from 18,372 to 63,066 units, while the number of taxpayers who receive an exemption supplement for single parents with dependent children increased from 440,691 to 528,978 units. However, the granting of this exempted quota may give rise to situations of inequality between parents. First, in the case of the division of the tax-exempt quota for dependent children between parents who provide equal accommodation for their common children, parents may be subject to different tax treatment on the basis of the sole criterion for the registration of children in the National Register. In concrete terms, this means that in the case of recomposed families, only the household in which the child of a previous union resides will be able to benefit from the system of rank, and thus from increased tax relief for the following children. In addition, the automatic allocation, for legally married or co-resident taxpayers, of the child tax-exempt supplement to the spouse with the highest incomes may, in some situations, result in the loss of the dependent child tax benefit. Secondly, the allocation of the child tax-exempt supplement was initially provided for single taxpayers raising their children alone. However, it turns out that more and more isolated taxpayers forming a de facto household also benefit from this measure. It is a bit like family allowances, the evolution of family cores complicates things. Minister, have you read the section of the report of the Federal Ombudsman on family taxation? If so, what is your analysis? Do you confirm the shortcomings identified by the Ombudsman in terms of equality between parents who share custody of a child? What adjustments do you envisage in the scheme to address these difficulties? Would it not be useful to entrust to a working group, in conjunction with this Parliament, the preparation of proposals with a view to better taking into account the needs and developments of families from a fiscal point of view?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u63	Mr Gilkinet, I have indeed read the section of the report of the Federal Ombudsman on family taxation. With regard to family taxation, there are undoubtedly a number of imbalances which need to be examined in terms of the multiplicity of forms of life in society and the greater occupational mobility. A number of members of this Assembly have already made proposals to change the taxation of families. Currently, the FPS Finance Administration is examining a number of aspects to harmonize family taxation with changes in society.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u64	Minister, I can only encourage you and your administration to make this a priority. You have set up working groups to reflect on the future of Brussels as a financial centre. In the lives of more and more families, this is a very concrete problem, certainly difficult to solve given the multiplicity of situations, but the tax law must be able to adapt to this evolution and to this complexity of family relations. We will encourage any positive initiatives in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u65	Mr Minister, I asked your colleague Koen Geens this question, but it was forwarded to our committee. The government agreement states that the government will adopt a proactive policy to eliminate the problem of over-indebtedness. The data bank of the Centrale des crédits aux particuliers will thus be extended by the introduction of more types of unpaid credits in order to protect the entrepreneur but above all the consumer from over-indebtedness. In order to protect defaulting tenants from over-indebtedness, the government will allow the objective rental delay following the final conviction in justice of peace to be mentioned in the Centrale des crédits aux particuliers file. Minister, can you tell us where we are in the Central Bank? What steps can the National Union of Owners and Co-owners take to deal with the recourse of many owners? What is the status of this procedure? Is the Centrale des crédits aux particuliers file regularly updated?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u66	Mr Clarinval, the registration of rental debts is not currently part of the data falling under the law governing the registration by the Centrale of credit to individuals. I should point out to you that the legislation relating to the Centrale des appropriations aux particuliers falls under the competence of the Minister of Economy and Consumers. The latter initiated an ongoing exercise of reflection on the passage of the government agreement on the possible extension of the Central Office. Unfortunately, I have no further information to share with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u67	Minister, thank you. After speaking to your colleague Geens, I will therefore turn to your colleague Peeters for more information.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u68	Mr. Chair, Minister, this question was addressed to the Minister of Pensions, but it was referred back to you. In 2001, the Rainbow government created the Aging Fund (also known as the Silver Fund) to set aside money to fund the increased cost of aging. This fund was to be financed on a regular basis by the budgetary surpluses that had been released at a later date. However, since 2007, according to my information, this fund would no longer be fed because there are simply no more budgetary surpluses. According to the press, it seems that we are far from the 115 billion that we ideally had to reach by 2030 in order to cope with the baby boom retreats. Minister, what about the amounts currently available in this fund? How much is it worth today? What is the current budgetary use? Could it be removed so that the budgetary efforts to be made in the near future can be spread over time?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u69	Mr President, Mr Clarinval, the Ageing Fund places its reserves in accordance with the "Ageing Fund" Act of 2001 in securities issued by the Belgian State, specifically in Treasury bills "Ageing Fund". As at 31 March 2016, the reserves of the Ageing Fund, including accrued interest, amounted to €21.7 billion. The "Ageing Fund" Act stipulates that the Ageing Fund can only be used when the debt ratio is less than 60 per cent of GDP. The use of the reserves of the Ageing Fund for the financing of pension expenditure is therefore not on the agenda. At the budgetary level, it is important to bear in mind that the Ageing Fund is part of the government consolidation boundary as a public institution. As a result, after consolidation, the reserves of the Ageing Fund are deducted from the nominal debt of the State. With or without the Ageing Fund, therefore, the consolidated debt of the State remains exactly the same. A similar mechanism applies to future pension expenditure, regardless of whether the resources come from the fund or whether they are directly charged to the budget, the debt of the State will necessarily increase after consolidation. There is therefore no miracle solution to the financing of pensions. With or without the Ageing Fund, additional pension expenditure will have an impact on the budgetary balance and, consequently, on the evolution of the government's debt. The sustainability of pensions can therefore only be guaranteed in the future by providing budgetary margins. The government has set itself the goal of keeping ageing costs under control through structural pension reforms aimed at increasing the participation rate. In addition, continuous budgetary discipline must ensure the necessary budgetary flexibility in order to be able to pay pensions in the future. Since the Ageing Fund had not achieved its original objective, including the allocation of large and growing budgetary surpluses at the additional cost of pensions resulting from the ageing of the population, the question arose whether it would be better to abolish the Ageing Fund. The possible abolition of the fund is currently being studied by the government and a decision on it should be taken as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u70	Mr President, this is an excellent answer and I thank the minister for making it so clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u71	I propose to turn to Question No 11058 by Mr Gilkinet on the creation of offshore companies in Panama by Dexia.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u72	Thank you, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u73	Having received your question yesterday, it was not possible for FSMA, the National Bank and the ISI to provide a complete answer. I think it is correct to say this before.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u74	My question is attached to questions that have been asked earlier. You have no answer to my questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u75	A comparable question was asked by Mr. Van Biesen on April 11. I can repeat the answer I gave at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u76	In that case, I will postpone my question by a week, hoping that you will then have the exact answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u77	So that question is postponed to next week?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u78	Agreed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u79	There's gonna be another problem. There is the Special Committee on International Tax Fraud/Panama Papers, on the one hand, and there are oral questions in the Finance Committee, on the other. We're not gonna ask the questions twice. We have to choose one of the two commissions. We are not going to ask all these questions to the minister as well, otherwise a special commission should not be established. We will postpone the matter until next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u80	We can talk about it again, Mr. President. There is a difference between hearing and drawing up recommendations in the Panama Committee, but there is no possibility of parliamentary scrutiny in this committee. Parliamentary scrutiny is carried out here, in the Finance Committee, through questions to the Minister, including on specific elements of the Panama issue. We can't ignore it while we're working in committee. And there is, in parallel, a long-term work in the Panama commission. I can see the difference between what I am going to ask as questions in the Panama committee and here. There are ad hoc questions that arise and deserve answers in relation to any investigations that may be under way. We will try to find a balance and not do the same twice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u81	Mr Gilkinet, we're on that special committee's desk together.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u82	We'll come to an agreement there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u83	I also told Mr Laaouej that we should be very clear about who is doing what, so that we do not do any duplication. A special committee has been chosen, with all the consequences. So the question has been postponed to next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u84	Minister, the Office for Maintenance Claims was set up by law of 21 February 2003 to solve problems relating to the non-payment of maintenance money for children. An evaluation committee was set up to produce an annual evaluation report and deliver it to you. You'll put it in your turn to the federal legislative chambers, so this house. The law of 12 May 2014, introduced since 1 August 2014, made the service more accessible by raising the wage limit to 1 800 euros. Recently, the Secretary of State for Combating Poverty also announced that an application can also be submitted digitally to the DAVO from the end of March, i.e. for several weeks. Nevertheless, it is not intended that taxpayers should finance maintenance money instead of parents. Moreover, paying maintenance money is a priority duty of every parent and non-payment is still included in our criminal law. Anyone who does not pay maintenance money for his or her children for more than two months is punishable. Hence the importance of the recovery, which the DAVO carries out with the creditors. By law of 12 May 2014, the instruments for this purpose were extended. The full income of the non-paying party can now be seized. Even the driving licence can be revoked in case of non-payment to the DAVO. I have the following questions for you, Minister. Firstly, on the DAVO website the latest evaluation report of 2010. In the response of February 2013 to a parliamentary question, your predecessor, among other things, asked the following. The report for the year 2011 is currently being printed and will then be handed over to the Minister. It is the Minister of Finance who submits the report to the legislative chambers. When was this report presented in 2011? Why can't these reports be consulted on the website? Secondly, since the creation of the maintenance fund in 2003 to 2012, 252 million euros in advances have been paid and only 6.9 million euros recovered. Can you give the global figures for the period up to 2015? I only found the figures until 2012. Thirdly, in the meantime, the law of 12 May 2014 has been in force for more than a year and a half. It is therefore the law that raises the wage threshold, so that more people are eligible to receive maintenance money through the DAVO. Is there any provision for an evaluation? What effect does raising the wage threshold have? What is the impact of the measure confiscating full income? What effect does the measure of the possible withdrawal of the driving licence in case of non-payment have? Then there is a very important matter. What about the recovery, for example in the last three years? Do you have any figures on this? Finally, how many full-time equivalents are employed today in the various departments of the DAVO?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u85	Minister, I have already addressed to you a series of questions that Mrs Lahaye-Battheu has asked. I wanted to take stock with you of the renewal of the evaluation committee. You said in March that he was imminent. This is the condition for having an activity report and for being able, then, to hear the officials of SECAL in committee, as we agreed. Mr Minister, have you received a reply from all the political groups and members of interest groups with a view to applying for the opinion committee? If not, who didn't answer? Did you restart the delayers? If so, have you been able to decide on the composition of the commission? When has the necessary order been made or will it be made? When can the commission be re-established?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u86	For your first question on the 2011 report, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, I can tell you that this was indeed printed and sent to the then Finance and Budget Ministers. My administration assumes that this report was not filed with the Legislative Chambers at the time, as it is not mentioned on the Chamber's website under "Supplementary Reports." Moreover, as a rule, the DAVO has adopted that a document intended for the Chamber should not be made public through its own channels until after it has been made available to the Chamber. The report for 2011 was the last since the term of office of the members of the evaluation committee had expired. The administration is preparing new nomination decisions. I'll come back to that in a minute. In response to your second question, the DAVO paid out 199 million euros as advances between October 2005 and December 2015. Of this, EUR 53.6 million was recovered. As regards your third question, the impact of the law of 12 May 2014 with some certainty relates to the number of children who can benefit from the advances and the amount of those advances paid. Compared to 2014, the number of beneficiary children increased by almost 15% and the total amount of advances paid by 11,55 %. Before the entry into force of the Act, the average rate of increase over the last five years in relation to the number of children was 4.5 % and of the total amount of advances paid was 6%. The impact of the other measures cannot be measured. I would also point out that the possibility of withdrawing the driving licence in a family abandonment procedure is a general measure which is not linked to the operation of the DAVO. In 2013, 2014 and 2015, 7.6 million, 8.5 million and 9.4 million were recovered respectively. This corresponds to 33.6 %, 36.2 % and 35.9 % of the amounts paid. However, these percentages should be applied with caution, since the amounts recovered are not necessarily linked to the advances paid in the year of payment of the advances. These may also be sums recovered in respect of advances paid in recent years. In response to your fourth question, 79.25 full-time equivalents work in the various DAVO cells. That corresponds to 88 physical persons. A number of employees who were previously employed by the DAVO now work in other services, but still carry out DAVO tasks in their new service. The increase in the number of files is mainly in the cities. An increase in the number of employees is not at issue for the time being because the General Administration of the Inning and the Recovery reorganizes its teams. Mr Gilkinet, the Ministerial Order on Councillors and the Royal Order on Civil Servants are being finalized within the Finance Administration. The first text is drawn up on the basis of the applications communicated to me by the MR, the CD&V, the N-VA, Ecolo-Groen and sp.a. and from the list sent by interest groups. As soon as these orders have been signed and published in the Belgian Moniteur, arrangements will be made to inform all new members of their appointment and to invite them to the first meeting of the committee, which will thus resume its work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u87	Thank you for your detailed reply, Minister. Personally, I find the situation worrying. The amounts are always increasing, but recovery is difficult. My message is that maintenance money must initially be paid by the parents, not by the state. I note on the ground that some people are going to DAVO very quickly and not exhausting all the existing resources to claim the money from the debtor. However, the legislator has given a number of additional resources in recent years. I'm thinking of the payroll delegation and reception authorization. The judge must now grant the reception authorization as soon as two months have not been paid. The maintenance fee is thus withheld from the source, from the employer or from the payout institution. That drug exists, but a lot of people don't use it. I will continue to follow up on this problem, because for many people, the maintenance money every month is a sum they really need to raise their children.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u88	Minister, thank you. You're saying the arrests are being finalized. I guess that means we can wait for them within 15 minutes. It would be interesting to send a copy to the secretariat of the Commission for distribution. SECAL is a service that needs to be further supported and developed as a universal service for separated families. Women are often called upon to do so. In this sense, it is a priority for us. I hope that we will be able to discuss it in this committee in order to identify the measures to be taken to further improve its effectiveness.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u89	Mr Minister, I asked you some time ago a written question which you answered in a rather laconic way. I would therefore like to ask an oral question so that you can give me more details on this matter. Thus, it turns out that the employment premiums and the SESAM premiums granted in particular by the Walloon Region would not be exempt from corporate tax. I denounced in my question this unfair situation through which the federal level takes over with one hand, with a tax of almost 34%, which the Region gives to the other. In your answer to this question, you indicated that "each of the competent authorities fulfilled its duty". Could you explain that strange phrase? Is it true that these premiums are not exempt from ISOC? If so, do you not find that tax is taken over by the public authorities in the form of a premium?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u90	Mr Clarinval, as I have already stated, only re-employment premiums and occupational transition premiums awarded by the Regions and authorised by EU state aid legislation are exempt from corporate tax. It is up to the Walloon Region to indicate whether the granting of SESAM aid is permitted under European legislation. If not, and in view of the current legislation, I have no room for manoeuvre to exempt these premiums from tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u91	Things are much clearer now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u92	Mr Minister, I was able to read in the press recently that the consequences of the increase in excise duties on certain alcoholic beverages are disastrous for traders and wholesalers in the country. According to the Vinum & Spiritus Federation, more and more Belgians will buy their alcohol abroad. I live in a border region and it has become the national sport to go buy alcohol in France because it is much more interesting. Of these new excise duties, the government expects additional tax revenues of EUR 15 million every month. Five months after the introduction of this measure, can you inform me of the results of the increase in excise duties on alcohol and on diesel and tobacco? Can you give me figures to see if the expected revenue is actually obtained and if the damage caused by purchases from border companies is not greater than the revenue?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u93	Mr Clarinval, I would like to make available to you the tables containing the figures which I am going to tell you about. These figures reflect the data available as at 15 April 2016 and cover the period from 1 November 2015, when the rates of the special excise duty on alcohol and alcoholic beverages were increased, as well as the introduction of the ratchet system and the early indexation of the rates of the special excise duty on diesel as at 29 February 2016. With regard to manufactured tobacco, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the increase in the specific excise duty rates on cigarettes and smoking tobacco and the minimum excise duties on these categories of products occurred on 1 January 2016 and not on 1 November 2015. In the initial preparation of the 2016 budget, excise duties on tobacco were not revised upwards, unlike excise duties on alcoholic beverages. The diesel ratchet system was already in operation on 1 November. The 2015 budgetary target for excise duties has been met. The figures for March 2016 are not yet available. I suggest that you put the paintings in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u94	I will examine these tables and the answer in detail. From what I can see on the ground, for alcohol, I have the impression that there is a significant loss of turnover for traders because consumers will be buying from the other side of the border. The level of excise duty is such that the interest in crossing the border is large enough to push for movement. I am very afraid that too many excise duties on these materials will kill the result of the excise duties. I will look at the figures with interest to see if this impression is verified in the figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u95	The numbers you have before you regarding alcoholic beverages do not validate the thesis you have made. We notice a fall in January, caused, I suppose, by anticipation behaviour, but in February the figures return to normal. We'll see about March and April.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u96	Questions Nos 10525 and 10665 by Mrs Van Cauter are deleted, as is Question No 5, by Mrs Van Cauter. Question No 108, by Mrs Jadin: Mr Van den Bergh. Question No 10616 by Mr Van Biesen, Question No 10634 by Mr Hedebouw and Question No 11058 by Mr Gilkinet Question No 10892, by Mr Calomne 10942 by Mr Deseyn. Mr Gilkinet, you have the floor for your question. 11054 on the tax structures of Ikea.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u97	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, on March 9th...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u98	Mr Gilkinet, this is again the same answer that I had to put on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u99	Okay, I'll postpone to next week. I hope you will then have an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u100	We received the question yesterday and it is important and complete.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u101	This is indeed an important issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u102	Mr. Chair, Minister, it appears that the STIPAD application used by the Heritage Documentation General Authority would face recurring operational problems. The latter are a major obstacle to the work of the agents. For example, a Cadastre officer detected 22 stops in the application between 19 and 28 January. In total, several tens of thousands of hours of work would thus be lost by the members of the General Administration Heritage Documentation due to these computer malfunctions. It is also a question of taking into account the increased stress that these incidents are likely to generate among staff interested in working effectively. Minister, do you confirm the increase in the number of STIPAD application failures? Can you tell me how many incidents have occurred in the last five years and in the first months of 2016? Have the causes of these problems been identified? What solutions does the FPS Finance intend to implement to address this problem? How long?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u103	Mr President, my colleague, the most important module of the STIPAD application was launched on 19 May 2015. The application suffered, like all the new programs, from the usual youth diseases during its implementation. In the meantime, the program has been stabilized and functionality has been improved. The STIPAD application produced since May 19, 2015 is continuously evaluated by users. This application is also continuously monitored by monitoring tools to maintain availability. The incidents encountered were related to general performance problems of computer systems because the STIPAD application is an integrated application that uses many source systems. These problems were also the result of bugs in the program that blocked folders and its features. The STIPAD application has been adapted and further adaptations are planned for future versions. In any case, it can therefore be said that the "maturity" of the programme has increased.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u104	Mr President, Minister, this is a recurring problem. I am very regularly alerted about the quality of applications, IT tools and internet connections of FPS Finance agents. I therefore encourage you to pay attention to this issue. Indeed, staff members who are put into technical unemployment continue to be paid without being able to carry out their work, resulting in a loss of money. In any case, this is a concrete example that I wanted to highlight, with the feeling that blind austerity will not help to make the tools in question more effective. We make savings that, paradoxically, cost money.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u105	Minister, this is a question that you did not answer on April 20th. It was included in the list of questions on the excess profit ruling and the use of a lawyer's office, which you informed me was the Clayton & Segura office. Minister, what is the cost of this intervention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u106	Mr Gilkinet, the public procurement for the appointment of a lawyer to defend the interests of the Belgian State in the context of its conviction by the European Commission for the system of excess profit ruling is a price voucher market. The Council of Ministers of 29 January 2016 agreed on an expenditure ceiling of €600,000 including VAT. To make things clear, let me point out that this does not mean that the bill will actually amount to €600,000 including VAT. The amount charged could be lower because the amount I'm talking about is a cap.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u107	Thank you for that answer. So this case is not lost for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u108	Mr Minister, free software is really important, both from an economic point of view and for data protection. Many taxpayers, whether natural persons, companies or legal entities, are now using these free software. I do. This is not only an economic and ethical concern, but also an objective of data protection. Unfortunately, in addition to a small number of those who dared to do so, the public authorities are making available tools that are not always compatible with these free software. This is the case with the Intervat application through which the VAT declaration must be completed. It seems impossible for the free software user to affix his electronic signature to the declaration in PDF format. Indeed, FPS Finance tools require the use of Adobe Acrobat or Microsoft Explorer software, paying software. This obviously poses practical difficulties for users of free software. Moreover, on the part of the public authorities, it should stimulate reflection on data protection and economic and technological dependence on proprietary publishers. Given these elements, it seems to me essential that your administration can at least solve this technical obstacle and begin a broader reflection on its compatibility with free software. Why not consider, tomorrow, an administration that would use only these free software? Minister, do you confirm that it is impossible to affix an electronic signature on a VAT return completed via Intervat from a computer running on free software? Can you tell me if this impossibility is accidental or is the result of a deliberate will of the FPS Finances? Can you tell me if the FPS Finance services are working on a solution to this problem? How? How long? Can you provide an update on the use of FOSS within the FPS Finance? What is your policy in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u109	Gilkinet, when filing a document, the electronic signatures on Intervat's acknowledgement of receipt are generated via Adobe Acrobat. The latter, in fact, is incompatible with some free software, for example Linux. This is obviously not a deliberate desire to favour Adobe Acrobat. Many FPS Finance programs use this signature modality for consistency reasons. In addition, Intervat works perfectly with free software such as Mozilla Firefox or Google Chrome. As for the advanced economic component, know that the free version of Adobe Acrobat is sufficient. However, the FPS Finance is working on an alternative that should be cross-cutting for obvious reasons of cost reduction and in accordance with existing legislation. It is premature to decide on the modalities and time frame within which this new functionality will be made available to the public, as my administration is currently in the analysis phase, both at the computer, legal and budgetary levels. Open Office is installed on computers provided to FPS Finance staff. The policy is to focus on stable solutions for our IT tools.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u110	Minister, I take note of this openness to find a functional solution for these free software. I think our administrations should be less sluggish about this type of solution. In this case, I hope that a concrete response can be provided as soon as possible to the people concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u111	Minister, I don't know if you read L'Echo on Saturday, April 9, a serious newspaper. There was a very interesting file on the operation of the FPS Finance investigation services and the impact of data mining on this operation. This article strongly challenges data mining as a unique tool for determining tax fraud and directing the work of tax inspectors. According to some officials, this method is far too rigid, since it would involve the obligation to automatically monitor files released by the system, which is not always relevant, whereas using field information would be more effective in the fight against fraud. The preponderance and somewhat blindness of data mining prevents the seizure of other files from other channels, such as judicial investigations, increasingly numerous media sources or field information via whistleblowers. Other difficulties are pointed out, such as the lack of staff in anti-fraud coordination services - which creates a funnel - the limitation period reduced to seven years while it is ten years in other countries, but also the technical unemployment to which some ISI agents would be reduced due to the lack of sufficient files from the input management unit. At the very least, the testimony gathered is particularly challenging. If I were Minister of Finance, I would ask for accounts from those who hold management positions in my administration. Minister, do you share the diagnosis of malaise in the ISI made by this article in L'Echo - under-use of some investigators, ineffective preponderance of data mining, congestion in the selection of files? Has the data mining system been subject, since its inception, to an adversarial evaluation, for example at the outset of the testimony of field investigators? Would it not be appropriate, in the light of the evidence gathered, to relax its preponderance with regard to the selection of the files which the ISI may take up? Shouldn't input selection cells or CAF be strengthened so as to irrigate field inspectors more quickly? Are you ready to conduct a participatory audit of the operation of the ISI in order to identify the solutions to be implemented to make it even more effective in the fight against major tax fraud?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u112	Mr Gilkinet, this is an article which, as always, is entirely dependent on it and for which the journalist has not at all taken into account the prior information provided by the administration on the subject. As a result, the article contains approximations, shortcuts and inaccuracies. I dare even say that it is unworthy that a journalist completely neglects the answers to his various questions. Data mining within ISI accounts for less than 5% of the work plan entries. It is not a mass selection system, but it is used to dismantle complex mountings and identify fraudulent networks. Regional directors and chiefs of inspection have considerable latitude for stand-alone registrations, which obviously have to agree with the referral to the ISI. This is a huge confusion. Rather than "selection", it is appropriate to speak of "detection" of cases with very high risk potential. Data mining has in recent years made it possible to highlight still unknown or little-investigated montages. So this is a modern tool, which promotes a knowledge of the typologies that fraudsters want and which did not previously exist. It is above all more reactive than older devices. With regard to BBI projects, including BEPS-related typologies, offshore use and fraudulent claims, the ISI did not wait until today to work on these issues. As for the quality of the techniques used, ISI has a reference value in the analysis of data mining risks in the European Union. Last week, ECOFIN welcomed our expertise in deciding to use this detection system for VAT fraud. I would point out that the Dutch tried to steal it from us, but we were able to avoid it. Here are more than five that the ISI successfully practices in its projects the network analysis – technique presented as innovative by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists who have disclosed the Panama Papers. The fight against large-scale tax fraud is not only a repressive task, but early detection to avoid the establishment of fraudulent structures is also very important. With regard to the input cells of the regional directorates, each director has the flexibility to balance his/her resources between the unit and its inspection services as required. In fact, all ISI units are regularly assessed on the scale of their forces according to operational requirements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u113	Minister, I leave to your responsibility your lesson in journalism to the author of the article. It would be a mistake to reject all the content of an article with one back of the hand. There are probably more articles highlighting evidence that reinforces an article's thesis, but there is no smoke without fire. There are elements that cross-reference evidence that I personally received fairly regularly. The ISI is an indispensable tool that works rather well in the fight against major tax fraud, but its resources are not being used optimally. I hear a lot of questions about data mining, which has certain qualities but not all qualities. I regularly hear this criticism of the bottleneck in the selection of cases and I am concerned that some investigators are formally out of work. Fraud techniques are constantly evolving. If a system is ever efficient and at the cutting edge, for example the system to fight against VAT carousels or data mining, it is very quickly overtaken by the facts. You really have to be in perpetual motion so that you stay at the cutting edge. Those who cheat have a permanent imagination. Finally, we must listen to the expertise of field officers. Sometimes I feel that some positive initiatives are being killed in the egg by middle management in the administration. That's a shame! You have to listen to what the officers on file contact have to say. That is why I proposed a form of participatory audit, not a gas plant but for a real improvement of practices, through a form of quality circle, as happens in different sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u114	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hees' 11061 with regard to the fight against fraud is deleted and is dealt with in the special committee. It is one of the committee's main tasks to check what has been achieved since 2009 of the fraud plans. Debates of the European Parliament 11062 and 11063 were postponed at the request of Mr Van Hees. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hees' 11064 was also deleted and referred to the special committee. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hees' 11065 and 11066 were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hees' 11067 is deleted and is dealt with in the special committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u115	Mr President, Minister, SFPI is a very important body since it designates and provides daily support to the directors whom the federal government designates to represent it, in particular in banking institutions, Dexia or BNP Paribas. According to an article published in yesterday's L'Echo, the auditor of the Council of State considers that the acts that revoked the president of the SFPI, Mrs Bovy, from her mandate are insufficiently motivated. The Council of State was to rule on the matter today. While I read the dispatches on this subject, the Council of State followed the auditor's advice and reinstated Ms. Bovy as President of the SFPI, which is a failure for the government. I do not make a diagnosis of the status of Mrs Bovy or of the person who had been appointed to replace her, but in any case the act you have made has been broken by the Council of State, it is a fact and this fact is a failure. Minister, do you confirm the content of the opinion of the auditor of the Council of State in this matter and the decision of the Council of State in this case? What was the government's response to this opinion since the procedure is contradictory? What action will be taken by the government in this regard? Will Ms. Bovy be reinstated? I think I do. In general, that's what interests me especially, given the issues to be dealt with, is there no need to ensure better governance for the SFPI, regardless of partisan and political games, what does it look a bit like? And I'm not taking a stand in favour of either candidate. I repeat, I'm not a friend of any of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u116	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, the government is naturally aware of the opinion of the auditor of the Council of State. This is an opinion and it is appropriate to reserve the criticisms or observations that the government should make to the House of the Council of State. The Government will of course take account of the judgments to be delivered. At the time of this reply, the content of these judgments is not known. The Government, together with the Board of Directors of the SFPI, is currently considering measures to adapt the governance of the SFPI to its evolving tasks and growth, in accordance with the provisions of the SFPI Organization Act and subsequent amendments, and where appropriate. Where appropriate and at the appropriate time, the committee will be informed of any significant adaptations in this regard. Finally, the government refutes the partisan and political terms used in the issue. He pointed out that, in accordance with the SFPI's organic law, the work of this institution must be within the framework of the federal economic interest of which the government is the custodian. In this sense, this action is political, since the term cannot have the pejorative meaning underlying the exclusively controversial expression used by the author of the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u117	It's semantics. Politics, I like it: I do it! On the other hand, I don't like political games and I find that it's not up to the financial stakes that revolve around the SFPI. You seem not to be informed that the Council of State has decided to suspend the decision to revoke.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u118	Was it in today's papers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u119	It was announced in a Belga dispatch today. The Council of State followed the auditor's opinion. This means that Ms. Bovy must be reinstated, at least temporarily, in her position and that the government must consider how it works. That's why I was talking about a failure in the way things are done. We can make political decisions. Where appropriate, they must be properly reasoned so that they are not attacked and, in this case, revoked. Above all, our concern is that the persons who are appointed within the SFPI, and via the SFPI, to represent the Federal State are the most competent persons regardless of their political colour. Using SFPI as a machine to name friends compared to the billions of euros that are at stake, for example in the Dexia file, does not seem to me the best way to act.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u120	Mr President, Minister, I think we can be reassured: one day Ecolo will save the world!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u121	I haven't lost my illusions yet, Mr. Piedboeuf.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u122	Neither do I! Minister, the government has wanted to encourage investments in digital technologies, payment systems, digital billing, etc. With this in mind, it has reinforced the deductions for investments; I am passing on the details. However, when the implementation is examined, difficulties may arise. My first question is whether it is possible to amend the Royal Order because it refers to the date of installation rather than the date of the invoice, while the guarantee takes place from the date of invoicing. This is a detail. The most delicate part is that the text of the law has the term "exclusively" instead of "partially". A whole series of investments are made in this area, but they are not exclusively devoted to the subject matter that allows the deduction. So, minister, would it be possible to change the term "exclusively" by "partially"? If not, can we then make a pro-rata of the installation invoice, so that the investment deduction can apply? In summary, will the administration have a flexible approach in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u123	Mr President, Mr Piedboeuf, as part of this measure, the taxpayer must at the same time – I quote – "keep at the disposal of the Federal Public Service Finance the invoices relating to capital assets, which provide at least and in all cases, a date of invoicing, but also an effective date of installation and the exact period of coverage of the guarantee." The equipment purchased is in fact immobilized on the asset only from the moment it is installed. The period of coverage of the guarantee must be separately certified by the supplier of goods or services. Therefore, it is not the administration itself that should estimate this coverage period on the basis of the invoice date or the installation date. The use of the term "exclusively" is explained by the scope of the law, namely only – I quote again – "capital assets intended to integrate and operate digital payment and billing systems and systems that tend to secure information and communication technology." It is thus guaranteed that the measure effectively targets its objective, which is to support exclusively investments in cybersecurity and digital payment systems. In this case and in order to avoid abuse, Article 49/1 provides that: "Where the fixed assets referred to in § 1 are included in a global invoice comprising items not referred to in Article 69 (...) of the same Code, the investment or return value of the fixed assets to be taken into account in the context of this deduction shall be the actual value of those fixed assets separately mentioned on the invoice." The supplier of goods or services must therefore, in this case, mention qualifying capital assets separately on the invoice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u124	I have the answer to my question. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-27-54-commissie-ic404x.u125	Thank you, Minister. We've done a good job. Our agenda is completely finished. There will be no oral questions scheduled next week, but again the following week. Next week we will discuss and vote on the legislation on tax regularisation.
