ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u2	Mr Prime Minister, after the IS attack on a Christmas market in Berlin, I believe that the time of candle burning, merely expressing sympathy and tough statements afterwards, and then moving on to the order of the day, is now finally over. It is now clear to everyone, perhaps not for politicians but at least for many citizens, that additional security measures alone will not and cannot prevent attacks. Not the lack of agents or soldiers, not the lack of camera surveillance or road blocks, not the lack of additional security measures, lies at the root of the terrorist threat. Prime Minister, what is at the root of terrorism is the lack of a strong immigration and asylum policy, the lack of a de-islamisation policy in relation to the violent Islam religion, which is the basis for all this. In this respect, I have no choice but to say explicitly here today that your colleague, Mrs Merkel, has blood on her hands. She has blood on her hands, because it is because of Mrs Merkel's wir-schaffen-das-open border policy that it has finally all come to this, in Germany and in the meantime throughout Europe. Your government's policy is sick in the same bed. I believe that you would rather see concrete blocks around a Christmas market than barriers at the borders of our country. My question is therefore very clear. When will you finally draw the conclusions that are obvious? These conclusions are that our borders must be closed to Islamic refugees and foreigners, so that the bloody wave of terror which has been hitting us for a long time can finally be brought to an end.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u3	Mr President, Prime Minister, of course my thoughts go to the victims of the Berlin bombing, as well as to the survivors and their families. It is unfortunately becoming periodic to be Paris, to be Brussels, to be Berlin. Like the majority of the citizens of this country, I would like to be free to move safely, to visit the Christmas markets with my grandchildren without any fear, and without fear of becoming a victim. A few months ago, we denounced the fact that potential terrorists were infiltrating via the migrant channel, to reach incognito Europe. All of you shouted at the scandal, including on the TV sets. Unfortunately, we were right and the information was correct. Far from me, the idea of saying that migrants are terrorists, but some of them, a minority, I grant you, are or become terrorists. You call them foreign terror fighters, turnarounds. They are simply people of Muslim faith, radicalized, in other words dangerous people. Can we continue to play with security and endanger the lives of our fellow citizens? Prime Minister, your government has put measures in place since Paris. But are they sufficient and effective? I don't think so. A bracelet will not prevent ill-intentioned people from committing an act of madness. As far as the Salafist mosques financed by Saudi Arabia are concerned, we do not touch them. Their imams can continue to preach the sharia with impunity. The economic stake is enormous for Antwerp, which benefits Saudi investors. At some point, administrative measures will have to be taken against such places of worship or rather radicalization. Otherwise, we will one day be Liège or Namur, Ghent or Antwerp. However, I am aware that zero risk will never be achieved, but I believe that decisions can and must be taken at European level. Hotspots don't work. They do not have the means to be effective. In Belgium, when are you going to take action against the Salafist mosques known to all? Are you going to instruct the European authorities to install hotspots directly in Libya, Iraq or Syria, in order to carry out effective filtering?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to distance myself very much from what the previous speakers have said. [[Applause]] It is indeed painful to see a third capital in the European Union being the victim of blind terrorist violence last Monday. In Paris people were aiming for people who wanted to visit a concert or frequented a terrace. In Brussels they were targeting commuters and tourists at the airport. Now it is innocent people who were present at a Christmas market in Berlin, who are the victims of the horror, which has already taken far too much time from our political work. Mr Prime Minister, I noticed that a series of wounds were immediately reopened, including those in our country who have experienced this from far or near, either as a helper or as victims' victims or relatives. What also struck me was the direct reflex with a lot of security services, including in my area, to see if they could step up. Even though it is Christmas, even though they are on leave, many events in our country have received a new screening, a new screening has been carried out in the field of security policy. Everywhere there was a little bit of a tooth. There's been a withdrawal of engagements. There are people who are effectively not going skiing to get it around on their team. That too can and must be said. Mr Prime Minister, the problem facing the whole world in Germany is now looking at Germany as a result of the rigorous follow-up, people who were in the picture but not sufficiently controlled, which means that there is now a search, is ringing bells to our regret. I have only one question, Prime Minister. When will taboos die in our country to put the efficiency of our security services first on the agenda? Yesterday there was a heated debate in the media between two police zones in Brussels, the police zone South and the police zone West, about whom the worst performance is achieved. It was possible to follow that discussion closely through the media. Mr Prime Minister, when will the obvious taboo fall and will the police areas in our capital be allowed to cooperate in a structural way through a merger? That is the only question I would like to ask you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to express my support for the people of Germany. This is another tragedy. This is another dramatic moment for the victims and their families. I would like to share with you some elements concerning this attack in Berlin. From Monday, through the Crisis Centre, we recalled the instructions developed by the security services for several weeks as we measured that the end-of-year holiday period could be sensitive from a security point of view. We also had the opportunity yesterday in the Security Council to receive an update of the evaluation by the OCAM, which confirms Level 3. We have taken note of the complementary or adapted measures addressed by the Crisis Centre to local areas in order to be vigilant and prudent even if the zero risk does not exist. However, I cannot accept some of the comments I have heard. I'm not surprised at Mr. Dewinter's attitude. Your program is hatred of the other, populism, and that is not the path we choose. (Applause) Over the last two years, with Parliament's support, we have tried to take many concrete measures. And we are constantly exploring the possibilities of doing even more and better. That's our goal. We have adopted 30 measures which have been implemented to a large extent. We released two commissions, EUR 200 million last year and EUR 400 million this year. Several royal decrees were made to operationalize the use of resources in this interdepartmental provision, more human resources for the security services, more technical and operational resources for the security services. We fully assume our responsibilities and will continue to do so throughout the coming months and the legislature. We also take into account our external responsibilities. We have acted forcefully to strengthen the control of Europe's external borders because we also considered that the necessary work should be done on this point. Progress has been made, of course still insufficient, and we fully assume our role in the European fora to achieve important results. Mr Bonte rightly referred to the follow-up of a number of people who are, at a given time, suspected or likely to organise steps to be taken. In this context, we have worked hard to improve and strengthen the logic of the databases and to have greater cooperation at European level. We call for strong cooperation between the intelligence services. I am pleased to note a few days ago that Europol was very positive about the attitude of the Belgian security services in that regard. I am also counting on Parliament to draw positive lessons from the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry and to see how we can do better in the future and do more. Mr Bonte, you only asked one question, but she surprised me somewhat. Is it so easy and so obvious to establish a link between the unfortunate attack in Berlin and the situation of the police area in Brussels? In this context, I have said a few times that there are no taboos. Of course, we are prepared to cooperate with the Brussels Government if it were to make a proposal at some point. After the sixth state reform, that's possible. What matters to us is efficiency and good coordination to work together as best we can. We'll continue the work. As you know, we have made progress, for example, in the area of surveillance camera legislation. We have also made progress in legislation related to private security, in order to better define the key tasks of the police and the issues under which private operators, with clear and precise rules, can also carry out missions. In short, we take the issue of security very seriously and we are strongly mobilized. In Belgium, thanks to the security measures that have been taken, we have condemned very many people for terrorist acts this past year, since 2015. The implementation of the measures taken demonstrates our commitment and commitment. We will continue to work, with due respect for democratic values and the rule of law, to ensure the security and freedom of our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, yesterday I heard your Minister for the Interior on television saying 'Belgium is not Germany'. He referred to the fact that we took a number of measures which were not taken in Germany. I note that the perpetrator of the event in Germany is an illegal Tunisian asylum seeker. When I compare the situation in our country, I find that we are sick in the same bed. In 2015, out of a total of around 250 000 illegal immigrants in Belgium, around 43 000 of them were ordered to be expelled. In practice, 8 432 were actually evicted. This means that 80% of the illegals who have been deported in our country have disappeared in nature. We are in the same situation as Germany in that regard. Prime Minister, you are talking about taboos, police zones and so on. The taboo does not cover security and anti-terrorism measures. The taboo relates to open border policy. The taboo, Prime Minister, is Islam. Today you pay the toll of welcome culture, you pay today the price of your open border policy, of Mrs Merkel's open border policy, of the European Union's open border policy. Finally, just this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u7	Mr. Dewinter!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u8	Mr President, I'm replicating the Prime Minister's attack. You take words like populism, far right and whatnot, in your mouth. They're just lightning rods. The enemy today is not populism, Prime Minister. The enemy is radical Islam, IS and Al Qaeda. The enemy is your open border policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u9	Mr Dewinter, you must respect the agreements on speaking time for the replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u10	Prime Minister, thank you for your clarification. I am pleased to hear that the external borders will be strengthened. But the politically correct one will wipe us out. I think we need to be able to put the right words where we need them. How can a patient be asked to heal and fight a disease if he or she does not know the name? Combating terrorism and condemning it: can we? Terrorism is a weapon. It is difficult to condemn a kalashnikov. We must condemn and combat those who use this weapon, those who are behind terrorism. Prime Minister, go ahead, throw away the politically correct nettles. The lives of innocent people and human life in general are priceless.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u11	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for your reply. Let me be clear about the intention for which I stand. The intention is, I think, to say that in this policy area majority and opposition work together best and that government and Parliament also work together best. I do not think anyone here has anything to do with democratic politics, although I see many attempts. If I have asked one question, it is whether we should not put efficiency in police and security work first in the context of rigorous follow-up. Prime Minister, you say that I only asked one question. I can ask a lot of questions. How come Molenbeek's police area still doesn't have online surveillance on the subway network and the cameras there? How come the Vilvoorde police area still doesn't have online access to the camera network at Vilvoorde station? How come a police zone doesn't get information from the prison system when someone is on parole? Efficiency is the absolute priority that we should be able to implement in everyday practice. One final point, Prime Minister. I note that you are also looking at the attitude of the Brussels Government in the context of police reform. It is clear that, if we want to act efficiently, we should also move towards a uniform structure for the follow-up in our capital city. Then it is up to you, if necessary, to find a consensus with the regions that our people expect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u12	Prime Minister, I would very much like to start with a quote. I personally advocate a system of a highly qualified board of directors, with no political colour, which also closely monitors its independence from politics and its political tenors.' You may know where the quote came from. The quote comes from Mr Descheemaecker from his book Dwarsligger. This morning on the train, Prime Minister, I saw passengers looking for a free seat again and I heard them wailing, because another overhead line was broken and the train to Brussels would be delayed again. Those travelers then read in the Metro.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's an old crocodile, a man who's been cocked into his policy with SNCB and pushed aside. How do you explain this to hundreds of thousands of travellers who have been facing problems on the ground every day for years? When he became CEO, customer satisfaction and punctuality fell. He took out trains. He shut down stations. He was thanked for his services in 2014 and received a million euro cancellation fees. Now he comes back with a membership card in his hand, the "power of appointment." Then the question immediately arises: what about the one million euros? He got it to leave, and now he's coming back. Prime Minister, you have a great responsibility. You have the appointment lists in front of you on your desk. Mrs. De Block's head of the cabinet is moving here, a former head of the cabinet of Mr. Jambon over there. My question is quite clear: do you think it is a good idea to appoint Marc Descheemaecker on the board of directors as a kind of mother-in-law alongside the new CEO? What is the government's position? What is the position of your coalition partners? Will the colleagues of CD&V find that pleasurable? I'd like to know about you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u13	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, like Mr Van Hecke, I was very surprised that the N-VA pushed Mr Descheemaecker forward as a member of the board of directors. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be honest: his report was not that good. Mr President, I should like to cheat so that I am sure I do not give false figures. The punctuality of the trains was 93,2 % in 2004. Ten years of Mr Descheemaecker's administration will overall reduce that figure to 84 % in 2013. That's a low point. I'm still positive, because the low point "D" here reminds you of the fuss "D" there came in October 2013. The punctuality was then 79 %. Customer satisfaction in 2004 was 7.5/10. In 2013 it was just over halfway. Debts amounted to EUR 1 billion in 2004. I must confess that he scored well in that respect, unfortunately, because in 2013 the debts had doubled. Mr Prime Minister, at that time all of this was a double wage of yours. He also received a retirement allowance, for which you should, for example, be in charge of the country for five years or may be subject to it. By the way, was that the reward? Prime Minister, do you know of a company where an ex-CEO with such a track record was subsequently appointed to the board of directors? That is a very specific question. By the way, I was of the opinion that there was an agreement on depoliticisation in 2016. But I'm wrong. I read in the newspaper today Mrs De Coninck's statement that Mr Descheemaecker is now on the board of directors on behalf of the N-VA to defend the views of the N-VA. I could also quote your statement that was in the front of the book, but I do not use it; I have a number of other quotes. For example, we read in the book that a board of directors may be set up, consisting of corporate leaders and academics, without strong political ties, who are independent and selected by a headhunter college in a first phase. Furthermore, the book talks about "slip carriers." It can be in life, of course. Mr Prime Minister, my question is as follows. What's your vision? On the one hand, I note that Mrs Dutordoir points out that the most important thing for her is the travellers. On the other hand, the board is now getting a mole or a mole put there to boycott decisions. What is your government's vision? Do you accept that, after the various tackles on Bellot, now your entire government is being tackled?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your pleasant questions. The first priority for the government, an important challenge, is the reform of SNCB. Our priorities are customer friendliness, punctuality, safety and quality of service. I think everyone can agree with that. We had to make two important decisions. After Mr Cornu's resignation, a procedure for his succession had to be initiated. We did this in a very objective way during the summer. (Loud protest) I would like to remind you that, with the experience of Mr Vande Lanotte, I recommend that we be more attentive and cautious on this point. History is not so pleasant in that respect. Last summer, we chose to use a headhunter. We've taken our time. The headhunter checked 270 names. A few days ago, the nuclear cabinet got a shortlist with four names. Then we have chosen Mrs Sophie Dutordoir. We give confidence to Mrs Sophie Dutordoir to address the challenges. After the sixth state reform, we also intended to adapt the board of directors. I'm happy. It is positive that the Regions will be represented on the Management Board. In order to achieve a political and democratic balance and in view of the evolution in which there is more openness towards the Regions, an adjustment of the Board of Directors was really necessary. That is why tomorrow there will be a draft decision to supplement the Governing Board on the government's agenda. We will take the decision tomorrow, taking into account the various proposals on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u15	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. However, I asked questions about Mr Descheemaecker and you referred to Mrs Dutordoir. I didn't ask any questions about that. I have the impression that you are trying to avoid the debate a little bit. You refer to the socialists, but I have the impression that your behaviour is somewhat in line. Ladies and gentlemen of the N-VA, the N-VA should actually be ashamed. Together with you, in 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014, we advocated a depoliticisation of the boards of directors. Now you're doing this! Mr Descheemaecker should be ashamed, because what he writes in his book, he throws overboard, as he becomes a member of a board of directors again. You should be ashamed. Mr Prime Minister, I hope you will also read Mr Descheemaecker's book and take note of the lessons he has learned. He talks about how the board of directors is the puppet of the government, which actually determines the policy, even if that is contrary to the interests of SNCB, he himself writes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u16	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. What Mr Van Hecke says is true: you are dribbling around the answer. My question was, I thought, very clear, namely, do you think it's normal? You are now talking about the appointment train with Mrs Dutordoir, among others. The finding is that it was delayed for six months because the N-VA wanted to take a number of posts. That's what it's all about. It's pure mailboxing, no more or less. I thought Mrs Dutordoir's interview with the statement that the passenger's interest comes first was very good. I'm just finding that in the government, your coalition partners are doing something different today. My question is whether you will accept that. Do you think that's normal, yes or no? You're not answering that at all. So I'm afraid you're tied to your government partner again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u17	Mr Prime Minister, the ARCO judgment is a disgrace to the Leterme government. The guarantee system for savers was indeed expandable to the co-operatives. That was indeed possible, also stated in the judgment. What was the problem, however, according to the Court of Justice? The problem was that ARCO had not contributed to the guarantee system. The whole story symbolizes ARCO's gray culture. We want the will, but not the burden. The question is, of course, whether this gray culture will continue. Some are now seeking compensation from the State. Will the Belgian State pay that compensation? Any compensation that replaces unlawful state aid is also unlawful state aid, so that will not work either. A commercial gesture of Belfius is a possibility. If we do a commercial gesture to the ARCO co-operatives, we must know that there will be no dividend for the budget, and that budget already has a serious gap. So we can spare that. I would also like to remind you that the gesture of a state bank is also a gesture of government, and that is why the problem of illegal state aid is being raised. Minister Peeters wants a creative solution that targets the taxpayer as little as possible directly. Maybe indirectly, then? Why should taxpayers have to pay for that? Nor can it be according to the judgment. The fact that Belfius wants to keep its customers is completely legal. That's not a problem. However, if the public authorities support Belfius in this, then we have selective support and I would remind you that paragraph 96 of the judgment makes it very clear that selective aid is not possible either. Finally, there is the principle of equality: if we help the ARCO shareholders because they are, what about Dexia shareholders and, by extension, the Fortis shareholders? After all, all shareholders are equal before the law. Prime Minister, who's in the task force? I hope they're very resourceful people. Finally, I hope that the regulation will not be done on account of the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u18	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers was on September 15, 2008. Eight years later, we continue to suffer the damage caused by the financial crisis. The Court of Justice of the European Union has ruled. Without much surprise, ARCO's co-operators will not be able to benefit from the EUR 100 000 guarantee granted to savers. We understand the legal reasoning of the Court of Justice: these co-operators are not savers in the strict sense of the term. But they're not speculators either. It was Mr. and Mrs. All-the-World who wanted to place without risk, presumably, on the advice of either intermediary, in this case an institution, a pillar. It is clear that the use of a guarantee of EUR 100 000 does not seem to be appropriate from a legal point of view. But it seems that your government wants to continue trying to find a quick solution for these co-operators. This solution must be a wise mix between fairness and legal validity, but also between budgetary realism and the federal state's financial capacity. Indeed, it would not be understandable for you to make the addition to all our fellow citizens pay, since the federal budget is in a difficult situation. To do otherwise would be unthinkable! In the same way, we wouldn't understand that you were using Belfius to solve the problem. Today, this bank has a certain profitability. His situation should not be compromised in order to solve another problem. You don't solve one problem by creating another. Minister, you are announcing the creation of a task force. Where are you at at this level? Who will compose it? What will his exact mandate be? When do you think of a solution? What overall budget volume do you think should be devoted to a solution for ARCO co-operators, within a sustainable legal framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u19	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, 780,000 co-operators, or rather savers, ARCO, have lost their savings. I think I can say that they are in no way responsible for this loss. Those responsible, it was the financial world that played in the casino economy and it was also the political world that let them, or even encouraged them. In 2008, eight years ago, Yves Leterme, Prime Minister, said, "I'm going to protect you." He was followed by his successors and yourself, first in the government agreement. And then, on this third Sunday in October, you reconfirmed the government agreement by promising a solution for 2017. Today, the Court of Justice of the European Union is ruling against the ARCO agreement with, however, a door still open to an arrangement. But what a difference between saving banks where, in 24 hours, billions were found to save banks with the backing of Europe! There was then no state aid problem. Europe has given its direct approval. Don't worry. On the other hand, to compensate small savers for a much smaller amount, it takes eight years of procedure, ordeal, or uncertainty for these savers. Prime Minister, do you intend to compensate these ARCO savers? Will you follow your promises and those of your predecessors? Or will you follow those who, within your majority, are using this file instead to attack trade unions and mutuals? Could you give us more details on how you are going to do this, if you already have information? Will you keep the 2017 deadline? Why is it so simple and fast when it comes to saving banks, including from the European Union, and so complicated when it comes to small savers? Finally, do you not find that the whole banking sector, responsible for the financial crisis and therefore responsible for the situation of these savers ARCO, has to pay this compensation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed a complex matter. It is a matter for which the previous governments, on several occasions, have expressed the political wish to be able to find a solution given the context in which we were situated a few years ago. You know that, as soon as the government was formed, in the government agreement, in full transparency, we had informed Parliament that the four formations confirmed this desire for a settlement, in order to be able to compensate the co-operators. In the latest declaration of government, I confirmed our coalition agreement on behalf of the government. About the timing, I was also precise. I said that the operational implementation for 2017 is foreseen. That remains the political objective of this government. Will it be easy and obvious? No, it will not be easy or obvious, because different legal aspects are at issue. Today, a new step is being taken in the procedure on the basis of the latest decision. The aim is to continue working on this in a task force with experts and representatives of the coalition. The different possibilities will also be examined at both legal and financial level. Everyone is aware of the sensitivities of this delicate dossier. It is our intention to remain calm and cold-blooded. On the basis of the facts and the objective assessment of the situation, we will see at some point in the Council of Ministers how we can achieve results. To clarify, I would like to provide additional information on the mandate of the Task Force. The task force should also take account of the settlement procedure. That hatch can also be an element in finding a possible solution. You have understood that we intend to continue to conduct the work in relation to this. Our objective is, in a respectful manner for everyone, to find a reasonable and acceptable solution. We will not fail to inform Parliament when a decision is taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u21	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your explanation. I wish that task force every success, because it will have to be very resourceful. 800 000 co-operatives have been cheated. I understand that we have to help them, but I think that the impostors should pay for that. Movement.net cheated on her co-opers twice. It once provided false information about a financial product and a second time it simply did not contribute to the guarantee scheme. That too was a big mistake. The plan B, which you are proposing, Prime Minister, must be a plan, with the B of Movement.net. We already pay blue to crooked state structures. It can't be that we now have to pay blue for a burrowing. I therefore turn to Beweging.net. Where's that heart upstairs hard? Harder than a cold multinational can't be. You're rejecting your co-ops, you're just putting them in the garbage. Dear Movement.net, take responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u22	Prime Minister, you and your government have been very creative in finding solutions that are favourable to the diamond sector. We hope that you will also be inventive for all those co-operators who are not speculators and who have, in the end, been victims of a financial sector that is too deregulated and not sufficiently controlled. We will therefore be paying attention to this issue, in all its aspects: fairness, legal validity, but also budgetary validity, and in this respect you have not answered the question I asked you. Case to follow, therefore, but let us learn above all from all this. Let us not give in to the temptation to set back in the myth of the self-regulation of finance. We know that several lobbies are at work. We have seen this with the tax on financial speculation, an example of how we can move back on some issues. This illustrates how essential it is that speculators no longer create situations such as the one we are obliged to deal with in order to limit the damage inflicted on many savers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u23	Prime Minister, your answer was incomplete. I will remember one thing: you have still talked about the 2017 deadline, which you confirm. Otherwise, you tell us very vaguely that reasonable and acceptable solutions are needed. Is it reasonable to charge the public, when the person in charge is clearly the banking sector, whose victims we have to compensate? Of course, the political world also has a share of responsibility, but let's move on. Why not contribute to the banking sector? We know that the bankers responsible for this crisis, including in Belgium, have hardly been worried. We see banks like ING with ten billion profits and hugely licencing. So this sector has not changed. He continues to seek profit at all costs. We know that your government has in its boxes the privatization of Belfius. In other words, we reproduce the mistakes of the past. I simply remind you of the story: the CGER and the Crédit Communal, for 130 years under public administration, have never experienced a problem; after ten years of privatization and entry into the stock exchange, it was the catastrophe. Let's learn from it. Above all, find a reasonable and acceptable solution for these savings co-operators.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u24	Mr President, Minister, since the establishment of this government, we have repeatedly denounced the lack of ambition for consumer protection. We repeat this tirelessly: you have abandoned the consumer, preferring to turn to banks and large companies. You are not the only one responsible in this government, your colleagues in charge of telecoms and health, the SNCB, the Minister of Electrobel - pardon, energy - are not left behind. The only ambition of this government would therefore be to maintain the status quo. So, to hide your immobilism, you're talking about evaluation, complementary studies, etc. Meanwhile, nothing's going on. However, there are plenty of cases, such as regulating current account management fees and putting the services in order, enabling young drivers to ensure themselves at decent and accessible prices, combating over-indebtedness, and combating planned obsolescence. What about the remaining balance insurance payable for people with an increased health risk? Unlike this government, we want concrete solutions. If you are not interested, pass your hand to Parliament, we have dozens of texts on the table. You will be able to say that these are the words of a Socialist Member of Parliament, a member of the opposition, but all this has been confirmed to you in a bulletin sent to you by Test-Achats. As far as I know, Test-Achats is not a PS branch. Your general policy does not reassure us at all. Minister, you are not only Minister of Social Affairs, but also Minister of Consumer Protection, and we have the impression that you often forget that. So it's time to get to work. What have you done to protect consumers from bank charges? What is the status of the various studies commissioned at the Price Observatory?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u25	Mr President, Mr Delannois, I shall be very brief. Like many, yesterday I became aware of Test-Achats' press release. I take note of this and leave to the author the responsibility for his comments. There's nothing else to say about this, as far as I'm concerned. I'm going to work, as I do every day and, for the rest, we'll see.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u26	Minister, I expected an answer. When you ask a question, that's obviously the least of all. I take note of your attitude. However, the year is coming to an end and, as at school, your first Test-Achats newsletter mentions that you can do better. In view of what you have just told me, I think there is still a lot of work to be done by the end of the mandate. But if you don't get together - and you don't seem to want to do it - I'm afraid at the end of the term, Test-Achats says, "Student Peeters, you're busted!"
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u27	Mr President, I was deeply shocked by the minister's lack of response. The purpose of the question-and-answer session is to allow parliamentarians to ask questions and obtain answers. It's not a place to say we hear, but we don't do anything. That is not to respect Parliament or parliamentarians. If you do not like your consumer protection competence, you can always give it to another minister. In the meantime, it's indecent!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u28	Mr Minister, after a study, the BIPT, the telecom regulator, concludes that there is a lack of competition in the telecoms market in our country. Two large companies dominate the telecom market in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u29	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u30	May I continue, Mrs. Onkelinx?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u31	Mr Yüksel, I would just like you to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u32	The BIPT compared prices in our country with those in neighbouring countries. Turns out what? The telecom bundles with telephony, internet and digital television are more expensive in Belgium than in our neighbouring countries. The prices of mobile telephony subscriptions are also not falling, as opposed to those in neighbouring countries. Belgium is, of course, losing a lot of competitiveness. Not only ordinary consumers, but also SMEs and businesses face the consequences of that duopoly and the lack of competition. Peter De Keyzer, a leading economist, says that the government is countering competition in the telecoms market because as a majority shareholder of Proximus, it benefits from high telecom charges and can thus gain more profit from the market. Minister, you recently announced that consumers with telecom bundles will be able to switch to a cheaper competitor, the so-called easy switch by the summer of 2017. I have one specific question for you, Minister. Do you think the current telecoms regulation is satisfactory? What measures will you take to reduce the costs of telecommunications services for ordinary consumers, as well as for our SMEs and companies, to the level of prices in our neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u33	Mr President, Mr Yüksel, thank you for your question. The new price study does not give a clear picture. There are a number of things in which we are competitive. For mobile subscriptions, for example, prices are similar to those in our neighbouring countries. In the field of broadband stand alone, we are pretty good. It is true that we are doing less well in what is called the triple play bundles. Why are we doing the cell phone right? Because there are a lot of operators. There are 40 different operators, and that is good for the consumer, which leads to a lot of innovation and lower prices. You know that, of course, I cannot intervene directly in the market. For this there is an independent regulator, the BIPT. The BIPT does market analyses. Moreover, the result of the previous market analysis was the opening up of the cable. This has ensured that there is a new operator, Orange, who now also offers his services on cable, which will lead to lower prices. That is a good thing. The BIPT carried out a new market analysis during the year and its results are expected at the beginning of next year. Easy switch will be an important element, because today it is often difficult for consumers to change fixed operators because there is a risk of double invoices and a risk of interruption of services. This means that too little change is being made. Easy switch will go in the middle of next year. As you probably know, a new board for BIPT will be appointed. Selor proposed candidates, and I interviewed those candidates as jurors afterwards. One of the questions was how the regulator can work faster and how a faster-acting regulator in a rapidly changing market can ensure that we act better in the interests of the consumer. Otherwise, a regulator like the BIPT actually goes after the facts and that is not a good thing. We have the right instruments in our country, but a regulator that works faster and responds better to market changes is a good thing. That is also what I expect from the new board of BIPT.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u34	Mr President, Minister, telecoms and telecommunications services are important in our lives; 61 percent of Belgians today have a smartphone. It is vengeful that ordinary consumers, but also companies that fight daily to safeguard their position on the market, have to pay more for telecom services than in our neighbouring countries. Easy switch will indeed stimulate the market and price setting a little bit and allow competition. There are, of course, also the heavy costs for infrastructure. You know that a lot of utilities have infrastructure. It would be good if telecom operators could use that network, because these heavy costs are passed on to customers. You may know that Belgium is obliged by the European Union to open up that utility infrastructure to telecom operators. This was the case in Belgium. There is also an infringement procedure under way. The federal government and the Regions must take a number of steps to make all this possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u35	Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that Joseph Kabila has chosen in the Congo the policy of the worst, the policy of the flight forward, the rape of the Congolese Constitution and the tyranny that is taking place. There have already been at least 20 deaths since December 19. At the same time, we learn from Bloomberg that he and his relatives have accumulated, in a few years, a fortune equivalent to $15 billion. This amount, which represents about a century and a half of Belgian bilateral cooperation, has been captured by the Kabila clan at the expense of the Congolese people, who are now one of the poorest in the world and who live in extreme poverty. Minister, I know you didn't stand up. My questions are simple. What is your assessment of the situation on the spot and the situation of Belgians? How can they be protected? We know a C-130 had to take off immediately. What do you think? You said you were going to reconsider our bilateral relations. What is the meaning of this review? Other European Union countries have also announced this. How does it make sense to continue direct bilateral cooperation with a tyrant who has so seized the wealth of his country? Is it not also a general lesson that we must learn from this instrument of cooperation? Last question, you know that a Belgian is the head of this government. The Congolese Constitution prohibits it. He claims to have renounced his Belgian nationality. Has he taken steps with our diplomatic post to renounce that nationality?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u36	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the clan of the one to be known today as former President Kabila and his friends, occupies a position aimed at locking up the future of Congolese people, simply as he locks up the $15 billion safe that Mr Dallemagne has just spoken of, a safe that has been looted among Congolese citizens themselves. I would like to welcome, Minister, what you have said and done so far. It's important. I have already said this in committee, but I would like to pay tribute here to an attitude which is extremely responsible. I think you've committed a faultless act so far. I have four questions about events involving Congolese and Belgian citizens. Of the $15 billion in Joseph Kabila's assets, some of them may be in Belgium. Have any initiatives been taken here to freeze the Belgian part of these assets? Are other sanctions envisaged against Congolese officials? I am thinking in particular of Lambert Mende, Minister of Communication and Media, who closed social networks and made de facto the challenge in the streets of Kinshasa and other cities in the Congo impossible. How did the Belgians respect your opinion of not travelling to the Congo? How many Belgians have now returned from the Congo? Your colleague, Minister Alexander De Croo, spoke about the possibility of non-immunity. Will the crimes that were committed a few months ago and the 21 deaths that have occurred since Sunday, the date of the official end of Joseph Kabila's mandate, remain unpunished? What are you planning to do bilaterally and multilaterally to ensure that those responsible for these crimes are prosecuted?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u37	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it has happened. After the end of the deadline of 19 December, Kabila is now officially an illegal head of state. His government no longer represents the Congolese people. In recent weeks, it was already clear that Kabila did not intend to compromise with the opposition. Rather, it was him who was there to smother all the rebellion in the bud. The football competition was closed because there was fear of rioters in the stadiums. Social media "whatsapp," facebook, twitter "have been blocked and military checkpoints appeared in the street. At first sight, that strategy seemed to work because the Congolese people stayed at home for fear. In the last few days, we can see that the Congolese people are not just gonna let themselves be done. With whistles and red cards they march on the street to protest against Kabila. Unfortunately, this leads back to harsh repression. The sad bottom of all this is the 26 deaths that occurred during the demonstrations. After the turbulent summer, in which 50 people died, the regime once again proved that the blood is on its hands. In addition, we also see the many arrests and abductions by the security services. Moreover, the violence flares up in the unstable East Congo. Belgium has taken a clear position. The individual responsibility, which some have in this violence, must be followed. Furthermore, the relationships will be reviewed if there is no inclusive agreement. My questions are as follows, Minister. What about the new sanctions now that there have been deaths? How exactly is the cooperation with Congo reviewed? What can we expect in the short term? Finally, we have heard that our country is in prime readiness to repatriate Belgians from Congo. Do you think this will be necessary in the short term? First there is a specific anti-Belgian sentiment in Congo today?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u38	Mr President, Minister, 19 December was to be an important date for the Democratic Republic of the Congo, which was to coincide with the end of President Kabila's term of office. If he persisted, we could fear tensions and, unfortunately, that is what is happening today. A democracy takes place every day and involves de facto respect for its Constitution. That is the stakes of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The DRC must remain a priority for Belgian diplomacy. It is in this sense that my party made it its priority when we had to choose the various section presidents of the Inter-Parliamentary Union. Unfortunately, we can only note that this friendly country is plunged into a political and human tragedy as the president whose term of office was to end on Tuesday tries to keep himself in power despite the Constitution. The figure of 20 demonstrators killed in clashes with law enforcement forces in Kinshasa is announced as the Catholic Church tries to play the conciliators and demands that an agreement be reached by Christmas. These violences and disputes are almost in camera, while the Congolese authorities have banned access to their territory to a C-130 of our national defence and to a team of Belgian journalists, and have blocked social networks. Minister, can you tell us about the latest information from the DRC and our diplomatic posts? What is your attitude in this context, both politically and safely, in the face of bloody repression and demonstrations? What is the role of MONUSCO in this context? Depending on the current situation, what will be Belgium's attitude in terms of sanctions, diplomacy and development cooperation and defence? Will the question of the fate of the population and civil society be included in this reflection? Can you tell us what is currently planned in the event of a collapse of the situation, in particular with a view to repatriating our nationals? Finally, what will your red line be to organize this repatriation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u39	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first deadline that Kabila has set itself. On the contrary, until today, until 19 December 2016, he has tried several delaying manoeuvres. He has tried to do all kinds of things to postpone those elections. Today, after 19 December 2016, we have to ask ourselves whether this additional delay does not mean more or less than that Kabila is entering into a third mandate. In my view, this is how we should perceive the issue: Kabila is entering a third mandate. The resistance is being smothered in the bud in the streets of Congo. People are killed; the press and social media are silenced. Kabila doesn't tolerate prying eyes. Ladies and gentlemen, we may be facing a change of year, but that change of power is far from coming. We read that this government, through ministers De Croo and Reynders, wants to review the relations between Belgium and Congo and to continue its efforts to individualise those who break the law there. Diplomaticly, this government is now explicitly saying no to Kabila's third mandate. Militaryly, this government is ready with an evacuation scenario to bring 4,000 Belgians back from Congo. Financially, however, this government continues to support it. It will continue to provide financial support. Unlike Burundi, with whom we have temporarily frozen development cooperation, this is not happening here. The government blows hot and cold. However, this has always been the view of my colleague Rita Bellens on the committee. Development cooperation must be conditional. Development cooperation must be subject to a condition. Although financial support is not as important and not as large as in Burundi, its impact and symbolic value are all the more significant. We do have a voice on the international forum. That is why I have the following question. How can you review the relations between the Congo and Belgium? In what way do you want to realize that? Minister, I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u40	Mr President, Minister, on Monday night Joseph Kabila's mandate ended. Kabila and his regime today use brutal force to maintain the acquired dominant position and to maintain access to the Congolese fat jars. It is a shameless spectacle on the hood of poor Congolese, in a country without state, a country without facilities, a country where the war in the east physically and mentally exhausts and destroys people. Some argue that the international community should not interfere with the internal affairs of a sovereign state. I believe, however, that we can say that non-intervention in Congo today is equivalent to negligence. The seriousness of the situation in Congo cannot be underestimated. It is unacceptable in a democratic process for Belgian journalists to be brought to the door, for the Internet and social media to be closed down. It is also unworthy of a rule of law that hundreds of people are picked up at random on the street. It is contrary to all human rights conventions that 34 people have already died in the streets of Kinshasa. That is why the international community must act. We adopted an important resolution here last summer. I believe that the Belgian Government has worked well in the light of the elements of this resolution. Today we can only give one message to Kabila:ça suffit, it is enough! One bridge too far . The Belgian Government has taken a number of steps at international and European level. Individual sanctions against security officers were issued. It has always been said that we are in favour of inclusive dialogue, involving the entire opposition. In view of the current status quo of the transitional government, we have repeatedly argued for serious elections in 2017. So, Minister, I have the following questions for you. What about individual sanctions? I know that the European level has issued it. Will Belgium extend it to the security officials and government members? Now that Kabila no longer has legal legitimacy, how will the cooperation between Congo and our country proceed? How does it proceed with regard to the current transitional government? Will Belgium call for European aid to the Congolese police to be stopped? Finally, how many Belgians are still in the Congo today? Have they been provided for their evacuation yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u41	There's a lot of questions. I will try to answer as briefly as possible. First of all, I confirm that we have been following the situation in the Congo for a long time. But this situation is now particularly tense. It causes violence and, unfortunately, a number of deaths have to be deplored. According to what is known today, the national police have already recognized 22 deaths in its ranks, 9 in Kinshasa, 8 in Lubumbashi, 3 in Matadi and 2 in Boma. There have also been hundreds of arrests. Some of them have been particularly violent. The repression is very strong, especially in Lubumbashi. I confirm that, just in Lubumbashi, according to MONUSCO, the death of 10 civilians, including 8 men, 1 17-year-old and a 7-month-old baby, has already been deplored. We also have information from Kinshasa, but it is still unverified precisely; these report dozens of deaths. The situation is therefore particularly serious. In addition, fighting and conflict took place again in the eastern part of the Congo, but perhaps also in the north-west. Some information is circulating on the subject. Added to this is the fact that the economic and social situation in the country today is particularly disastrous. For some time now, there has been a climate in which rights and freedoms are severely restricted. I protested very clearly and clearly, it was a clear condemnation of the expulsion of journalists from VRT and VTM. That expulsion happened for no reason. They were just undesirable. I also contacted Prime Minister Matata at the time in order, among other things, to charge very clearly and clearly the refusal of visas for some of the military who were responsible for the security of our Consulate General in Lubumbashi. From the outset, I said that we should ask the government not to use so much violence; any action must be proportionate. The opposition has not called for the demonstration these days. She did not call for the use of violence. Yet, we are witnessing a country that is closing, increasingly closed, in a number of its cities and neighbourhoods, with excessive use of violence. Beyond this, we continue to support the search for an inclusive agreement. I have supported CENCO, like many others in Europe and beyond. It is a very good initiative that aims to achieve a broader and inclusive agreement with all parties. That was a question from Belgium and the European Commission. We will see in the next few days whether more inclusiveness is possible. This is very difficult, but we are trying to provide direct support for this. There was a call for a different policy and a different relationship with Congo. We must indeed review our relationship with Congo in the next few weeks and months. In the longer term, we can consider a different approach, but sanctions are now needed. We're already working on that. With the EU, we have already taken a decision against seven responsible security officers. We are also reviewing our financial relationship in the field of development cooperation. We have done this with Burundi before. The evaluation is now in progress. We need to make an analysis on the basis of facts. Business as usual is also not possible in relation to the new government and we need to review our relationship. Specific questions were asked about the new Prime Minister and his nationality. The Congolese government and authorities have told us that they will give up their Belgian nationality. I guess he'll take the steps in that direction. I have not yet been given more details on this. As far as the situation of the Belgians is concerned, I would like to go back to a few points. For our compatriots, I would like to recall the message that I had the opportunity to launch by modifying our travel notices: we must really give up any journey to the Congo today! It would take compelling reasons to get there. If this was the case, you should contact our services, register on the department's website by following the procedure explained on Travellers Online and contact our embassy or consulates. For all those who are in the Congo, I think it is time to leave the country, and certainly during this end-of-year period. Many already do so on this occasion, and no risk should be taken. However, if we count 4,000 to 4,500 Belgians in the Congo and probably 3,000 in Kinshasa alone and a thousand in Katanga, we must realize that so far, apart from actions against journalists who have been expelled or denied visas for military personnel, there have been no real actions against the Belgians. It should be recalled that, even if in neighbouring countries, very hard calls and comments were made to the Belgian community and authorities; this is not the case in the Congo. I will not dwell further on the situation of Belgians in the Congo today. I can tell you that we have done everything possible to create optimal conditions if we have to intervene in one way or another. We are working with the Defence in this area and all requests have been addressed to the Congolese authorities. In conclusion, and with regard to the sanctions mentioned by many, you know that I am trying to use this approach in a firm but also cautious manner. There is no point in taking initiatives exclusively from Belgium without the support of the European Union in particular. We have obtained from the latter that it is moving towards individual sanctions on 12 December against seven officials in charge of the security services. Of course we can go further. During my last visit to Kinshasa, I was the first to say that individual responsibility was at the level of the authorities. This concerns not only the sanctions on travel and visas, as well as the freezing of assets, but also possible prosecutions. There will be no impunity. The acts committed in September resulted in sanctions. Those committed today will have to be assessed and, probably, be the subject of steps to combat impunity. For the assets, I repeat, we take note of a whole series of information, but it is up to our justice, as in the Department of Finance, to take a number of initiatives. It is not excluded that decisions should be taken on this subject, at European level, and at international level. In conclusion, today we realize that the situation is particularly serious. We are obliged to make every effort to protect our fellow citizens on the spot. But we must also influence the course of events in the Congo. Indeed, many citizens of that country would like a genuine democratic transition, the establishment of good governance and, finally, a proper distribution of the property of a country, particularly provided with natural wealth, and in a range of other areas. So it is very important for us to go in that direction. Perhaps we should impose sanctions or seek other ways of exerting great pressure on the Congo. In addition, good cooperation between the European Union and the African Union is needed to give a new direction to Congo. This means that next year, if possible, there will be presidential elections and perhaps also parliamentary elections. Next year, and not in two or three years' time, is the target. Furthermore, if the country is to be properly managed, better governance is needed. I hope that will be possible. But I do not hide that the anxiety is very great for the hours, days and weeks to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u42	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. I can join you on most points. I really hope that the final steps taken by the bishops, during the last few days before Christmas, can succeed, even if I am rather pessimistic. Bloomberg's particularly detailed and interesting analysis shows that Joseph Kabila will probably try to hang on for a long time. He has taken such a benefit from his presidency of the Congo, he has amassed and he continues to amass so much wealth that it is difficult to imagine that he will give up this presidency. In my opinion, money is his weak spot. It is therefore by means of his assets, by freezing them, by means of the wealth that he has probably amassed in Belgium that one must try to have it. It is also through travel that one must try to have it. We know how strongly the Congolese government reacted when you began to reduce the validity of certain visas. Moreover, it makes no sense to continue bilateral cooperation with a country whose leader has accumulated more than a century of wealth in bilateral cooperation. We need to transform the latter and work much more with civil society. Finally, as far as the question of criminal prosecution is concerned, as long as Mr Badibanga is Belgian, he must be aware that, under Belgian law, certain crimes may be punished, even outside the borders of Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u43	Mr President, the minister, indeed, there are difficult days ahead for the Congolese and Congolese. In this context, in order to avoid bloodshed, the slogan in Kinshasa is "Kabila must leave". We've already discussed it, but Kabila should also talk about it. If Joseph Kabila announced today that he was not representing himself, this would already significantly reduce pressure and reduce political pressure. So Kabila has to talk too. As Belgians and Democrats, we must continue to support the peaceful initiatives of the opposition. It's very important. So much is the question of punishing – and we will do so – the initiatives of the power in the matter of repression, if the opposition began to take warlike initiatives, it would also be a matter of denouncing them. I will end by saying to the Congolese Democrats – we know that they are listening to us – that the Belgian Democrats are at their side, the majority and the opposition combined. It's a strong message we're sending them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u44	Thank you for your clear answer, Minister. Congo is and remains a priority in your foreign policy. We welcome this, but that does not mean that we should be watching what is happening there today and what is still to be done in the next few days. The situation is deteriorating. Internationally, historically, Belgium was always looked at. Today, too, we are expected to play a leading role in the international approach. I am thinking here of sanctions and placing the problem on the international agenda. Minister, I encourage you to continue to do so, so that we can work together with the international community to create a democratic republic worthy of that name. Above all, we must prevent the Congo from slipping into a dictatorial banana republic.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for your full answer. Diplomatic relations are a bit like sincere friendships. It's about being there in the right, but also in the wrong moments. Unfortunately, I fear that the DRC, with the obstinacy of a part of its political class, will move towards isolation and take a dangerous path that could be left out, as we see today in Burundi. Unfortunately, the first victims of such situations and of such challenges to the rule of law are the people. Our country cannot abandon people and civil society. I remain convinced that, in this matter, our country must remain a leading player. We are indeed counting on your diplomacy. I would like to reiterate that the Belgian section of the IPU Belgium-DRC, which I chair, is available. We are also at your disposal. We have a role to play because, as you, and you have recalled in committee, I believe very strongly in parliamentary diplomacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u46	Minister, Kabila has indeed started his third term of office this week. I can only repeat that we cannot see it as the start of a third non-legislative mandate. You are right to point out that the situation is particularly serious. The Congolese citizen will miss the chance here of what is the essence of democracy, namely that there is transition and that the citizen himself can change something. That means democracy. Well, that opportunity is now being taken away from him. Congo is entitled to a future without Kabila. You say that cooperation is being reviewed. In fact, we have to ask ourselves clearly which country we are going with. With a country where corruption is so widespread, where democracy is so trampled on? How do we proceed with that? Until today, you have made a correct course, Minister. We hope that you will continue to act very consistently and that you will commit to development cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u47	Thank you, Minister, for your good answer. It is good that the government continues its efforts and continues to exert pressure on the Congolese regime. Four elements are important. Firstly, it must be an inclusive dialogue. Secondly, human rights must be protected by individual sanctions as soon as irregularities occur. Thirdly, there must be a perspective for presidential elections. Fourthly, development cooperation must be reviewed. We must distance ourselves from the government and support civil society, the civil movements that exist today and the NGOs. That is the only way not to let Congo fall under the power hunger of one person who would drag the entire African continent into its wake. There are nine fragile countries around the Congo that many people are threatening to flee to. This would destabilize the region. It is therefore very important that we intervene and remain very attentive. You rightly said that there is a bright spot in Congo. There are many young Congolese, members of Lucha and Filimba, who fight peacefully on the streets. It is important that we support these people and give them hope for a peaceful and happy Congo.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u48	Minister, having heard this morning's reactions from the social partners to a proposed merger between INAMI and the Public Health FPS, I have reread the government agreement. I found it: "It will be examined how the health-related activities of FPS Public Health can be integrated into INAMI. The organisation of health policy and health insurance administrations will be streamlined and merged into a single policy". Last March, in response to a question that Mr Di Rupo asked you, you stated that your plan to rationalise administrations would not lead to a merger, but rather to better harmonisation and collaboration between the institutions. In your policy note for 2017, there is a discussion of the possible creation of a federal health service. There would now be a clear discussion of a merger between INAMI and the Public Health FPS. The social partners are concerned. They fear that they will be excluded from health policy in the context of such a reform. Minister, I'm asking you three questions. Are you considering a partial or total merger of the competent health authorities as well as between INAMI and the Public Health FPS? Will the role of the social partners be called into question in this reform? Will the social partners be consulted on the measures you are preparing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u49	Mrs Caprasse, thank you for your question. As you said, the government agreement provides for health care provisions on redesign. With regard to the relationship between knowledge institutions, the establishment of the Institute of the Future and the relationship between the health care competencies of INAMI and the Public Health FPS, over the past two years, we have consulted with the senior officials of the various health and care institutions as well as the managers and stakeholders of these institutions. This consultation resulted in a vision note that was approved by the government. This note contains several projects, some of which have already been implemented. In particular, a management committee has been set up. There are regular discussions of common themes among senior officials from different institutions. One of the projects was to conduct an opportunity, feasibility and impact analysis for the possible creation of an integrated health administration. To this end, a consortium of consultants has been appointed under the direction of the Boston Consulting Group. They are currently finalizing this report. A first discussion took place last week with senior officials on the main observations and recommendations; and yesterday, with stakeholders, for example the social partners. The next step is the transmission of the Boston Consulting Group report. I do not intend to anticipate the results of the report. First of all, I would like to be able to discuss this report in close consultation with senior officials and stakeholders. I would also like to consult with myself in the government. It is on the basis of this substantive consultation that political decisions will be taken concerning the establishment of an integrated institute or other possible avenues. The vision note also mentions that, whatever the final option, joint social and medico-social consultation will always have to be respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u50	Madam Minister, your comments support me. As long as there is consultation with the political representatives and with the representatives of the various unions, it is comforting. I really hope that this will go in this direction and that we can have all the reports on what will be decided in the future. We are still concerned about the risks of a division of certain health sectors, as was the case with family allowances following the sixth reform of the State. It was a first opening. We are very attentive to all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u51	Mr President, Minister, after many trips, the smart cash register gradually settles in the landscape of the Belgian Horeca, with encouraging results. Indeed, according to the Flemish federation of the sector, the white box has really allowed a reversal of the trend in the field of black work. But there are still problems, one of which is that many restaurateurs are not in order, at various levels. While many of them have acquired the machine, have registered with the FPS Finances, many of them have not connected their cash register and therefore continue to fraud. Minister, are you aware of this particular problem, which obviously distorts competition between those who have been good students and those who are not? Those who have played the game therefore feel doubly penalized and feel that they have been trapped. A third element that I think is important to point out to you is that some representatives of the sector urge their members not to connect on the pretext that there would be illegality in the organisation of controls. They have even drawn up a standard letter to submit to the controllers when they come to their restaurant. What do you think of this process? How are you going to counter it in practice? How many restaurateurs would have opposed the controls? You are aware that an appeal has been brought before the Council of State. Are you considering changing the terms and conditions? And to conclude with a positive note, I would like to welcome the fact that 3,000 checks have been carried out since July, when you were planning only 2,000 checks. This is an improvement. Having said that, I would like an answer to my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u52	Mrs de Coster-Bauchau, first of all, I would like to confirm that the figures mentioned in the newspapers, relating to the number of smart banks and the number of checks, are correct. In addition, there are taxpayers who have a cash register system, although in principle they are not obliged to do so under current legislation, but according to the old legislation - with 10% - or because they have voluntarily chosen to equip themselves. These taxpayers comply with the regulations in order to be able to benefit from the measures and benefits associated with the use of the CES. The FPS Finance's task is to ensure that legislation is respected in order to maintain the same rules of the game for all. Controls are very targeted; I can assure you. Indeed, the FPS Finances has a fairly clear vision of the horeca establishments that need to have a smart cashier but that are not yet in order. As regards controls, at the beginning of this month approximately 3 000 checks were carried out; 1 166 in Flanders, 1 234 in Wallonia and 603 in Brussels. During these checks, it was found that 667 establishments in Flanders, 953 in Wallonia and 447 in Brussels were not in order for various reasons, including the absence of smart banks or their incorrect use. If we group all the figures together and assume that all the controlled establishments have settled down, there remain about 1,400 of the 17,470 establishments (about 8%) that still have to comply with the regulations. The sector's criticism that there are not enough controls, therefore, does not seem to me to be very well founded. Finally, I come to your question on the proceedings before the Council of State. This will most likely take place in February. I cannot therefore move on to this point, but I honestly see no reason why adjustments would be necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u53	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am pleased to know that the controls have been diligently carried out by SPF Finances, but I insist on checking the connection of this smart box to the server, since this is clearly where the distortion would be located. I invite parliamentarians who will have the opportunity to go to a restaurant during the end-of-year holidays to check and ask for the check-in ticket that corresponds to the one that must be issued when the smart box is connected to the server. This will value those who play the game and act responsibly in this sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u54	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in detecting or combating terrorist activities, but also in investigating other crimes, such as paedophilia and drugs, the police and the courts almost always resort to the data from the communication of criminals. So one can see who was true, which people he communicated with and when. Yesterday, however, we took note of a very far-reaching judgment of the European Court of Justice, which could have a major impact on the fight against crime. The Court states that a general retention obligation of data data is contrary to the right to privacy. Minister, we have recently amended our Belgian legislation, following partial destruction by a judgment of the Constitutional Court. This new legislation keeps all data for 12 months, but restricts access according to the type of crime. Nevertheless, people in the field, including investigators, are concerned about the fight against such crime. They claim that by analysing the data they can easily detect suspects and their network. It is difficult to expect researchers to know in advance who will commit a particular crime. Minister, we all know that privacy is an important right, but security is of course just as much, especially in times of terror. We have only just received the investigators in our committee of inquiry. They have pointed out to us that they already no longer have access to the data of potential data subjects in the Paris attacks on 13 November. So we have to weigh privacy against security. I believe that the legislation recently amended by our Parliament contains sufficient guarantees to guarantee privacy. Mr Minister, first of all, what impact will this judgment have on our Belgian criminal investigations? Secondly, do you guarantee that researchers will still be able to do their work?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u55	Mr President, I am glad to be able to question a Cd&V Minister because this is really a dossier on the one hand and on the other. On the one hand, the great concern we need for security, on the other hand, the right to privacy. The judgment of the European Court of Justice states that the data held by the telecom operators cannot be accessed without reason, but that there must be a link with serious crime. A great deal is kept over us, such as with whom we correspond, when we correspond and where we find ourselves. Of course, what we are saying must not be simply stored. Privacy is very important. Digital traces, however, facilitate criminal investigation. It is a tool to fight crime and terrorism. This puts us in a strange situation. The road to information that can easily be obtained through databases, which are also built for billing, would be closed. But to investigate more difficult things like encrypted messages in darknet, Tor and all kinds of advanced apps in depth, we have no resources in the short term. That puts us in a difficult position. Not only does a database cost a lot of money, but it also raises the question of how we can find a balance in this area. For years, I have been pleading in this Chamber for a database that offers very strong guarantees and has been developed in a uniform and controlled manner. Moreover, it was also the frustration of the operators, who did not really have assistance at the time when all this had to be set up in the past, it was a uniform way of consulting by telephone and fax which would be properly compensated. Each search of the database must be linked to a correct tracking, a proper accountability, which can be checked afterwards and which shows why the database was consulted. It is good that we will be able to use this data further. The legislation in Belgium is also not comparable to that in Sweden or the United Kingdom, which was initially the case in yesterday's judgment. Minister, some authorities believe that this judgment will allow Belgian legislation to be amended. How do you see the impact of this? I am also thinking of the consequences for the fight against crime. How does the court now request the data from the telecom operators? Can't this be more standardized, cheaper, not per performance? Are controls already in place to check whether the search of the database was justified?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u56	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are all convinced that we must fight against crime and terrorism. We may even have to step it up in order to protect our security, our lives and thus our freedom. One of these freedoms, Minister, is precisely the right to privacy. We do not want, nor can we tolerate, the public authorities sniffing into the private lives of innocent citizens, but there is a criminal offence, who loses that right and cannot rely on it. It is then necessary to check someone's movements and to investigate contacts, among other things. In order to do so, the investigation services need tools, which you have made available together with Parliament. We have adopted the data retention law here. This is a law that is in line with the principles of the European Court of Justice and our Constitution, namely that when we infringe privacy, this must be proportionate and necessary. It is with that right balance that we have provided instruments in the fight against terror. Minister, you will no doubt have heard the investigators this morning. As my fellow Members have said, they are concerned by a very recent judgment of the European Court of Justice. I understand their concerns and I am also concerned about the maintenance of our research methods and our fight against serious crime. Minister, we must place the judgment in its context: it concerned Sweden and the United Kingdom, countries that have not yet amended their legislation. We have done so, proportionately and in a portable manner. Minister, what impact do you see of the judgment on Belgian law? Can you confirm that the amendments to the legislation, as we have done, largely respond to the concerns expressed in the judgment of the European Court of Justice? Can you confirm that the fight against crime and terror can continue undisturbed, even after the arrest?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u57	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, Mrs Van Cauter, Mr Deseyn, the European Court of Justice did indeed deliver a judgment yesterday, in a Swedish-British case, which provides answers to a number of questions for a preliminary ruling. There is no doubt that the judgment has an important value. This was also the case with the judgment of the European Court of Justice in 2014, which was later followed by the judgment of our Constitutional Court in 2015. I would like to take the time to examine and determine in detail the scope of the judgment. It is important to know that the Advocate General had not questioned the principle of data retention at the European Court of Justice. It is therefore necessary to consider twice before quickly concluding that the court would have taken a completely different view. I have asked my services to contact our neighbouring countries, which are facing the same problems, as regards the interpretation of that new judgment. I would remind you that the European Court of Justice allows operators to keep data for many years on a voluntary basis, for marketing purposes, without disturbing anyone. In any case, we may request this information in accordance with our special detection methods, with the consent of the required judicial authorities. The objective of compulsory detention in our current law is simply not to make criminal investigations dependent on the commercial strategy and marketing strategy of the operators, otherwise we are entirely dependent on them. I would point out that the privacy committee and the Council of State have declared our new law of May 2016 waterproof. In other words, Belgium has done its homework thoroughly in this area. If I stress that if the judgment of the European Court of Justice would have the effect of restricting the retention obligation to some of the users, then we will have to think very deeply, because, as you have pointed out, that is a particularly difficult issue, which could make data profiling and stigmatisation necessary. That is really very difficult. In this sense, I remain convinced that we should try to avoid this, if possible. The investigation of the attacks of 22 March is a clear example of the need for general data retention, regardless of the pre-existing profile. I will do everything I can to find an adequate solution, if necessary a slight amendment of the law if that is necessary. This will happen quickly, but not in haste, in consultation with neighbouring countries and, if possible, at the level of the European Council, where I have already raised the issue under the Luxembourg and Dutch Presidencies, after the judgment of our Constitutional Court forced us to amend Belgian legislation. Security and freedom, freedom and security, with privacy; are priority. I will do everything I can to ensure that this is done as well as possible. It certainly does not have any impact on the ongoing investigations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u58	Minister, I think we are on the same page. You will investigate the judgment further and we await the outcome of your investigation. I am, of course, counting on you to do everything in your power to ensure that all criminal investigations are conducted efficiently. I hope that everyone, including the League for Human Rights, who has already announced once again that they will take a case before the Constitutional Court, will find reasonableness. After all, security is, of course, also a human right.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We must be aware that digital trails have already contributed a great deal to solving crime and terrorism. Criminals make full use of communication technology. The police and the judiciary must be able to fight with equal weapons; that is what this is about. It is not just a question of proving someone's guilt, because these data can also form the basis for proving someone's innocence. You're right to say that we can't know in advance if anyone's suspicious. The collected data, according to policemen and investigators, leads us exactly to a suspect. So the logical order cannot be reversed. We are, of course, asking for the public's confidence in such a database, in centralised storage. For this reason, I once again call for a strong control of how, when and by whom this database is consulted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u60	Mr President, Minister, I would like to hear you say that freedom and security go hand in hand and that you are not giving up the fight for either. I hope that after reading this judgment after sportsman you should not be a ballet dancer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u61	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since 31 March 2014, all new mopeds must be registered. In order to be able to register mopeds already in circulation before that date, a regularisation period began on 11 December 2015, for a period of one year. However, as of 11 December, many mopeds have not yet been registered. You have therefore decided to introduce a new regularisation period in order to allow the various moped holders to put themselves in order. It is indeed necessary that all mopeds operating in Belgium be registered in order to effectively combat various frauds, but also in order to better prosecute possible infringements, which will also improve safety on our roads. How many mopeds were in circulation in Belgium before March 31, 2014? How many were registered during the first regularization period? How have these holders been informed during the previous regularization period and how will they be informed now? When will this new period of regularization begin? What steps should be taken to regularize these mopeds?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to avoid any amalgam: every new moped must be registered and there is no problem to date in doing so. Since mopeds were not to be registered by 31 March 2014, we had to provide for a regularization procedure and a period ending on 11 December. At the end of 2015, on the basis of the number of mopeds insured, the estimated number of mopeds to be registered was 200,000. In one year, only 70,000 mopeds have been regularized. So there are 130,000 in circulation that are not in order. In order to inform citizens of this registration obligation and of this regularisation period, the DIV carried out three major waves of communication from the end of 2015 and during 2016, which included a web page, posters and flyers available in post offices, press releases, messages to DIV partners such as insurers, DIV flash info, the sending of a communication kit to all secondary and higher schools, the League of Families, parents' associations, auto-schools, driving licence centres, cities and municipalities, police zones, business federations. This is an extensive communication campaign that clearly did not encourage the 130,000 motorcycle holders not yet in order to do so. The IVD has affected, indirectly, 4,000 Dutch-speaking contacts and 3,000 Francophones. Approximately 250,000 people have been affected via social networks. At the request of the Mobility FPS, I agreed to extend the regularization period by one year, but this will be the last time. Every person who rides with a moped must assume his or her responsibilities and get in order quickly. The new period of regularisation will begin shortly with the publication of the royal decree. A communication will be launched on the same channels as the previous one.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u63	Mr Minister, I thank you for these clarifications, hoping that those concerned will declare themselves and be in order quickly. I will conclude by wishing all those present a good holiday at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u64	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u65	The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u66	Mr President, I refer to my written report unless you insist that I read it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u67	Mr Van Biesen, your report is excellent and you rightly refer to it. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. The vote on the 2015 accounts, the 2016 budget adjustment and the 2017 budgets of the Chamber of Representatives and the funding of the political parties will take place later. The vote on the 2015 accounts, the 2016 budget adjustment and the 2017 budgets of the House of Representatives and the financing of political parties will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u68	The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u69	Mr President, I would like to refer again to the detailed written report, which is on the benches.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u70	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u71	Mr President, in the Committee on Accounting on the budgets of the various institutions you have just mentioned, namely the Court of Auditors, the Ombudsman, the P Committee and other bodies advising Parliament, we abstained. We abstained, since we find that in recent years these important bodies have been asked to draw on their reservations. This system is coming to an end and potentially undermines their independence and their ability to work effectively in the service of parliament, sometimes also as a counter-power, somewhere, when the Court of Auditors criticizes the budget or, in any case, sheds light on certain weaknesses in the budget proposed by the government or when the Council of State challenges the legal validity of certain texts. We believe that every power needs counter-power and that it is healthy for our parliament to subsidise – that is what it is – the bodies that advise it and that we must not continue this logic, which, at one point, prevents these bodies from working in a full, complete and independent manner. The abstention that we have put forward and that we will confirm is a signal to that effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u72	Mr President, I am partly in agreement with Mr Gilkinet in the sense that I made this point during the discussions in the Comparability Committee. At the start of this legislature, all these institutions were asked to save 2% annually. We have to note that in the budget this saving is not applied in the same way to all the institutions. Apparently, there are institutions that have more than enough to make ends meet in the coming years and they should not make savings, while other institutions, which are very hard to cope with and which are likely to be able to keep their heads above water in 2017, will have to make savings. In that committee, I believe we have been able to conclude that there is a need for a thorough debate on all these institutions. We need to look very closely at which institutions seem to have to take much more action while others are actually being over-subsidised. You yourself have argued for such a debate, Mr President. I hope that this debate will be organised as soon as possible because there is no point in waiting for budgetary control. We know what problems arise. I hope that all the Members of this committee will finally be present, because you yourself have to admit that there is very little enthusiasm for that committee. Apparently, people are not interested in these important institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u73	Mr President, on the budgets of the entities in question, I understand that there are opinions. In my personal capacity, I have taken the trouble of being present at all hearings of these entities. On behalf of my group, we finally approved the draft budgets with a question mark which I formulated in the Accounting Committee. I would like to take this opportunity to remind you in plenary session: we are on the line, at the limit, for some of these entities because special circumstances sometimes lead to extremely large increases in work which must be dealt with with with somewhat limited means. On Christmas Eve and before we get excited with all the possible ideas – I've read several things, interesting and uninteresting, in the press in recent hours – we're going to limit ourselves today to voting on the budget of the entities with them. We will certainly have an interesting debate in the Accounting Committee. However, it must be admitted, even room 1 is large enough, or even the ambassadors' room, so many of us were. Yet these issues are important because they are endowed entities that have a fundamental democratic responsibility for our country. I therefore hope that there will be at least as much interest in the coming weeks as what I heard today at this committee's meeting and in the reflections that we will have to have if we were to imagine, at some point, mergers between certain bodies for purely budgetary reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that I have not been able to attend all the meetings, but I have attended a number of them. What do we determine? Indeed, as my fellow Members say, the problem has been solved by 2017, both for the P Committee and for the privacy committee. But, Mr President, you have seen with us that in the coming years there will really be a problem for different institutions. I would therefore ask you to hold a meeting with the committee and the institutions as early as January to see how we can resolve this. We knew about this last year. Last year, some institutions pointed out to us that there would be problems. We did the same as this year: we made sure that there was a solution for 2016. We are doing this again for 2017. We won't be able to do that before 2018. Mr President, I would ask you to convene the committee in January so that we have a few months to find an effective solution for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that I have been rapporteur for this committee work five or six times over the past decade, so I have seen all the discussions on this subject. The first decision that we all took together was to first exploit all the reserves of the institutions concerned in order to be able to reflect the correct budgets and to counter the system of accumulated reserves. That decision has paid off in recent years, I believe. It is true that some institutions are at their limits, but let us look at that. I'm not inclined to argue for a quick handling. I would remind you, for example, that in its report in September, the privacy committee indicated that there was a major problem, amounting to EUR 1.5 million, while six weeks later it came to say that it has a surplus for the coming year which is fundamentally greater than the deficit it itself had announced! If EUR 6 million is misreported at EUR 1.5 million, it is worth looking at that clearly and honestly. Therefore, Mr President, your proposal to carry out more internal audits in order to collect clearer and more accurate figures will help us make the right decisions in 2017. There will have to be adjustments for a number of institutions which will no longer have any reserves. Let us do things calmly and in all serenity and with the right figures. Let us also stop making statements in the press, as I heard this morning, that the independence of the institutions concerned would be at risk. This is certainly not the case for 2017. That is not the wish of all those who sit around the table in the Comparability Committee. I have not heard from any of my colleagues that it is the wish or the intention to jeopardise the independence of these institutions. That is why I say, in all clarity and serenity, that we must make decisions on the basis of the correct figures, so that we no longer experience such great differences as this year. A budget difference of almost 25% is a great deal. We have already experienced a great deal in Parliament, but such a difference is particularly great.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u76	Mr President, I regret Mr Van Biesen's speech. She has already indicated that we will no longer be able to conduct the debate in serene terms. Mr Van Biesen, the privacy committee has explained very clearly in committee how there is a difference. The privacy committee has not implemented the planned recruitment that should take place, also in view of the changes in Europe. There's the difference. She should have recruited additional staff. You are here to tell us once again that we have had the discussion on this in committee and you do not want to repeat it. Well, then, don't. Let us take the debate seriously and not play political games, as you are doing now, Mr Van Biesen. I repeat my proposal to come together with the committee in January and see what the problems will be for the future. We have plenty of time to solve them by 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u77	Mr President, I quite agree with what Mr Temmerman has just said, but we have been used to Mr Temerman's caricatural developments. Van Biesen. Mr Van Biesen, are you still aware of the fact that a number of bodies that are very important for the democratic control of our country have been confronted with special situations in recent months? You're informed, though? Indeed, five years ago, the common of mortals did not know what the P and R Committees were. Today, he knows. They are, respectively, a monitoring body of our police services and a monitoring body of our intelligence services. Faced with difficulties, these people tell us that they need a minimum of financial and human resources to carry out their democratic functions. That doesn't seem abnormal to me. I had hoped that on Christmas Eve, your thoughts would be less caricatural. Unfortunately, that is not the case. I wanted to make it clear on behalf of my group.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u78	Mr President, I am pleased to have launched this debate because the vote that we are going to take is not insignificant. As I have said and would like to repeat, particularly for Mr. Van Biesen, all power needs a counter-power. We are coming out of a meeting of the Kasakhgate Commission, which will have to study, among other things, the role of our naturalization intelligence services. It is necessary for the R Committee to be able to supervise their work, possibly criticise it. He offered to come and testify before the commission. To do so, we must give it the means. To press these bodies more and more, to make them dependent on Parliament's budgetary decisions, not to give them the flexibility to organise themselves, or to have the equipment and the staff necessary to do their job properly, is to put our democracy at risk. Our Parliament is honoured to fund these oversight and advisory bodies. We must not lose sight of him.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u79	I would like to make two comments. Firstly, this is for the sake of the report............................................................................................................................................................. That's actually true. One can see that. In addition, I intend to convene the Accounting Committee at the end of January, probably, to see what can be done. Indeed, the task is not easy. This implies a change in the system and, no doubt, a change in the law. We will have to take the time to carry out this work, if possible within the framework of a consensus. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. The vote on the 2015 accounts, the 2016 budgetary adjustments and the 2017 budget proposals will take place later. The vote on the 2015 accounts, the 2016 budget adjustments and the 2017 budget proposals will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u80	Mr Dallemagne asked that his legislative proposal (Mr Georges Dallemagne and Mrs Vanessa Matz) introducing an Article 458b into the Criminal Code be removed from the draft law amending the legal status of detainees and the supervision of prisons and laying down various provisions on justice, Nos 1914/1 and 11. Mr. Dallemagne asked that his bill (Mr. Georges Dallemagne and Ms. Vanessa Matz) inserting article 458ter into the Criminal Code, lifting professional secrecy in the event of knowledge of information relating to the serious danger of terrorist offences, Nos. 1914/1 and 2, be disjunct from the bill amending the legal status of detainees and the supervision of prisons and introducing various provisions in the field of justice, Nos. 1986/1 to 11. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u81	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 December 2016 and with the application of Article 29 (1) of the Act of 8 December 1992 on the protection of privacy with regard to the processing of personal data, I propose that, at the request of Mr Raf Terwingen, the Commission's opinion on the text of the legislative proposal (Mr Raf Terwingen, Ms Sonja Becq and Mr Gilles Foret and Mr Philippe Goffin) on the processing of personal data by the Federal Public Service of Justice in the context of the execution of custodial sentences and measures of liberty and the management of the establishments in which such implementation takes place, No. 2194/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 December 2016 and pursuant to Article 29, § 1, of the Law of 8 December 1992 on the protection of privacy with regard to the processing of personal data, I propose that, at the request of Mr Raf Terwingen, you seek the opinion of the Committee on the Protection of Privacy on the text of the bill (Mr Raf Terwingen, Ms Sonja Becq and Messrs. Gilles Foret and Philippe Goffin) concerning the processing of personal data by the Federal Public Service Justice in the context of the enforcement of sentences and custodial measures and the management of institutions in which such execution is carried out, No 2194/1. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u82	By letter dated 7 December 2016, Mr Steven De Luyck announced that he would resign as a member of the local police of the Supervisory Body on the police information. By letter of 7 December 2016, Mr Steven De Luyck reported that he resigned as a member of the local police of the Police Information Review Body. The Chamber should therefore appoint a new Dutch-speaking member of the local police of the Supervisory Body to replace Mr Steven De Luyck. The Chamber must therefore proceed to the appointment of a new Dutch-speaking member of the local police of the Supervisory Body to replace Mr. Steven De Luyck. The plenary session of 24 April 2014 decided to apply gender parity by category. Mr Steven De Luyck should therefore be replaced by someone of the same sex. The plenary session of 24 April 2014 decided to apply gender parity by category. Mr. Steven De Luyck must therefore be replaced by a member of the same sex. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 December 2016, a call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal will be published for the mandate of male Dutch speaking member of the local police of the Supervisory Body on police information. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 December 2016, a call for candidates will be published in the Belgian Moniteur for the term of office of Dutch-speaking male member of the local police of the Police Information Review Body. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u83	By letter dated 12 December 2016, Mr Yves Keppens, president of the P Committee, announced that he would be admitted to the statutory pension on 1 January 2017. By letter of 12 December 2016, Mr Yves Keppens, Chairman of the P Committee, communicated that as of 1 January 2017 he would be admitted to the legal pension. Mr Yves Keppens was appointed Chairman by the plenary session on 22 December 2011 and took the oath on 5 January 2012. His mandate therefore basically runs until 4 January 2018. Yves Keppens was appointed by the plenary session of December 22, 2011 and was sworn in on January 5, 2012. His term of office therefore expires in principle on 4 January 2018. Article 6, third paragraph, of the Law of 18 July 1991 regulating the supervision of police and intelligence services and The Coordination Body for the Threat Analysis shall provide that "the member whose mandate expires before the expiry of the six-year period shall be replaced by his first alternate for the remainder of the term of office and, if he fails to do so, by his second alternate'. The third paragraph of Article 6 of the Law of 18 July 1991 on the Control of Police and Intelligence Services and of the Coordinating Body for Threat Analysis stipulates that "the member whose term of office ends before the expiry of the six-year term shall be replaced, for a new term of six years, by his first alternate and, if he renounces it, by his second alternate". At the plenary session of 29 March 2012, Ms Johanna Erard was appointed first alternate president. By e-mail dated 16 December 2016, she accepted to exercise the President's mandate. She will take the oath in the hands of the President of the Chamber on Tuesday 10 January 2017. Johanna Erard was elected as the first alternate chair during the plenary session on 29 March 2012. By e-mail dated December 16, 2016, she agreed to serve as President. She will be sworn in by the Speaker on Tuesday, January 10, 2017. The third paragraph of Article 6 of the said Act also provides that "in the event of the opening of an alternate member's seat... the Chamber of Representatives shall immediately appoint a new alternate member'. Article 6, third paragraph, of the above-mentioned Act also stipulates that "In the event of the vacancy of an alternate member, the House of Representatives (...) shall without delay appoint a new alternate". The Chamber should therefore appoint a new first deputy chairman. The House must therefore appoint a new first deputy Speaker. The term of office of second vice-president has also not been fulfilled. Indeed, the calls for candidates in the Belgian Official Journal of 26 April 2012 and 18 June 2012 did not yield any applications. The term of office of second alternate president is also still vacant, since no nominations were made for the candidates who appeared in the Moniteur belge on 26 April 2012 and 18 June 2012. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 December 2016, I propose that you publish an appeal to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for both the mandate of the first and the mandate of the second deputy chairman. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 December 2016, I propose that you publish a call for candidates to the Belgian Moniteur for both the term of office of first and the term of second deputy president. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u84	The next item is the secret ballot for the appointment of non-notaries of the Notarial Appointment Committees. The next item is the ballot for the appointment of the actual non-notary members of the Committees of Appointment for the Notariat. In accordance with Article 38 of the Law of 25 Ventôse year XI in the notary office, the Chamber must appoint non-notaries of the Dutch-speaking appointment committee and the French-speaking appointment committee for the notaryate. These members shall be appointed for a period of four years and every two years the terms of office of half of the members and alternates shall be renewed. Pursuant to Article 38 of the Law of 25 Ventôse an XI containing organization of the notariat, the House of Representatives must appoint the non-notary members of the commission of appointment in the French language and of the commission of appointment in the Dutch language for the notariat. These members shall be appointed for a period of four years; the terms of office of half of the actual and alternate members shall be renewed every two years. Each committee shall consist of eight working and eight alternate members. Each committee has eight effective members and eight alternate members. The working and alternate members of non-notaries shall be appointed by the Chamber of Representatives with a two-thirds majority of the votes cast, from the following three categories: - one magistrate, - one lecturer or professor of law; - two external members with professional experience relevant to the contract. The actual and non-notary alternate members shall be appointed by the House of Representatives by a two-thirds majority of the votes cast, from among the following three categories: - a magistrate; - a lecturer or a professor of law; - two external members with professional experience useful for the mission. At least one member of the French-speaking appointment committee must provide proof of the knowledge of German. Since a member notary already provides this evidence, the Chamber is not obliged to appoint a member with knowledge of German. At least one member of the French-language appointment board or an alternate must be able to demonstrate knowledge of German. Since this condition has already been fulfilled for the notary members of this committee, the Chamber is not obliged to appoint a member who knows German. As a transitional provision, Article 2 of the Law of 20 May 2016 amending the Law of 27 April 2016 amending the Law of 25 Ventôse year XI in the notarial office provided that, at the first re-conciliation after the entry into force of this Law, half of the members are appointed for a period of two years. As a transitional measure, it is stipulated - in Article 2 of the Law of 20 May 2016 amending the Law of 27 April 2016 amending the Law of 25 Ventôse an XI containing organization of the notariat - that at the first composition after the entry into force of this Law, half of the members will be appointed for a term of two years. A two-year term of office shall be granted to one of the working members referred to in Article 38, paragraph 4, paragraph 3, and to one of the working members referred to in Article 38, paragraph 4, paragraph 1, paragraph 5, or to one of the working members referred to in Article 38, paragraph 4, paragraph 5, (i.e. to one external member). A term of office of two years shall be granted to one of the effective members referred to in the first paragraph of Article 38(4), 3° and 4° (either to a member of the categories'magistrate' or 'teacher or lecturer') and to one of the effective members referred to in the first paragraph of Article 38(4), 5° (or to an external member). Mr Philippe Gysbergs (N), Mr Stefaan Rutten (N), Mr Geert Vervaeke (N), Mr François Dubois (F), Mr Bernard Garcez (F), Mr Patrick Gielen (F) and Mr Damien Jans (F), Mrs Stéphanie Mees (F) and Mr Olivier Michiels (F). The following persons applied for a two-year term: MM. Philippe Gysbergs (N), Stefaan Rutten (N), Geert Vervaeke (N), François Dubois (F), Bernard Garcez (F), Patrick Gielen (F) and Damien Jans (F), Stéphanie Mees (F) and Olivier Michiels (F). The applications were announced at the plenary session of 10 November 2016. Nominations were announced in plenary on November 10, 2016. The list of candidates has been distributed under No. 2230/1. The list of candidates has been circulated under No. 2230/1. You received a ballot with the names of the Dutch-speaking candidates and the French-speaking candidates. You have received a ballot containing the names of the French-speaking and Dutch-speaking candidates. In order to vote, one has to place a cross in the box opposite the names of the chosen candidates. Vote notes with more votes than there are mandates are invalid. A vote should be taken by drawing a cross in the box opposite the names of the selected candidates. Ballot papers containing more votes than there are warrants to be filled shall be void. As the vote is secret, the ballots must not be signed. Due to the secret nature of the ballot, ballot papers cannot be signed. First we have to put together one or two desks of voters by drawing lots. Each bureau shall be composed of four members. I propose, however, that the last two Members who have taken their seats at the Bureau today should be nominated for the vote. We must first draw lots from one or two offices of deputy returning officers, each composed of four members, who will be responsible for the counting. I suggest, however, that you appoint the two youngest members to the bureau this day to take the ballots. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. The ladies Yoleen Van Camp and Nawal Ben Hamou are appointed to record the votes. Ms. Yoleen Van Camp and Ms. Nawal Ben Hamou were appointed to vote. I suggest that the ballots be counted in the conference room, in the presence of the voters. I propose that you proceed to the counting of the ballots in the Conference Hall, in the presence of the deputy returning officers. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would ask every Member to put his unsigned ballot paper in the ballot box when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. Upon the call of his or her name, each member is requested to submit his or her unsigned ballot in the ballot box, going up to the rostrum from my left to my right. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u85	Did everyone vote? Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? The vote is closed. I declare the ballot closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u86	The next item is the secret ballot for the nomination of two double lists of sixteen candidates for the mandates of members of: - the National Evaluation Committee on the application of the legislation on the termination of pregnancy, and - the Federal Audit and Evaluation Committee on the application of the law on euthanasia. The next item is the ballot for the presentation of two double lists of sixteen candidates for the terms of office of: - the National Evaluation Commission to assess the application of the provisions on termination of pregnancy and - the Federal Commission for Monitoring and Evaluation of the Enforcement of the Euthanasia Act. On the one hand, the Commission consists of: - eight members who are doctors, at least four of whom are professors, lecturers or emeritus professors in medicine at a Belgian university; - four members who are professor, lecturer or emeritus professor of law at a Belgian university or attorney; - four members from circles responsible for the reception and supervision of women in an emergency. On the one hand, the Commission "interruption of pregnancy" is composed of: - eight members are medical doctors, at least four of whom are professor, lecturer or professor emeritus of medicine at a Belgian university; - four members are professor, lecturer or professor emeritus of law at a Belgian university or lawyer; - four members come from circles responsible for the reception and guidance of women in distress. On the other hand, the Commission consists of: - eight members who are doctors in medicine, of whom there are at least four (emeritus) professors or lecturers at a Belgian university; - four members who are (emeritus) professor or lecturer in law at a Belgian university or lawyer; - four members who come from circles responsible for the problems of incurably ill patients. On the other hand, the Euthanasia Commission is composed of: - eight members are medical doctors, at least four of whom are professors (emeritus) or lecturers at a Belgian university; - four members are professors (emeritus) or lecturers in law at a Belgian university or lawyer; - four members come from circles dealing with the problem of patients with an incurable disease. The members of the two committees shall be appointed on the basis of their knowledge and experience in matters falling within the competence of their respective committees. The members of the two committees shall be appointed on the basis of their knowledge and experience in matters falling within the competence of their respective committees. Members shall be appointed, in accordance with the linguistic parity and on the basis of a pluralistic representation established by royal decree after consultation in the Council of Ministers, from a double list proposed by the Chamber. The members shall be appointed, with due regard for linguistic parity and on the basis of pluralistic representation, by royal decree deliberated in the Council of Ministers, on a double list submitted by the Chamber. Each language group of the Commission has nine women and seven men. There are nine women and seven men in each language group of the Pregnancy Interruption Commission. Each language group of the Commission "euthanasia" has at least three candidates of each sex. Each linguistic group of the Euthanasia Commission has at least three candidates of each sex. The members of both committees shall be appointed for a renewable term of four years. The members of both committees are appointed for a renewable term of four years. Candidates who have not been appointed as effective members shall be appointed alternates. Candidates who have not been appointed as effective members shall be appointed as alternate members. Candidates to the Commission "pregnancy termination" were announced at the plenary session of 10 November 2016 and the applications to the Commission "euthanasia" at the plenary session of 15 September 2016. Nominations for the Pregnancy Interruption Committee were announced in plenary on 10 November 2016 and applications for the Euthanasia Committee were announced in plenary on 15 September 2016. The documents containing the list of candidates for the term of office were distributed under Nos 2231/1 and 2232/1. The documents bearing the names of all the candidates for the terms of office have been circulated under agenda items 2231/1 and 2232/1. In view of the multitude of criteria to be met by the composition of the two committees, the Conference of Presidents proposes that the Chamber should decide on a double list model for each committee. These models contain a number of candidates equal to the number of open mandates. In view of the multiplicity of criteria to be met by the composition of the two committees, the Conference of Presidents proposes that the House decide on a model of a double list for each committee. These models include a number of candidates equal to the number of mandates to be filled. You have received two ballot letters covering two shutters: You received two ballot papers consisting of two parts: - on the one hand, the names of all candidates by category. In addition to each candidate, there is a ballot box for list 1 and a ballot box for list 2; - on the one hand, the names of all candidates by category. Each name shall be followed by a voting box for List 1 and a voting box for List 2; - on the other hand, a double list comprising two series of sixteen members. There's one voice box above that model. - on the other hand, a model double list consisting of two series of sixteen members. This model has a lead box. Members who agree with the double-list models are invited to place a cross in the voting box above the models. Members who join the dual list templates are asked to draw a cross in the top box of these models. Those who, on the other hand, do not wish to approve these models may place a cross in the box opposite the names of the selected candidates, 16 of which are listed in lists 1 and 16. Each member is thus free to vote for the candidates of his choice. Members who do not approve these models may draw a cross in the box opposite the names of the selected candidates, including sixteen for List 1 and sixteen for List 2. Each member is thus free to vote for the candidates of his or her choice. The ballots shall be invalid if both votes are cast. The combination of these two methods of voting results in the nullity of the ballot papers. Vote notes with more votes than there are mandates are invalid. Ballot papers containing more votes than there are warrants to be filled shall be void. As the vote is secret, the ballots must not be signed. Due to the secret nature of the ballot, ballot papers cannot be signed. First we have to put together one or two desks of voters by drawing lots. Each bureau shall be composed of four members. I propose, however, that the last two Members who have taken their seats at the Bureau today should be nominated for the vote. We must first draw lots from one or two offices of deputy returning officers, each composed of four members, who will be responsible for the counting. I suggest, however, that you appoint the two youngest members to the bureau this day to take the ballots. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. The ladies Yoleen Van Camp and Nawal Ben Hamou are appointed to record the votes. Ms. Yoleen Van Camp and Ms. Nawal Ben Hamou were appointed to vote. I suggest that the ballots be counted in the conference room, in the presence of the voters. I propose that you proceed to the counting of the ballots in the Conference Hall, in the presence of the deputy returning officers. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would ask every Member to place his unsigned ballot papers in the ballot boxes when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. Upon the call of his or her name, each member is requested to submit his or her unsigned ballots in the ballot boxes, going up to the rostrum from my left to my right. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u87	Did everyone vote? Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? The vote is closed. I declare the ballot closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u88	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; these proposals shall be forwarded to the appropriate committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Proposal No. 2214/1 by Mrs. Els Van Hoof was already considered last week. Proposal No 2214/1 by Mrs Els Van Hoof has already been taken into account last week. Are you sure you don't mind? (No) It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u89	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 128 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the Chamber of Representatives for the financial year 2015. Accordingly, the House adopts the 2015 budget year accounts of the House of Representatives. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mr Carcaci has abstained. Mrs Gabriels voted in favour. Ladies and gentlemen, there are a lot of votes on the agenda, so I would ask that everyone keep their heads.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u90	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 117 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 20 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the budgetary adjustment for the 2016 financial year of the Chamber of Representatives. Accordingly, the House adopts the budgetary adjustment for the 2016 budget year of the House of Representatives. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u91	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 116 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 21 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court shall adopt the budget of the Chamber of Representatives for the financial year 2017. Accordingly, the House adopts the budget for the 2017 budget year of the House of Representatives. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u92	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 125 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the accounts for the financial year 2015 for the financing of the political parties. As a result, the House adopts the 2015 budget year accounts for the financing of political parties. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mrs Uyttersprot voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u93	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 111 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 27 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the budget for the financial year 2017 for the financing of the political parties. Accordingly, the House adopts the budget for the 2017 budget year for the financing of political parties. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u94	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 124 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court of Auditors shall adopt the accounts of the Court of Auditors for the financial year 2015. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the accounts for the 2015 budget year of the Court of Auditors. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u95	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 123 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court of Auditors shall adopt the amendment of the budget of the Court of Auditors for the financial year 2016. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the adjustment of the budget for the 2016 budget year of the Court of Auditors. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u96	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 121 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court of Auditors' budget proposals for the financial year 2017 are adopted by the Court of Auditors. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the budget proposals for the 2017 budget year of the Court of Auditors. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u97	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the accounts of the Constitutional Court for the financial year 2015. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2015 budget year accounts of the Constitutional Court. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mr De Roover and Mr Miller voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u98	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 119 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft budget of the Constitutional Court for the financial year 2017. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the budget proposals for the 2017 budget year of the Constitutional Court. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u99	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the High Council for Justice for the financial year 2015. Accordingly, the House adopts the 2015 budget year accounts of the Supreme Council of Justice. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mr Laaouej voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u100	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes [[114]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the second adjustment of the budget of the High Council for Justice for the financial year 2015. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the second adjustment of the budget for the 2015 budget year of the Supreme Council of Justice. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u101	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes [[113]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court of Auditors shall adopt the budget proposals of the High Council for Justice for the financial year 2017. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the budget proposals for the 2017 budget year of the Supreme Council of Justice. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u102	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision for the financial year 2015. Accordingly, the House adopts the 2015 budget year accounts of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mrs Lanjri and Mr Van Rompuy voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u103	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes [[115]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the budget proposals for the financial year 2017 of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision. As a result, the House adopted the budget proposals for the 2017 budget year of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u104	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of the Intelligence and Security Services for the financial year 2015. Accordingly, the House adopts the 2015 budget year accounts of the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mrs Detiège and Mr Dallemagne voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u105	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes 116 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the budget proposals for the financial year 2017 of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of the Intelligence and Security Services. As a result, the House adopted the 2017 budget proposals of the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u106	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes 137 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the College of Federal Ombudsmen for the financial year 2015. As a result, the House adopts the 2015 budget year accounts of the College of Federal Ombudsmen. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u107	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes 118 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the amendment of the budget of the College of Federal Ombudsmen for the financial year 2016. Accordingly, the House adopts the adjustment of the budget for the 2016 budget year of the College of Federal Ombudsmen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u108	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes 116 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the budget proposals for the financial year 2017 of the College of Federal Ombudsmen. Accordingly, the House adopts the budget proposals for the 2017 budget year of the College of Federal Ombudsmen. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mr Beke voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u109	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 21) Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the accounts of the Commission for the protection of privacy for the financial year 2015. As a result, the House adopts the 2015 budget year accounts of the Privacy Commission. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u110	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 22) Yes 118 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the amendment of the Commission's budget for the financial year 2016 for the protection of privacy. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the adjustment of the 2016 budget of the Privacy Commission. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u111	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 23) Yes [[114]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the Commission's budget proposals for the financial year 2017 for the protection of privacy. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the budget proposals for the 2017 budget year of the Committee on the Protection of Privacy. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mr Calomne voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u112	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 24) Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts for the financial year 2015 of the Appointment Committees for the notary. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2015 budget year accounts of the Commissions of Appointment for the Notariat. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u113	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 25) Yes 117 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court shall adopt the amendment of the budget for the financial year 2016 of the Appointment Committees for the Notarial Society. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the adjustment of the budget for the 2016 budget year of the Commissions de nomination pour le notariat. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mrs Smeyers and Mr Buysrogge voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u114	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 26) Yes 117 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the budget proposals for the financial year 2017 of the Appointment Committees for the notary. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the budget proposals for the 2017 budget year of the Commissions of Appointment for the Notariat. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u115	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 27) Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the accounts of the BIM Commission for the financial year 2015. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the accounts for the 2015 budget year of the BIM Commission. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u116	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 28) Yes 117 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the BIM Commission's budget proposals for the financial year 2017. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the budget proposals for the 2017 budget year of the BIM Commission. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u117	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 29) Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the Audit Body for the financial year 2015 on the police information. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2015 budget year accounts of the Police Information Review Body. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u118	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 30) Yes [[115]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 20 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the adjustment of the 2016 budget of the Supervisory Body to the police information. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the adjustment of the budget for the 2016 budget year of the Police Information Review Body. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mrs Demir, Mrs Becq, Mr Verherstraeten and Mr Beke voted in favour. Mr Dallemagne and Mr Lutgen abstained.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u119	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 117 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the budgetary proposals for the financial year 2017 of the Supervisory Body on the police information. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the budget proposals for the 2017 budget year of the Police Information Review Body. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u120	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 32) Yes 117 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the budget of the Federal Deontological Commission for the financial year 2016. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the budget for the 2016 budget year of the Federal Ethics Commission. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u121	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 33) Yes 117 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the budget proposals for the financial year 2017 of the Federal Deontological Commission. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the budget proposals for the 2017 budget year of the Federal Ethics Commission. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u122	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 34) Yes 79 Yes No. [[60]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2108/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2108/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u123	Vote on Amendment No 9 by Hendrik Vuye cs on Article 2.01.6. (2109/43) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Hendrik Vuye cs to Article 2.01.6. (2109/43) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 35) Yes [[27]] Yes No. 90 No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2.01.6 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2.01.6 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Mrs Özen voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 8 of Hendrik Vuye cs on the table in Annex. (2109/43) Vote on amendment No 8 by Hendrik Vuye cs on the annexed table. (2109/43) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 36) Yes 5 Yes No. [[85]] No Abstentions 47 Abstensions Total 137 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u124	Vote on Amendment No 7 of Hendrik Vuye cs on the table in Annex. (2109/43) Vote on amendment No 7 by Hendrik Vuye cs on the annexed table. (2109/43) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 37) Yes 4 Yes No. 89 No Abstentions 48 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected and the table annexed was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and the annexed table adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u125	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 38) Yes [[80]] Yes No. [[60]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft general budget for expenditure for the financial year 2017. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2109/44) As a result, the House passed the Bill containing the General Estimates for the 2017 fiscal year. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2109/44) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u126	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 39) Yes 102 Yes No. [[37]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law amending for the second time the general expenditure budget for the financial year 2016. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2176/5) As a result, the House passed the bill containing the second adjustment to the General Estimates for the 2016 budget year. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2176/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mrs Lanjri voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u127	Vote on Amendment No 11 by Karin Jiroflée cs to Article 19. (2208/12) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Karin Jiroflée cs on Article 19. (2208/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 40) Yes 49 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 19 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 19 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Ms. Caprasse abstained. Vote on Amendment No 12 by Karin Jiroflée cs to insert an Article 19/1(n). (2208/12) Vote on Amendment No 12 by Karin Jiroflée cs to insert an article 19/1(n). (2208/12) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u128	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 13 by Karin Jiroflée cs to insert an Article 19/2(n). (2208/12) Vote on Amendment No 13 by Karin Jiroflée cs to insert an Article 19/2(n). (2208/12) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u129	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 1 by Catherine Fonck to delete Article 22. (2208/12) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Catherine Fonck to omit Article 22. (2208/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 41) Yes 58 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 22 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 22 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 2 by Catherine Fonck to delete Article 23. (2208/12) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Catherine Fonck leaving out Article 23. (2208/12) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u130	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 23 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 23 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 3 by Catherine Fonck to delete Article 24. (2208/12) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Catherine Fonck to omit Article 24. (2208/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 42) Yes 33 Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 26 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 24 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 24 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 4 by Catherine Fonck to delete Article 25. (2208/12) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Catherine Fonck to omit Article 25. (2208/12) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u131	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 7 by Catherine Fonck to Article 25. (2208/12) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Catherine Fonck on article 25. (2208/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 43) Yes [[45]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 25 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 25 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 5 by Catherine Fonck to delete Article 26. (2208/12) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Catherine Fonck to omit Article 26. (2208/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 44) Yes 33 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 26 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u132	Vote on Amendment No 8 by Catherine Fonck to Article 26. (2208/12) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Catherine Fonck on article 26. (2208/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 45) Yes 44 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 26 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 26 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u133	Vote on amendment No. 10 by Monica De Coninck cs to insert an article 26/1(n). (2208/12) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Monica De Coninck cs to insert an article 26/1(n). (2208/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 46) Yes 51 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Mr Chastel voted against. Vote on Amendment No 6 by Catherine Fonck to delete Article 27. (2208/12) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Catherine Fonck to omit Article 27. (2208/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 47) Yes 33 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 25 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 27 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 27 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 9 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 30/1(n). (2208/12) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 30/1(n). (2208/12) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u134	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 14 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 129(n). (2208/12) Vote on Amendment No 14 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 129(n). (2208/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 48) Yes 58 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 15 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 130(n). (2208/12) Vote on Amendment No 15 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 130(n). (2208/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 49) Yes 51 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 16 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 131(n). (2208/12) Vote on Amendment No 16 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 131(n). (2208/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 50) Yes [[47]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 139 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 17 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 131(n). (2208/12) Vote on Amendment No 17 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 131(n). (2208/12) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u135	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mrs Becq has voted 'no'. Vote on Amendment No 18 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 132(n). (2208/12) Vote on Amendment No 18 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 132(n). (2208/12) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u136	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 19 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 133(n). (2208/12) Vote on Amendment No 19 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 133(n). (2208/12) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u137	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 20 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 134(n). (2208/12) Vote on Amendment No 20 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 134(n). (2208/12) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u138	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 21 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 135(n). (2208/12) Vote on Amendment No 21 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 135(n). (2208/12) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u139	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 22 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 136(n). (2208/12) Vote on Amendment No 22 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 136(n). (2208/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 51) Yes 56 Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 23 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 136(n). (2208/12) Vote on Amendment No 23 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 136(n). (2208/12) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u140	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 24 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 137(n). (2208/12) Vote on Amendment No 24 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 137(n). (2208/12) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u141	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 25 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 138(n). (2208/12) Vote on Amendment No 25 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 138(n). (2208/12) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u142	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 26 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 139(n). (2208/12) Vote on Amendment No 26 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 139(n). (2208/12) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u143	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 27 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 140(n). (2208/12) Vote on Amendment No 27 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 140(n). (2208/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 52) Yes 58 Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 28 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 141(n). (2208/12) Vote on Amendment No 28 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 141(n). (2208/12) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u144	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 29 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 141(n). (2208/12) Vote on Amendment No 29 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 141(n). (2208/12) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u145	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 30 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 142(n). (2208/12) Vote on Amendment No 30 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 142(n). (2208/12) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u146	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 31 by Ahmed Laaouej cs to insert an Article 143(n). (2208/12) Vote on Amendment No 31 by Ahmed Laaouej cs to insert an Article 143(n). (2208/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 53) Yes 58 Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 32 by Ahmed Laaouej cs to insert an Article 144(n). (2208/12) Vote on amendment No. 32 by Ahmed Laaouej cs to insert an article 144(n). (2208/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 54) Yes 56 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 33 by Ahmed Laaouej cs to insert an article 145(n). (2208/12) Vote on Amendment No 33 by Ahmed Laaouej cs to insert an Article 145(n). (2208/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 55) Yes 56 Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u147	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 56) Yes 79 Yes No. 59 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft programme law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2208/13) As a result, the House passed the program bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2208/13) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u148	Amendment No 9 by Mr Stéphane Crusnière has been withdrawn. Amendment No 9 by Mr Stéphane Crusnière was withdrawn. Stemming over amendment nr. 12 van Stéphane Crusnière op artikel 4. (2069/11) Vote on Amendment No 12 by Stéphane Crusnière to Article 4. (2069/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 57) Yes 49 Yes No. 91 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Stemming over amendment nr. 11 van Stéphane Crusnière op artikel 7. (2069/11) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Stéphane Crusnière to Article 7. (2069/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u149	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 10 by Georges Dallemagne cs on article 29. (2069/9) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Georges Dallemagne cs to Article 29. (2069/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 58) Yes 56 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 29 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 29 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u150	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u151	Mr President, for the PS, the fight against terrorism must be a priority. We have never escaped our responsibilities in this regard. The PS Group was ready to support the introduction of the NRP in air transport, as the European Directive was actually proposing. But you have gone further, both for the transport concerned and for the passenger profile. Three European Commissioners indicated their disapproval. The Privacy Commission is also critical of this. The vigilant associations for individual freedoms, but also the tourism and transport sectors are negative on this text and have not even been associated. So, yes to a security policy! But in this case, you are not going to be effective and you are no longer in the balance between security and the protection of individual freedoms. For all these reasons, my group will vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u152	Mr President, with the same argument, we will abstain. I would like to add one more argument. It is true that the criticism of the Commissioners has not been raised, even though it was on the government table and a well-known member of the majority already had the letters in her possession but forgot to bring them up for discussion. Apart from the privacy issues that still have a lot to say, there is the fact that the federal government fails to consult the regions, which are nevertheless responsible for tourism, economics and so on. They should have given their advice, but that did not happen in spite of pressure. I hope that this case does not capse on the basis of conflicts of interest or other incidents. In any case, the discussion is certainly not exhausted for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u153	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 59) Yes 90 Yes No. 36 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2069/12) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2069/12) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u154	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 60) Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2151/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2151/5) Mrs Zuhal Demir voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u155	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 61) Yes 136 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2206/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2206/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mrs Grovonius voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u156	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 62) Yes 138 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2189/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2189/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u157	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 63) Yes 124 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2205/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2205/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u158	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 64) Yes 82 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 57 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2198/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2198/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u159	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 65) Yes 86 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 54 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2207/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2207/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Mrs Sybille de Coster-Bauchau voted in favour, as did her group.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u160	Vote on Amendment No 1 by Barbara Pas to insert an Article 2/1(n).(1919/6) Vote on amendment No. 1 by Barbara Not tending to insert an article 2/1(n).(2199/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 66) Yes 4 Yes No. 136 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u161	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 67) Yes [[85]] Yes No. 56 Non Abstentions 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Abstentions Totaal 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1919/7) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1919/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u162	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 68) Yes [[80]] Yes No. 31 No Abstentions 30 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2139/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2139/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u163	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 69) Yes [[140]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2175/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2175/4) Mrs Muriel Gerkens voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u164	Vote on Amendment No 24 by Michel de Lamotte cs on Article 3. (2070/6) Vote on Amendment No 24 by Michel de Lamotte cs to Article 3. (2070/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 70) Yes 56 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Vote on Amendment No 37 by Jean-Marc Nollet cs on Article 3. (2070/8) Vote on Amendment No 37 by Jean-Marc Nollet cs to Article 3. (2070/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 71) Yes [[25]] Yes No. 103 No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Vote on Amendment No 25 by Michel de Lamotte cs on Article 3. (2070/6) Vote on Amendment No 25 by Michel de Lamotte cs to Article 3. (2070/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 72) Yes 56 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Vote on Amendment No 39 by Karine Lalieux on Article 3. (2070/8) Vote on Amendment No 39 by Karine Lalieux to Article 3. (2070/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 73) Yes 49 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Vote on Amendment No 38 by Jean-Marc Nollet cs on Article 3. (2070/8) Vote on Amendment No 38 by Jean-Marc Nollet cs to Article 3. (2070/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 74) Yes [[25]] Yes No. 103 No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Vote on Amendment No 26 by Karine Lalieux cs on Article 3. (2070/6) Vote on Amendment No 26 by Karine Lalieux cs to Article 3. (2070/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 75) Yes [[55]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 140 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Vote on Amendment No 27 by Karine Lalieux on Article 3. (2070/6) Vote on Amendment No 27 by Karine Lalieux to Article 3. (2070/6) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u165	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mr Van der Maelen has always voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 28 by Karine Lalieux on Article 3. (2070/6) Vote on Amendment No 28 by Karine Lalieux to Article 3. (2070/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 76) Yes 58 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 29 by Karine Lalieux on Article 3. (2070/6) Vote on Amendment No 29 by Karine Lalieux to Article 3. (2070/6) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u166	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 30 by Karine Lalieux on Article 3. (2070/6) Vote on Amendment No 30 by Karine Lalieux to Article 3. (2070/6) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u167	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 32 by Kristof Calvo cs to omit Article 4. (2070/6) Vote on Amendment No 32 by Kristof Calvo cs to delete Article 4. (2070/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 77) Yes [[21]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 39 Abstentions Totaal 141 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Vote on Amendment No 31 by Karine Lalieux on Article 8. (2070/6) Vote on Amendment No 31 by Karine Lalieux to Article 8. (2070/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 78) Yes 57 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 2 Abstentions Totaal 139 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 8 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 8 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Mr Chastel voted against. Vote on Amendment No 34 by Jean-Marc Nollet cs on Article 10. (2070/6) Vote on Amendment No 34 by Jean-Marc Nollet cs to Article 10. (2070/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 79) Yes 14 Yes No. 92 Non Abstentions 35 Abstentions Totaal 141 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Vote on Amendment No 36 of Jean-Marc Nollet cs to the Annex. (2070/6) Vote on Amendment No 36 by Jean-Marc Nollet cs to the Annex. (2070/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 80) Yes 56 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 4 Abstentions Totaal [[140]] Total The amendment was therefore rejected and the annex was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and the annex adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u168	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 81) Yes 81 Yes No. 58 Non Abstentions 2 Abstentions Totaal 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2070/9) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2070/9) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u169	Vote on Amendment No 1 by Michel de Lamotte to insert an Article 2/1(n). (2188/4) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Michel de Lamotte to insert an Article 2/1(n). (2188/4) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 82) Yes 57 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Mrs Lalieux voted in favour. Mrs Van Hoof voted against. Vote on Amendment No 2 by Michel de Lamotte to insert an article 10/1(n). (2188/4) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Michel de Lamotte to insert an Article 10/1(n). (2188/4) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u170	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u171	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 83) Yes 79 Yes No. 56 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2188/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2188/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u172	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 84) Yes 137 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2183/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2183/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u173	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 85) Yes 81 Yes No. [[47]] No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2210/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2210/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Ms. Poncelet abstained.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u174	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 86) Yes 83 Yes No. [[43]] No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1966/11) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1966/11) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u175	Vote on Amendment No 142 by Olivier Maingain on Article 34. (1986/12) Vote on Amendment No 142 by Olivier Maingain to Article 34. (1986/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 87) Yes [[45]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 34 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 34 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Reason for abstention? [[No]] Vote on Amendment No 143 by Olivier Maingain on Article 64. (1986/12) Vote on Amendment No 143 by Olivier Maingain to Rule 64. (1986/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 88) Yes [[47]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 140 Total Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Reason for abstention? [[No]] Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 64 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 64 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 144 by Olivier Maingain for the deletion of Article 81. ( 1986/12) Vote on Amendment No 144 by Olivier Maingain to delete Rule 81. (1986/12) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u176	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 81 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 81 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 145 by Olivier Maingain on Article 107. (1986/12) Vote on Amendment No 145 by Olivier Maingain to Rule 107. (1986/12) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u177	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 107 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 107 adopted. Vote on Amendment No 146 by Olivier Maingain for the deletion of Article 116. (1986/12) Vote on Amendment No 146 by Olivier Maingain to delete Rule 116. (1986/12) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u178	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 116 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 116 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 147 by Olivier Maingain for the deletion of Article 118. (1986/12) Vote on Amendment No 147 by Olivier Maingain to delete Rule 118. (1986/12) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u179	The amendment was therefore rejected and Article 118 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 118 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 148 by Olivier Maingain on Article 122. (1986/12) Vote on Amendment No 148 by Olivier Maingain to Rule 122. (1986/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 89) Yes 32 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 28 Abstensions Total 139 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Reason for abstention? [[No]] Vote on Amendment No 149 by Olivier Maingain on Article 122. (1986/12) Vote on Amendment No 149 by Olivier Maingain to Rule 122. (1986/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 90) Yes 44 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 137 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Reason for abstention? [[No]] Mrs Almaci voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 150 by Olivier Maingain on Article 122. (1986/12) Vote on Amendment No 150 by Olivier Maingain to Rule 122. (1986/12) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u180	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 122 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 122 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 151 by Olivier Maingain on Article 125. (1986/12) Vote on Amendment No 151 by Olivier Maingain to Rule 125. (1986/12) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u181	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 125 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 125 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 152 by Olivier Maingain on Article 126. (1986/12) Vote on Amendment No 152 by Olivier Maingain to Rule 126. (1986/12) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u182	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 126 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 126 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 153 by Olivier Maingain on Article 128. (1986/12) Vote on Amendment No 153 by Olivier Maingain to Rule 128. (1986/12) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u183	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 128 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 128 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u184	Mr President, my group voted in favour of Amendments Nos 152 and 153.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u185	Vote on Amendment No 154 by Olivier Maingain on Article 129. (1986/12) Vote on Amendment No 154 by Olivier Maingain to Rule 129. (1986/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 91) Yes 53 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 129 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 129 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Reason for abstention? [[No]] Vote on Amendment No 155 by Olivier Maingain for the deletion of Article 139. (1986/12) Vote on Amendment No 155 by Olivier Maingain to delete Rule 139. (1986/12) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u186	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 139 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 139 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 156 by Olivier Maingain on Article 143. (1986/12) Vote on Amendment No 156 by Olivier Maingain to Rule 143. (1986/12) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u187	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 143 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 143 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 157 by Olivier Maingain on Article 182. (1986/12) Vote on Amendment No 157 by Olivier Maingain to Rule 182. (1986/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 92) Yes [[45]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 182 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 182 was adopted. Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 141 by Christian Brotcorne to insert an article 183(n). (1986/12) Vote on Amendment No 141 by Christian Brotcorne to insert an Article 183(n). (1986/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 93) Yes 33 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 27 Abstensions Total 140 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u188	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 94) Yes 95 Yes No. 31 No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1986/13) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1986/13) Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u189	Aantal stewards 136 Number of voters Blank and invalid bulletins 6 White and invalid bulletins Valid votes 130 Votes valables Two-thirds majority 87 Two-thirds majority The following preferred votes were counted: The following preference votes were recorded: For the Dutch Appointments Committee: For the Netherlands Language Appointment Commission: 1. As magistrate: 1. As a magistrate: Mr Philippe Gysbergs obtained 122 votes Philippe Gysbergs obtained 122 votes Ms Rita Mortier obtained 0 votes Mrs Rita Mortier obtained 0 votes in favour Ms Alexandra Schoenmaekers obtained 0 votes Mme Alexandra Schoenmaekers obtient 0 suffrage Mr Patrick Taily obtained 0 votes M. Patrick Taily obtient 0 suffrage Mr Bart Van Den Bergh obtained 0 votes M. Bart Van Den Bergh obtient 0 suffrage 2. As a professor: 2. As a teacher: Mr Stefan Rutten obtained 123 votes Mr Stefan Rutten obtained 123 votes Mr Geert Vervaeke obtained 1 vote M. Geert Vervaeke obtient 1 suffrage 3. As an external member: 3. As an external member: Mr Etienne Allaerts obtained 0 votes Mr Etienne Allaerts obtained 0 votes in favour Mr David Baele obtained 120 votes Mr. David Baele obtained 120 votes Ms Isabelle Dupré obtained 0 votes Ms Isabelle Dupré obtained 0 votes in favour Ms Rita Mortier obtained 0 votes Mrs Rita Mortier obtained 0 votes in favour Mr Tom Ryken obtained 0 votes Mr Tom Ryken obtained 0 votes in favour Mr Antoine Van Eeckhout obtained 1 vote Mr Antoine Van Eeckhout obtained 1 vote Mr Geert Vervaeke obtained 117 votes M. Geert Vervaeke obtient 117 suffrags For the French-speaking Appointments Committee: For the Commission de nomination de langue française: 1. As magistrate: 1. As a magistrate: Mr Olivier Michiels obtained 99 votes Olivier Michiels obtained 99 votes Mr Eric Robert obtained 25 votes Mr Eric Robert obtained 25 votes in favour 2. As a professor: 2. As a teacher: Mr Frédéric Georges obtained 128 votes Frédéric Georges obtained 128 votes Mr Damien Jans obtained 0 votes Mr Damien Jans obtained 0 votes in favour 3. As an external member: 3. As an external member: Ms Sandrine Corman obtained 123 votes Ms Sandrine Corman obtained 123 votes Mr Guy Cremer obtained 0 votes Mr Guy Cremer obtained 0 votes in favour Mr François Dubois obtained 0 votes Mr François Dubois obtained 0 votes in favour Mr Bernard Garcez obtained 96 votes Mr Bernard Garcez obtained 96 votes Mr Patrick Gielen obtained 0 votes Mr Patrick Gielen obtained 0 votes in favour Ms Stéphanie Mees obtained 0 votes Mrs Stephanie Mees obtained 0 votes in favour Mr Christophe Philippe obtained 22 votes Mr Christophe Philippe obtained 22 votes in favour Mr Christian van Lidth de Jeude obtained 1 vote M. Christian van Lidth de Jeude obtient 1 suffrage Therefore, non-notaries of the Notarial Appointment Committees shall be elected as effective members: Accordingly, the following are hereby declared elected as effective non-notary members of the Commissions of Appointment for the Notariat: For the Dutch Appointments Committee: For the Netherlands Language Appointment Commission: 1. As magistrate: 1. As a magistrate: De heer Philippe Gysbergs/M. Philippe Gysbergs 2. As a professor: 2. As a teacher: Mr Stefan Rutten/M. Stefan Rutten 3. As an external member: 3. As an external member: Mr David Baele/M. David Baele Mr Geert Vervaeke/M. Geert Vervaeke For the French-speaking Appointments Committee: For the Commission de nomination de langue française: 1. As magistrate: 1. As a magistrate: Mr Olivier Michiels/M. Olivier Michiels 2. As a professor: 2. As a teacher: De heer Frédéric Georges/M. Frédéric Georges 3. As an external member: 3. As an external member: Ms Sandrine Corman ν Mme Sandrine Corman Mr Bernard Garcez/M. Bernard Garcez.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u190	Number of voters: 136 Number of voters: 136 Blank and invalid bulletins: 6 White and invalid bulletins: 6 Valid votes: 130 Valid votes: 130 Perfect majority: 66 Absolute majority: 66 The double list model achieves 116 votes. The model double list won 116 votes. As the double list model has reached the absolute majority of votes, the Chamber of Representatives proposes a first list of the following names: Since the model double list obtained an absolute majority of votes, the House of Representatives presented a first list with the following names: Mr Chris Verslype Monsieur Didier Pour Mr Etienne De Groot Mr Wim Distelmans Mr. Philippe Boxho Monsieur Charles Kornreich Madame Corinne Vaysse-Van Oost Ma'am. Anne Desodt Mr Christophe Lemmens Mrs Jacqueline Herremans Mr. Gilles Genicot Mr Walter De Bondt Ms Magali De Jonghe Mrs. Thérèse Locoge Madame Chantal Gilbert Ms Jacinta De Roeck The Chamber of Representatives shall propose a second list of the following names: The House of Representatives presents a second list with the following names: Monsieur Maurice Sosnowski Mr Dominique Lossignol Madame Marie-Elisabeth Faymonville Mr Marco Schetgen Mr Luc Proot Ma'am. Michèle Morret-Rauïs Ms Muriel Thienpont Mr Ludo Vanopdenbosch Mr Yves-Henri Leleu Mr Gerd Verschelen Mr Tom Balthazar Mr. Marc Van Overstraeten Ma'am. Géraldine Mathieu Mr Paul Destrooper Mrs Magriet De Maegd Mrs Arlette Geuens The individual results of the candidates will be included in the Annex to the Integrated Report of the next plenary session. The individual results of the candidates will be included in the Annex to the full report of the next plenary session.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u191	Result of the vote Voting results Number of voters: 137 Number of voters: 137 Blank and invalid bulletins: 6 White and invalid bulletins: 6 Valid votes: 131 Valid votes: 131 Perfect majority: 66 Absolute majority: 66 The double-list model achieves 121 votes. The model double list won 121 votes. As the double list model has reached the absolute majority of votes, the Chamber of Representatives proposes a first list of the following names: Since the model double list obtained an absolute majority of votes, the House of Representatives presented a first list with the following names: Mr J an Deprest Ma'am. Kristien Roelens Mr Hendrik Cammu Mr. Jean-Noël Missa Mrs Anne Firquet Ms Anne Verougstraete De heer Jacques Germeaux Mrs Dominique Roynet Ms Myriam Van Varenbergh Monsieur Nathan Radelet Mr Mario Van Essche Madame Anne Lagerwall Ms Carine Vrancken Madame Violaine De Clerck Mr. Frédéric Brichau Madame Sylvie Lausberg The Chamber of Representatives shall propose a second list of the following names: The House of Representatives presents a second list with the following names: Mr Gunnar Naulaers Madame Christine Verellen-Dumoulin Mr Roland Devlieger Mr Wilfried Gyselaers Monsieur Yannick Manigart Isabelle Dumont Mrs Chantal Kortmann Madame Karine Welffens Mr Jules Messine Ms Ingrid Boone Sir. Jean-Marc Hausman Mrs. Elise Boutriau Mrs Ellen Van Stichel Ms Kathleen Alen Ma'am. Arlette Geuens Monsieur Michel Pasteel The individual results of the candidates will be included in the Annex to the Integrated Report of the next plenary session. The individual results of the candidates will be included in the Annex to the full report of the next plenary session.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u192	Colleagues, now that we have come to the end of our work for 2016, I would like to say a few words. In the 2015 end-of-year speech, I said that we were facing major challenges for 2016 not only in terms of socio-economic but also in terms of collective security. Unfortunately, that has been fully realized. However, the work and debates in this House show that our democracy is deeply rooted and capable of resisting its enemies. This House and the committee rooms will always offer spaces of expression and respect for divergent views, including in extremely sensitive areas, such as terrorism. It is the very nature of a democratic system, but when our values are put in jeopardy, we block. This is evident from the work of the Temporary Committee on Terrorism and the Committee on Terrorist Attacks. Meanwhile, the Special Committee of Panama Papers and the Optima Committee of Inquiry continued the work. Very recently, the Committee of Inquiry for the Minor Settlement of Criminal Matters has also started. Colleagues, never before have there been so many temporary, research and special committees working at the same time. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, a considerable amount of work awaits us next year. We'll have to work hard. In this regard, it is good that all members are aware that several services of the Chamber are approaching and sometimes even exceeding their limits, and there is no reason to believe that things will change in the short term. But first, we will spare ourselves a moment of rest. I therefore wish you a peaceful and comforting Christmas holiday. In the name of the assembly, I would also like to wish the Prime Minister and the members of the government a prosperous new year and thank them for their cooperation over the past year, although I cannot let them mention that the government has also regularly pushed the Chamber to the limit, and I hope it has been the last time, knowing that optimism is a moral duty. I am also very pleased that no longer than yesterday Mrs Onkelinx of the PS put forward the proposal to look a little more closely at some of our activities, to examine at a number of times when we are threatening to become a caricature of ourselves, no matter how worthy and venerable and important the institution is, whether we can do something about it in the future. There is no need to hope or succeed in undertaking, or even persevering. Colleagues, I would like to express our gratitude and wish our best wishes for 2017, to our new Clerk, and to all House staff. [[Applause]] The applause speaks. I know that despite the pressure our employees remain at their disposal. We very much appreciate that. I would also like to thank the journalists who have followed our work over the past year. The hatred-love relationship between media and politics has remained virtually intact. Finally, I should also like to express our sincere thanks to the new military commander, the members of the military police and the members of our security corps. They all made a special effort in the last special year. Colleagues, you will all be very well in the next few weeks and in the next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u193	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this year 2016 ends as it began, with painful news. Intolerance has caused death, anguish and despair. On these minefields there have been other threats which, as history teaches us, drink with the milk of fear. It is in those moments that it is necessary to say again that we have the chance to live in democracy. This democracy is not perfect, far from it, and I do not forget the difficulties of life of so many of our fellow citizens. That is the very essence of the commitment of many of us. But the countries where there is genuine freedom of expression and belief, freedom of the press and powers that control each other are so rare that we must dare to rejoice at what our country offers. A democracy does not exist if it is not supported by citizens who are agitating, acting, opposing or supporting. Participatory democracy in all our regions is one of the most perennial in Europe and we welcome it. But there is no democracy either without parliaments, without elected representatives chosen by the population to represent them and to defend them. Parliament is also the oxygen of democracy. Mr President, you are right, we must continue to improve our way of working. I have already spoken to you about this at the beginning of this week. Your speech also gives me the opportunity to pay tribute to the work of Members of Parliament. I was just reminding you of history. It shows us that those who attack democracies are beginning to denounce the people's elected representatives, to amalgamate, to caricature them. Today, even if, in each profession, a few do not do the job, I would like to greet the elected officials who spend days or even nights, here and on the ground, defending their values, their convictions and representing the population. Democracies are not eternal. And, despite our differences, despite our opposing views, we must resist and defend the rights and freedoms of all our fellow citizens. Mr President, you are the President of this sitting and I would like to thank you for the patience you have to practice so often. All those hours in the chair, listening to one after the other every week! I wish you can forget us during your holidays and enjoy the charms of the eternal city of Rome. Mr Registrar, I would like, through you, to thank all the staff. I assure you, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a polite formula. It is the conviction that, without all the people who make Parliament work, democracy would not be possible. Be proud of that role! [[Applause]] You will allow me also to associate all our collaborators who, in addition to working very hard, must support us, day after day. Thank you to them! Finally, I would like to thank the journalists. They have had their hands full to follow us through the many debates of recent months. With you, and you will allow me, I would like to do a little boontje in Belga, more present than the most diligent of parliamentarians. [[Applause]] To the government, of course, to all the security services and to all of you, ladies and gentlemen, I wish a very nice Christmas truce. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u194	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 95) Yes 119 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 20 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2220/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2220/5) Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-22-54-plenair-ip151x.u195	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 12 January 2017. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, January 12, 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 12 January 2017 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday 12 January 2017 at 2.15 p.m.
