ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u1	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I remind you of our specific agenda. This is an exchange of views concerning the verification of the actual revenues and costs of the Tihange 1 nuclear power plant for the period from 1 October 2015 to 31 December 2015, in accordance with the agreement on the extension of the life of Tihange 1. We have a meeting that I will call exceptional today, in several ways. First of all, we have already devoted the morning of 20 September to the same subject. We then received the documents of the CREG on 22 September, that is, the day of the plenary session, which led to a debate on the agenda. On this occasion, several groups spoke and the request was addressed to me by the Speaker of the House and by the plenary session to organize as soon as possible and at best this Committee on the Economy on the same subject. Secondly, this meeting is exceptional because, in principle, today we were not supposed to meet. It's the Wallonia-Brussels Federation! As with the day of the Feast of the Flemish Community, in principle no committee is foreseen. However, given the special nature of this dossier and the urgent request of the plenary session, we were able to organise this meeting. Parliament must play its role in democratic debate and transparency on all issues. One of the important tasks of parliament is to control the government, to control the allocation of public funds, which are ultimately the money of all taxpayers. This is not the first time that we have been confronted with a request for documents, information, which arrive at the dropper or drop by drop. Minister, the Speaker of the House sent you a letter asking for a number of documents. We received your answer to President Bracke and some appendices yesterday at 9:37 p.m., if I am not mistaken. I imagine we'll discuss these documents. In this matter, the role of parliamentarians, and of this committee in particular, is to make all transparency and clarity. I hope that we can have a good dialogue where arguments come together and where precise answers are given to the questions asked by colleagues. It is quite exceptional to have to repeat the debate in a week twice. However, this is not the first time this has happened in this way. I'm sorry. We really need complete, reliable and document-based information. I have added a point 2: order of business. I do not prejudge what the outcome of this debate will be, but some colleagues have asked me for other elements that are not on the agenda. As regards the continuation of this debate, I have therefore included an agenda item.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u2	Mr President, I fully agree with your introductory remarks. I feel a little bit like history is ironing out the dishes. You are right to recall the importance of Parliament's work, particularly in its oversight of the government. You are also right to recall the absolute need for transparency in this area. Madam Minister, I have here the letter from the Speaker of the House, which you received. The letter he sent to you said: "In order for all members of the House to be able to read the complete file, may I ask you to send the following documents to the secretariat of the committee as soon as possible?" A list of 16 documents accompanied the President's request. The vast majority of the requested documents were not transmitted to us. The Minister takes refuge behind the alleged total confidentiality, not only of the full report of the CREG, but also of all the notes, including the internal notes to the administration, the cabinet notes, and everything that was requested by the President's letter. I wonder. I am also asking the minister, but also my colleagues. What is the will behind this opacity created by the Minister of Energy? Is it to avoid having to answer questions, at sensitive times, from parliamentarians? Is it to better protect private actors? Is that amateurism? Is it negligent? Or is there another explanation? Mr President, I am not sure that we will be able to complete the discussions if we do not have access to all the documents. I have read the legal note that was sent to us from a firm that has already been called to the case in other cases here. This cabinet justifies the refusal to transmit the documents by the fact that the House of Representatives, questioned in 2015, has already decided this question. He has attached a letter that President Bracke sent to my colleague Kristof Calvo and myself. This is only part of what was played in 2015. If the minister's legal argument is that the House decided in 2015, then I reply to her, "Let's apply what the House decided at that time." In other words, the text signed by my colleague Kristof Calvo and myself is not published, but access to the documents is given to the parliamentarians concerned. Mr President, my first request is for you. I would ask you to implement, as far as this committee is concerned, the decision taken by the Conference of Presidents when we had to deal with a similar case. In fact, history is ironing the dishes, as I have already had the opportunity to say. In this case, on 16 July 2015, the Conference had decided – and I will facilitate the possible work of the secretariat – to make the documents in question available under a data room procedure. I am not going to relaunch the debate on whether or not to publish them. I maintain that we could do this, but this is another debate. I therefore submit my proposal to you immediately. Since, in her legal note, the minister claims to rely on what has been done in the past, then let us apply that decision. Let us deposit these documents that she refuses to transmit to us at this stage in the data room and make them accessible. The minister is so fond of criticizing her predecessors, including Mr. Wathelet. Mr Calvo explained to me that he had made the Tihange 1 convention available in a data room. Better yet, he had asked that parliamentarians go and consult with her.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u3	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u4	Mr President, I therefore ask you, in advance of our work, to take a position on the decision taken earlier by the Conference of Presidents and to apply it to the work of this committee. This concerns the full note of the CREG, but also all the documents resulting from it, which the Minister refuses to transmit to Parliament on the basis that the note of the CREG would be confidential. You know, like me, the precedents: Wathelet and the decision of the Conference of Presidents. It is simply a matter of following the reasoning developed by the minister in the legal note by making these documents accessible to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u5	Thank you, Mr. Nollet. I have heard your request, I will answer you, but I shall give the floor first to the colleagues who have also asked for the floor in the procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u6	Mr President, if we are here, that is to say again: there are many mistakes in this matter by the minister: her opacity, her negligence, her responsibilities and her laxity. In fact, we will go back to the bottom of the case, but, as you have said, Mr. Chairman, if we are here again, it is because of the minister's lack of transparency. So there has really been a democratic deficit on this issue for a very long time, because of the fault and negligence of the minister. So this serious lack of transparency on the part of the minister, Mr. Chairman, his lawyer spoke about it. It is true that the minister herself asked for a legal analysis and the lawyer, paid by the minister and whose analysis was received, said an important thing that is not respected by the minister and which has just been denounced by my colleague. This is: "There must always be a balance between respect for confidentiality in tax matters, for example, and the general interest". Mr President, I thought that a government should first represent and benefit the general interest, transparency and democracy. In any event, this is not what the Minister is doing, and she is not following the analysis of her lawyer that she herself commissioned and that the Crown has paid for. I repeat, minister, that there must be a balance between respect for confidentiality and the general interest. Even your lawyer says you're going too far. It's written. And so we have the impression, Mr.President, that the minister is preventing us from having access to documents on the file for the sole purpose of exercising parliamentary control over the government's missions. I join Mr Nollet in his idea of being able to read all the documents requested in a closed room and I ask the minister – I think that all the colleagues in the majority could also answer this because she invokes an intercabinet – to explain to me why the mission letter that will be entrusted to the independent expert is secret today. I don't understand. Similarly, ladies and gentlemen, why, suddenly, is there not a written explanation of the contradictory arguments given by the Minister on 16 and 17 September 2016? My conclusion at the beginning of this hearing and committee is that the general interest is not something important to the minister. The particular interests of two dominant operators, and above all of a dominant operator and a nuclear giant, are more important to it. Therefore, I draw the conclusion that we do not have access to the documents that the interests of Electrabel and EDF go before those of democratic control, but also before those of all citizens who are entitled to transparency in this matter. Ladies and gentlemen, you can all speak without a problem in response to this request for transparency. Mr President, I would therefore like you to ask the minister again for a series of cases, and as his lawyer says, a balance between confidentiality and the general interest which she is not respecting today before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u7	Mr President, I think you made a good introduction. Today, we're here to...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u8	Mr Calvo, I have the floor. You will speak in your turn. The agenda provides for an exchange of views with the Minister. I think that before we go into the details, it would be interesting first of all for us to have an opportunity to hear the minister. Subsequently, we will have this exchange of views. I think it's a better way to work that the minister can speak right away. We will come back to all these issues later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u9	Mr President, of course I fully agree with the question put by my fellow Members. I would like to add a number of points. We sat together last week and heard from the Minister the whole story with a whole timeline. Not a day after that we have to say that the timeline is not quite right. It was informed by the CREG much earlier of the problems that would arise. We raised the issue in plenary. The President of Parliament has sent a letter to the Minister to make a number of documents available. In addition, he asked a number of questions in that letter. We got the answers last night around 9.30 p.m. However, it turns out that a whole series of questions put by the President of Parliament have not been answered at all. Mr President, you, as chairman of the Committee on Business and Business, as well as the President of Parliament, must now really press the Minister. After all, one week in which we see that, first of all, there is no transparency. Secondly, there are a number of things that are clearly being kept secret. Thirdly, it is clear that it is not the general interest but the interest of two private companies. There is absolutely no guarantee for the consumer. I would therefore like to ask you, with urgency, to urge the Minister to have the relevant documents looked at. Mr President, we do indeed have a past in this area. It's happened before. I looked it up real quick. At the Conference of Presidents of 16 July 2015, it was effectively decided that although there is confidentiality, Parliament and Members should be able to do their work. They must be able to see things in a closed room. This means that we cannot get the documents on our own. However, we can look at them and have them at our disposal. Madam Secretary, I am actually addressing the President. I do not see at all, since it was possible in the past with the convention in itself, why this could not be done now with the annexes. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I repeat that it is in everyone's interest that we should have this openness and transparency, on which the current majority is constantly talking in all kinds of cases. When it comes to our own dossiers, there is suddenly a lot less transparency. We all have an interest in transparency. Madam Minister, if you once again claim that you serve the public interest, you will report today that you will make those documents available. Mr President, I hope that you will insist, including the President of Parliament, who has not received an answer to his questions, that we can finally look at the documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u10	Mr President, normally we shouldn't have been here. If the functioning of our Parliament were normal, the information would have been clearly communicated to all members of the committee for a long time. Unfortunately, that is not the case. The request made at last week's plenary meeting was indeed to be able to come here. We all need transparency, clarity and explanations to understand what happened, not between the end of June and 15 September, but this last year. Indeed, in the documents that have arrived at us, it appears that you have been repeatedly drawn to certain dossiers and elements to be implemented so that the Tihange 1 Convention can be applied in a solid and credible manner. Everyone is asking for this transparency. Minister, it was simply a matter of applying an agreement, executing an agreement. It was no longer a matter of negotiating it. That convention existed. Unfortunately, the meandering of the application, your version changes and your explanations by which you drown the fish bring us back here to ask for this clarity and transparency. I can associate myself with this request for confidentiality. In the documents we have received, there are more confidential elements than information carriers. The printers must have worked a lot on the black. I would indeed like to have access to it as part of a data room. This has been mentioned, and case law exists. We are not going to invent the rule: it exists. I find that normally it can apply to this exercise. In conclusion, since we are still in the process, Mr President, I simply appeal to the Prime Minister's statements. He said very clearly: "We must make all the clarity, we must work in transparency, and a democratic debate must take place in parliament." If a democratic debate is to take place in Parliament, at the request of the Prime Minister too, we must have the elements of the file, the complete elements. For reasons that can be understood, economics, trade and trade relations (of which there is currently no visible element), parliamentarians in charge of the file could read these elements in a data room in order to have a global view of the file. Mr President, in order to carry out our work successfully, I really insist that we speak of the need for explanation and clarity in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u11	Madam Secretary, aren't you getting a little tired of meetings like this? In any case, it is my feeling that in this committee many fellow Members are ready to contribute to our energy future. However, by your actions and let alone at regular intervals we are confronted with moments like this. I had hoped you would have understood last week that quite a few fellow Members are bored with this situation. Last Tuesday we met exactly two and a half hours on this issue, with questions of majority and opposition, down to the depths to explore everything. Only forty-eight hours later it appeared again that you had only told half of the story. Again negligence, again half truths and untruths, on his Marghems. Madam Minister, what I personally blame you for is that you outlined a timeline last week and said that you were aware of it since 29 June 2016, while we know that you were aware of it since 9 October 2015. October 9th 2015! That was almost a year ago. Jacqueline Galant was then still Minister of Mobility. Since then, you have been aware of the problems with the convention around Tihange 1. You have failed to do what is necessary, hence a new committee meeting. Madam Minister, what I do not understand then is that you leave Parliament's question unanswered. Mr President, of course you are in charge of the work, but if you agree with that, I suggest that our committee should also look at the majority Members who played their part last week and reaffirm the questions put by the President of the Chamber. If the President of the Chamber is asking for transparency, we must support him in this, especially if the Minister does not give it at home. I therefore believe that the first item on our agenda should be to ask for these documents, especially since this dossier has a very long history. Again, I'm really tired of that file. We should be able to deal with matters other than a secret convention on an ancient nuclear power plant. However, we started with a secret convention in which the CREG could still play its part. Today we seem to end up with or slipping into a convention on which we do not get the information we need and in which the regulator is muzzled. So we are slipping further into this dossier. So the first point is getting information. I insist. In this context, I am also looking at the majority of my fellow Members, Mr Wollants, Mr Dierick, Mr Lachaert, who made it very clear last week that they also have questions. The President of the Chamber has asked for information and it is up to the Minister to share this information and her motivation with this committee. After all, I cannot accept, Madam Minister, that you do not want to share matters with us over and over again, when there are a lot of questions. Those questions were apparently there since 9 October 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u12	I thank the speakers for this first preliminary round. Mr Wollants, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this committee is indeed coming together to answer a number of questions. The Minister is also here to complete the timeline and answer all our questions. However, there are also a number of recent converts of transparency and recent supporters of the belief that everything should be made public. Two and a half years ago, we were in another room discussing this convention. I heard Mr Calvo say the same thing at the time. Others have spoken too, but some people I just haven't heard. If a secret convention is concluded, then I suppose the gentlemen and ladies who sign the convention know what's on that magazine. According to Mrs Lalieux, it is impossible for the secret conventions and transparency to proceed in this way. Then why is it above right, as a first signature, a certain Mr Di Rupo? I also wonder why besides...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u14	Do you have the copy anyway?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u15	Mr. Reynders and Mr. Chastel, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u16	Don't be silly. You also have a copy. I wonder why Mr Wathelet also signed that case and took it to the government, demanding that it remain secret. Today, converted as one is, one asks for disclosure. Those who made the deal with Electrabel and EDF now demand that everything be made public. It's from two cases one. It has to be a bit serious, Mrs. Lalieux. Can we proceed in a different way? I would be happy to enter into the debate here so that we can conduct the debate in depth, but I must say that we cannot make a pact with the devil in the previous legislature, so that we can now knock on the gates of heaven. It really doesn't work that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u17	I thought the first round had ended, but there are fellow Members asking to speak again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u18	This agreement, Mr Wollants, was actually signed by the previous government, with the approval of Mr Reynders in Kern, and with a Budget Minister who was validating the agreement for his field. I am not responding to you, since you were not a member of the previous government. But unlike you, the minister and her intellectual dishonesty, we assume what was done under the previous government. If, today, the minister puts the convention on the table with all its appendices, there is no problem. We will not oppose it, Mr. Wollants. There's no problem. Mr President, what we are demanding today... [[brouhaha]] I find this symptomatic of this government, and in particular of Mrs Marghem. When one is forced to this point by his own negligence, his faults, his laxism and his incompetence, one refers to the previous government, in which one was himself. That is the situation today. As they say, I'd like to ask Mrs. Marghem the real questions. Why did she not do anything, a year ago, about this convention she knew about? Why doesn't she answer the regulator? Why doesn't she give all the documents? These are today's questions, Mr. Wollants. Like you, I want answers and transparency. Like you, I fear, as usual, not to receive anything, apart from a great dose of arrogance. We can do the trial of the past. That's not the goal today. We assume the convention and will explain why. If it is put on the table today, we assume, even without data room, Mr Wollants, but stop talking about two years ago, about a government where you did not sit. They signed it. The convention bears two signatures of the MR, it seems to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u19	Mr Wollants, you have the floor for a personal statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u20	This convention has four signatures from the operators and only two from the government, one from the PS and one from cdH.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u21	Mr President, can we continue to play with words and nonsense when, today, the Belgian state is weakened by this government? It seems difficult for me to discuss when you are a member of this government and you have a difficult finance minister in a nearby room!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us talk about the facts. Two or three weeks ago, the newspapers published that the State would miss out on a number of millions as a result of the payments to be made by Electrabel and EDF. They're referring to a report. We then have a committee meeting, at which the Minister says she was aware of the CREG report of 22 June. A day later, we see that the Minister was already well aware of this, effective, as my fellow Members say, from October 2015. That's what this is about, Mr. Wollants. The minister was aware of this much earlier. The CREG had warned her much earlier that there was a problem with calculating some parameters within that convention and the Minister did not respond. It reacted far too late, at a number of intervals, actually beyond 15 September, while the convention stated that an expert had to be appointed before 15 September. We asked questions about this last week and we received answers to them which turned out to be incorrect a day later. That's what this is about. We are asking for transparency. Mr Wollants, I would like to remind you that in the previous legislature things could also be looked into in a data room. We're not asking for anything else now. We do not ask for all the annexes to be made public. We ask that the members of this committee should be able to look into matters, as was the case in the past and as decided by the Conference of Presidents, even in the past. That's all we're asking. Again, I'd like to stick to the facts. Madam Secretary told us vesicles last week. In fact, that is what it is all about, and I would like to remind you of this to the detriment of the consumer and to the benefit of two nuclear operators. Mr President, please let us talk about this. Can you insist once again that we should be able to look at the annexes, as in the past, Mr Wollants, in a data room?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u23	Mr President, I would remind colleagues that, with regard to the negotiations on Doel 1 and Doel 2, the government has been transparent. The government has given the conditions. All those who rouse because of the confidentiality of the convention...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u24	If everything was perfect, we wouldn't be here today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u25	...they have a share of responsibility in what they negotiated at the time. We take care of it. Colleagues, apparently you, the PS and the CDH, don't assume it. Mr President, I wish we could return to what is the subject of our meeting this afternoon and finally hear the minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u26	I agree with you on this very last point, Mrs Jadin. I shall still give the floor to the colleagues who have asked for it! I will then give a brief summary and I will give the floor to the minister to begin the exchange of views!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u27	Mr President, I am not going to try the past and the previous government here. Mrs. Jadin is right. We need to talk about the facts. I have before me Mr. Wathelet's letter to Mr. Flahaut, who was Speaker of the House at the time. What does Mr. Wathelet say? "Can I ask you to allow Members to consult this Convention, without making it public, in order to ensure its confidentiality?" These are facts, Mrs Jadin, we agree! Therefore, parliamentarians have had access to this convention. I come to a second consideration. We had a debate in the Conference of Presidents, which I reminded you of earlier. The decision was unanimous – and this is also a fact – there. So it does not involve the previous government or the previous majority, but all the parties that are represented in the Conference of Presidents. In its minutes of 16 July 2015, the Commission set a precedent in this case. Those are the facts, Mrs. Jadin. You can go against political opinions, but you cannot deny the facts. There are two precedents: that of Mr Wathelet and that of the case law. But, Mr. President, I'll tell you again, I'm talking to you, not the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u28	I wrote it down and I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u29	Mr President, why am I speaking to you? Because the CREG does not depend on the minister, but on parliament. I simply ask you to remind CREG that there is this decision of the Conference of Presidents and that there is a precedent for the previous convention. It is important that, in agreement with the Presidency of the House, we put in place the arrangements for the CREG to transmit to the data room the documents at its disposal. Other problematic documents were not distributed to us. It is in this respect that I will address the minister, but it will be a complement. I therefore make two separate requests. The first one is exclusively for you, Mr President, since the CREG depends on parliament. I ask you to contact her so that she can make the documents available to us, since the minister refuses to do so. But it doesn't matter, it's our job, since we're the ones who exercise control over the CREG, as was recalled in our debate with the Court of Auditors. Let us set up a data room here where the CREG would come to deposit the documents in its possession. At that time, we will ask the minister for a supplement. I only wish that the rules should be applied, because there are precedents, that the Conference of Presidents has taken a decision and that Parliament should exercise control over the CREG.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u30	Mr President, allow me to speak very briefly, because I think things are crystallizing. Firstly, there are documents directly linked to the convention. In this context, the question for a data room should be asked to the CREG. There must be no question of taking a step backwards; it must be exactly the same regime as before. Secondly, the President of the Chamber has asked the Minister for documents which are not covered by the Convention's confidentiality. Thirdly, I would like to address Mr Wollants - there is no contract signed that states that the Minister may lie to the committee about chronology in this matter. Why are we back together again? We are not sitting here together to discuss Article 8 of the Convention once again. What the Minister said last week, and I conclude with that, is that she was aware since the end of June 2016. In the meantime, it is clear that she was aware since October 2015. What I am asking the Minister is not to rewrite the convention and do the work of the previous government again. No one's asking. What we all need to ask is for it to stop running such a sensitive and important dossier in this way. That's gotta stop. Years ago, everything was on the table to properly collect every euro. Today we have a billion-dollar budget, we are sitting with a minister who for a year failed to collect all these millions. The convention has nothing to do with that. Minister Marghem had all the means to do so correctly. I think we can all agree on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u31	The last speaker for the order of business in the second round is Mr Wollants.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u32	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, despite the turbulent intro that people wanted to organize here, the consensus is that we want to hear answers and explain the convention. I think that's the question. We have taken a long time to achieve this. There was some show and spectacle, but now we have to listen to the answers about what happened and about the difficulties today. Mr Calvo says that this has nothing to do with the convention. However, I have the impression that there are some problems in this respect. If the documents of the CREG are included, this is also indicated. It's not all rose scent and moonshine with the convention. There's more to it than that. A number of gaps need to be closed to ensure that the convention is workable. Mr President, we have already received a great deal of input here, and I think it would be good to listen to the Minister now. It would be good to finally start the discussion on content on the basis of the timeline and the facts. Anyone present here, including the press and the public, sits here to hear exactly what's going on right now, and not for the show of the day.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u33	Thank you, Mr Wollants. That was exactly the purpose of the second round of interventions. Colleagues, it was my intention to move on to the exchange of views. I was the first to be questioned in this debate. I would therefore like to give some answers. I am confident that the debate on confidentiality will continue this afternoon. I have no doubt that the minister will talk about this, as well as the colleagues; everyone will have an opportunity to give their views on this. As Mrs Lalieux has said, I do believe that between, on the one hand, confidentiality, secrecy and, on the other hand, the transparency and control of Parliament over the action of the government, we must find the right balance and the right answer. It is with this in mind that we must work. I have received a very specific request from Mr Nollet, being the following: if it is secret, let us organise, as was done in the case of the Tihange 1 Convention and the debate on its extension, a data room, i.e. that all so-called confidential documents can be read under very specific conditions, without taking note, etc. There are indeed precedents. Mr Nollet, I reply that I am entirely in favour of this formula, because it seems to me that this is the only way in which Parliament can do its supervisory work and through which all the necessary transparency can be achieved in this matter. Mrs Temmerman calls to me: 'I hope you will insist on this.' I will reassure you, Mrs Temmerman, I will insist. A little remark. At the present stage, in the case of the Tihange 1 Convention, the Chamber had this document, which was in a safe. In this particular case, we are not in possession of the documents today. But we can ask them and, I imagine, get them. As for the question of the competence of the chairman of the Committee on the Economy. Thank you for considering that I have an immense power. The CREG works for the House, for the Parliament, not only for the Committee on the Economy, even if of course, the matters make that. On the question of the competence of my presidency, I intend to discuss it with the Speaker of the House. I believe that Mr Bracke has demonstrated his willingness to work for all Members and to ensure transparency. I have every confidence that he will continue with this logic. On the basis of your request, supported by other colleagues, I intend to speak after this committee with the President, Mr Bracke, to set up this data room. That's what I meant. I propose that we keep this on the agenda. The agenda provides for an exchange of views with the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u34	Can we have a return to the Conference of Presidents tomorrow? If you talk to the President today, we can take stock tomorrow in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u35	Absolutely. Last Thursday, I did it during the plenary. Today, I will do it after this meeting. But I will do it very quickly. Minister, we had a debate on the same subject a week ago. Questions were asked. Some documents have been transmitted. In this exchange of views, I propose that you give us the state of play of the case, possibly already answers to what has been expressed, so that we can then have, with the colleagues, the exchange of views which is on the agenda this afternoon. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to explain to you at the head of the chapter that, as you know, and some of you are analysing it in a way that is sometimes salient to me, I am obliged to operate and work within the framework of this convention – this is the subject of our debates – in an environment that is quite constrained. It is an environment constrained by decisions of the past, by the confidentiality agreement of this Convention, and thus also by laws and regulations. This confidentiality is governed by a set of democratic rules, which we know and which I have already had the opportunity to remind you very much on several occasions in committee and in plenary in 2015. Two Ecolo-Groen parliamentarians then wanted to turn their request for publicity of this convention into a motion for a resolution. Only the Speaker of the House, who was empowered to give his opinion, said that he did not want them to turn their request for publicity into a motion for a resolution. That is precisely what was decided by the Conference of Presidents in July 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u37	No!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u38	Yes, I have the extract here. I'll read it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u39	The Minister has the floor. You'll react later, Mr. Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u40	This is the conclusion of the Conference of Presidents on 16 July. "The Conference of Presidents finally agrees to organise a data room as soon as possible. It will be accessible only to members of the Conference of Presidents. The text of the Convention will be available, on the one hand, and the text of the motion for a resolution, on the other." That is the subject of the debate: your motion for a resolution. I have forwarded, or can do so here, your motion for a resolution, your legal analysis forwarded to the President, and the President's reply. It states that this confidentiality should be respected and that this motion for a resolution should not be made, for the sake of the simple reason that the State would incur its responsibility and that the House would commit its credibility. It's written here. I am your reasoning because I am completely open to all formulas. The chairman of the committee, present here, will meet with the Speaker of the House on this matter. Mr Nollet, I read very precisely that the Conference of Presidents is talking about the text of the Convention and your motion for a resolution. "The Conference of Presidents will meet again in the course of next week – question point – to discuss the admissibility of the proposal for its possible publication". So the purpose, quite precise and circumscribed, was your motion for a resolution, which tended to want to introduce in your resolution the text of the convention to ensure its publicity on the basis of a legal analysis that you had made on 7 July and addressed to the President. I mention this to put things in perspective. That means that you, too, are obliged, and we are all here, to intervene, to work in a coerced environment, where you must respect the rules, laws and regulations and the functioning of this Parliament. Since then, apart from the agreement that was published on the RTBF website on July 10, 2015, by a happy chance – which is not a problem – it is clear that you have still not taken your responsibilities. You said, it was written in the parliamentary annals report, that you were going to take your responsibilities. Since I would not, when I have no power to do so, publish this convention, you were going to do it! You still haven't done it! The truth, Mr Nollet, is that the previous government decided, by convention, to cover the confidentiality of the content of this convention by agreement and that this agreement must be respected. What does the Civil Code say? I have already said this on several occasions, and you have taken up this argument in its time. Article 1134 of the Civil Code says that the Convention makes the law of the parties! That is, the Belgian State, in its previous government, and the parties, have decided that their law would be that the Convention, its text, its annexes and all related applications would be covered by confidentiality. I would like to please you, and I would like to do everything I can to give you as much information as possible, but I cannot do so because I would take responsibility for the State! This is not allowed to me! Mr President, today I again asked the owners whether or not, and this is not the first time I have done so, they agreed to lift this confidentiality, which would solve all the problems! For the Belgian State, there is no problem, this government agrees with transparency. As Mrs Jadin pointed out, in the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2, we made a convention that was signed on 30 November 2015. On December 1, 2015, the next day, you had all of this convention, its annexes, with the formulas and everything that follows in a completely transparent way! So I would, of course, like the same to apply to this convention. But I have interviewed the owners and, for the time being, I have a reply from Mr Pruvot from EDF who says that he wants to maintain confidentiality. That's the whole difficulty of this case. I'm going to go into the file right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u41	Minister, if I may, we will distribute this document.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u42	It didn't stop you from having the data room... because you're arguing...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u43	The Minister gave her answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u44	Listen to me. When you asked me, in plenary session in June 2015, to question,... I remember very well. Mrs Lalieux, everyone has had the opportunity to speak, so I think that I too.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u45	I didn't interrupt you, minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u46	No, but you're making signs...!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u47	Let us not interpret sign language. You have the floor, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u48	So when you asked me in June 2015 to interview the owners, I did. Gérard Mestrallet said he was not opposed to a data room. It's no longer Gérard Mestrallet, so I'm going to have to question Mrs. Kocher. I did, it's okay. And Mr. Lévy d-EDF said that he didn't even agree... Mr. Lamotte, I didn't interrupt you! When I speak, you're not listening, are you not interested?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u49	Minister, I am not a woman, but I can still do several things at once. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u50	I propose that you do not question colleagues, minister, come to the bottom with your arguments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u51	Mr. Lévy was opposed to a data room. If now there is a discussion between the chairman of this commission and the Speaker of the House, I am quite in agreement with what is going to be decided and I am trying to do everything possible to inform you. As far as the substance of the problem is concerned, first of all, you want to know what has been done since I was aware of it. And I never denied it! You won't find anywhere that I'm saying I don't know that parameters have been a problem since that date. No! Mr President, I would like to have the floor without being interrupted! So, what happened? I was negotiating the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2, you will remember, in 2015. July, August, September 2015, I am with the owner of Doel 1 and 2, Electrabel, negotiating the extension and the agreement that will be released on November 30, 2015. At that time, I am concerned about how the previous government worked. I therefore take up the Tihange 1 Convention and ask the CREG, as early as September, to ensure that simulations are made on the Tihange 1 Convention. You saw the list of the mails I referred to. This obviously implies that the formula in the annexes should be acted upon. There's a five-mail correspondence exchange with the CREG, which I've detailed for you. Within these letters are the two letters that the CREG sent to you at your request by redacting the sensitive elements which are linked to the substance of the Convention, i.e. the commercial and industrial elements, which the CREG is obliged to comply with barely criminal sanctions. She recalls this; she says that she has a special mission and that, in this special mission, she has a particular professional secret which, if she relaxes, leads to criminal sanctions in her head. This is the responsibility of the CREG and that is why it sends you its report of 30 June redacted from the sensitive elements and two letters of 9 October and 17 December, redacted from the sensitive elements. I will give you details of all the letters and exchanges I have had with the CREG from September 7 to December 2015. What do I do during that time? Well, I'm negotiating and I'm negotiating the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 and I realize, in the exchanges with CREG, that Tihange 1's simulations are not favourable and that Tihange 1's convention is going to be practically nothing to do with the state or, in future years, nothing at all. So I don't want that. Of course, in agreement with the government and in the negotiations with Electrabel, I say: "I would now like a package". I would like a package because I want to be sure that I have, in the state coffers for ten years, a sum that allows me to feed a fund for the energy transition, on the storage and production of new electricity, so new ways of producing technologically efficient electricity. And so, I want to have money to give it to projects to help us in the energy transition. So I say, "This is how it is." And we finally decide, in common with Electrabel, to make this package. I presented this file. It was voted in June-July 2016 on the fee which is the counterpart to the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2. You know what's next. So, at that time, once I have finished my negotiation with Electrabel, the CREG sends me another letter on December 17, 2015 and I ask the CREG – also because I told you about it, let's go back to the base of everything – I told you that I was doing simulations on Tihange 1. In the course of the parliamentary debates, I told you about these letters with the CREG. Already at the time, you asked me to be able to dispose of it. As you can see in the file that I forwarded to the Speaker of the House and that was communicated to you, on Sunday, January 24, I wrote to the CREG by e-mail, to see if I could pass on all the exchanges with the CREG, what I wanted to do. The CREG told me this. I would like to read some passages from the CREG's response to allow you to measure the situation in which I have to evolve and what constraints I have to face in relation to my work. The CREG tells me first of all: "It is not because third parties would come to publish the convention that it can be published." So it is explained to me that if third parties ever published this convention, that is to say someone other than me, since I am not a third party to the convention (I am the Belgian State), we could not consider this convention to be public. The following paragraph states: "It is clear from the agreement of 12 March 2014 on the extension of the operating period of the Tihange 1 plant that the parties to this agreement, including the Belgian State, which has reached the same level as the operators, have intended to maintain its confidential content. The fact that information relating to this Convention may have been disseminated by third parties does not have the effect of making the Convention public. CREG, which has been notified of this agreement because of the tasks assigned to it by the agreement, in accordance with the law, is obliged to comply with the wishes of the parties and to maintain its confidential content. Therefore, all the elements in the above-mentioned letters" – therefore all the letters I exchanged with the CREG, which are in the email of my collaborator sent on 24 January, you can check – "which can give information about the content of this agreement, must be considered confidential. In addition, these letters contain information traditionally considered commercially sensitive or specific to the provisions of the Tihange 1 Convention, such as details of cost, sale price, investments, etc. Nor can this information be disclosed. In line with what is provided for in its Rules of Procedure, CREG also consulted interested companies" – it did the same thing as I did – "Electrabel and EDF Belgium, in order to have their views on the confidentiality of the information contained in the above-mentioned letters. At the time that I am sending you this e-mail, neither of them, present at a meeting convened this afternoon at the CREG" – so on the 25th of January afternoon – "did not, however, have the time to officially confirm to us that it considered the information contained in the above-mentioned letters to be confidential. This leads us to the utmost caution. The removal of confidential information making mail virtually unreadable, and taking into account the urgency, the CREG considers at this stage that all the above-mentioned letters should be considered confidential." I spoke to you about this in committee on 26 January while we were discussing the text of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 fee and all the subjects relating to this extension. The CREG therefore continued its work. She communicated to you, at your request, a redacted version of the letters she thought related to your request, throughout the exchange that I had with her. I'm continuing my story about parameters. I'm starting from the principle that I can't give them. I continue my work, and I see what you can read in my letter to the President: Electrabel and EDF have met several times in February and March. You see it in the letter I sent to the President on page 3/5, before item 3. At the same time, I say: "various meetings were held, on the one hand, with the CREG in October and on the 3rd and 10th of December, and, on the other hand, with Electrabel on the 4th of February, 18th of March and 24th of March." And why not then? Because, as the CREG tells you in its redacted report, the one it sent you, as of March 31, it must receive, as the law requires, all the supporting documents of Electrabel and EDF in order to be able to carry out its task of verifying the costs and revenues of the Tihange 1 plant in order to verify whether the amounts paid by Electrabel on April 15, 2016, and by EDF a little after that date, correspond well. Indeed, the costs are now being verified, which was not the case at the end of 2015 - I will come back - according to the formula, to what the operators had to pay to the Belgian State. Therefore, for three months, the CREG will work on these documents in interaction with Electrabel and EDF and will produce the report that the law asks it to produce on the verification of costs and revenues, at the end of June 2016. After that, I receive this report, and I see, in relation to the mail I received at the end of 2015, that now the CREG has very precise elements and can start to give me an idea of the elements that the fee contains and allowing to say, on April 15, whether Electrabel and EDF paid enough or not. As I explained last week, I see several assumptions made by the CREG in its report – read them; I can read them to you – that result in different amounts. What am I doing at that time? I ask my collaborator to have the CREG explain why we arrive at several different amounts according to certain parameters. At that time – as I explained to you last week – my collaborator contacted the CREG, asked various questions at a meeting on 19 July. The CREG works on these different questions and returns to us – this is holiday time – on August 11, with answers. And you see that there is an e-mail that the CREG transmits, redacting again everything that it considers it necessary to remove because it reaches the sensitive confidential information that it must hold in its hands, as its internal rules and the law want, and by which it responds to me. From that moment on, I contact the operators again and I say to them: "Listen, I have here a report from the CREG, which you know, with different amounts. So, I'm gonna have to claim you the highest amount. You have several amounts; you paid $7.2 million and I will have to claim the highest amount." So, or else, we're okay,... And anyway, what does that show? That's why we need to change the parameters. There are parameters that exist from the beginning, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u52	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u53	I went to see the preparatory work, which was done in November 2013 until 2014. 2014, this is the time when, in fact, in this data room, parliamentary colleagues who were members of the majority and the opposition, of all the parties represented here, found themselves and were able to have access to this whole convention. So we can see very clearly that this convention poses different difficulties because of the complexity of its formula and by parameters, as I said last week, which no longer existed or which are obsolete. In this preparatory work, I see, for example – preparatory work 3087, pages 10 and 24 –: "CREG has verified the convention". Thus, at the time the convention was established, there was a work of interaction between the government and the CREG, particularly with regard to the compliance of the convention with the legislation under consideration. The opinion delivered by CREG on 23 October 2013 is entitled - Mr Calvo speaks about it in his speeches -: "the feasibility and compliance between the draft law and the draft convention on the extension of Tihange 1." Parliamentarians also saw, not only the difficulties of this convention, but that the supposed performance, which the convention was about to yield, was overstated. Mr Wollants spoke on page 34 to explain it. He said, for example, that it was already known that operators would not pay the mark in the event of negative price developments. Mr Schiltz, on the other hand, said: "If AFCN and CREG analyse data or make proposals and the operator contests their opinion – that's exactly what is happening now – an external third party could intervene." He's the expert. "How does the Secretary of State see this situation?" "It is appropriate (Mr Schiltz) to prevent the system from running out from the first decision of the CREG. Can the Secretary of State guarantee that the system will continue to work and will not be paralyzed at the slightest problem?" I conclude by telling you that, when the parameters have been known by parliamentarians in the data room, we can see very well on some pages of the formula, since it is said textually in some places that a parameter does not exist, it is the famous quarterly parameter to which the CREG refers. This is where the present government did not want to fall. And that is why the current government has decided to make a package and to exclude any inaccuracies, any difficulties of application by not using a formula that would be problematic. We don't have a lot of solutions anymore. Now we're in a conventional setting. The conventional framework is like a marriage, it's done to two. Here, in this case, it's three. So we have to agree. We have the convention that marks this situation of divergence of views since it provides that there is an external third party that will resolve the differences of opinion. The CREG gives different opinions and opinions. I rely on the CREG to ask for the maximum. You do not agree, and so we will have to formalize a challenge, because we have to get the convention to act, and we have to make sure that this expert is appointed. What did I do? I sent the mail of September 13, 2016. In this letter, you see on page 2 (on the back) a small table in which I indicate that the Belgian state is 10.3 million. I'll show you this mail and I'll comment on it. I'll read it to you, so no one will ignore the content of it. In this mail, I say this page 1. I write to Electrabel and EDF. "On the basis of the parameters and definitions contained in the Convention, you have forwarded to the CREG the calculation elements relating to the margin assessment for the period from 1 October 2015 to 31 December 2015 and paid the undisputed amount, which you do not dispute, in favour of the State." This is summarized on page 60 of the annex to the CREG report and there is a table from which information relating to operating expenses, the overnight pay and the negative balance of previous periods, which are industrial and commercial information, had to be removed. But you see that, on the margin of the reference period, this leads to an amount of 70% in favour of the State: 10.3 x 70% = 7.2. This is the calculation of the operators, first table. Second table, I say, "In accordance with its audit mission, CREG has analysed the reported revenues and costs." This is explained in the attached report. The results of this verification mission lead to a difference of up to...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u54	"Go to."
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u55	Wait! I always said it. I said it in the press, I told you last week, there are several amounts that are calculated by the CREG according to different parameters and different options that it takes. The maximum amount, therefore "up to" is the amount of 10.2 million, i.e. the balance that would have to be paid between what the operators (7.2) and 10.2 have paid, which I put in my table, Mr Nollet. I make a table for the operators and put them: "Marges of the reference period: 14.6 million x 70% = 10.2 million, in favour of the State." I'm putting this in my painting. On the basis of the audit report of the CREG, pursuant to Article 8 of the Convention which we are talking about: "I ask you to pay the balance of the fee referred to in Article 4 for this 30 September."
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u56	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u57	No! Why then would they have told me that they were contesting?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u58	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u59	I'm going to sue, Mr. Nollet. I'm writing them a number, that's the number!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u60	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u61	Mr Nollet, you really take the people of Electrabel and EDF for fools who can't read a picture! I put on a painting, which is their painting, and then I put on my painting. There's a difference of three million but they don't know how to calculate it! Then I tell them to pay me the balance. Otherwise, I would have put another painting and put another amount, and I could do it because it existed in the work of the CREG! It is obvious that, contrary to what is claimed – I am not going to make a personal attack here, I am going to globalize – I am acting in the interests of the state and the citizens! That is why I am asking for the maximum amount on the basis of the work of the CREG. Of course, I know that the operators disagree. Otherwise, they would have paid more. In addition, they want to discuss the parameters that are problematic and that everyone has always known – even if you did not sit yet, but Mr Calvo was there. I immediately announce that there will be no agreement and that in the event of a dispute, it will be up to the President of the Institute of Corporate Reviewers to decide. Then, Electrabel writes to me – and you have seen the letters – invoking Article 8: "We dispute what you are asking and we do not want to pay that amount. We contest the results of the verification mission carried out by CREG. Therefore, we do not agree to pay the balance of the fee as you ask us in your above-mentioned letter." They know what! "In an effort to propose a constructive solution, however, we are prepared to consider the appointment of an expert in the near future and by mutual agreement – as provided for in the Convention – as I say. The expert's mission will be to analyse the points of divergence contained in the CREG report and to express an opinion on each of them." Mr Pruvot is, for his part, very stoned and to the point. He writes: "I confirm on behalf of EDF that we agree with the appointment of an independent expert to decide the issue of the Tihange 1 fee for 2015." We then continue the discussion and carry out the work envisaged by the convention. Mr Nollet, you laugh, but that's how it is! Even without my glasses, I see you! I'm myopic, but I see you're smiling about me. We therefore continue our work and ensure, since the convention dictates our course of action, as it makes the law of the parties, to seek several firms of revisers to find an expert who would be technically and with the necessary independence to carry out this mission, which is basically that of a judge. This means that, from the outset, it had been agreed between the parties that, in order to deal with the difficulties which they knew would not fail to arise in the convention, an expert judge of the figures would decide their possible disputes. Since the CREG has examined for three months in a very meticulous manner and plays its role as an independent body in the interests of citizens and in the interests of the State, the parties know very well in advance that the CREG will optimize all the data it has in order to try to find, in accordance with the formula it complies with and the convention, the fair fee which it considers should be paid to the State. But the convention allows for the challenge, especially since this expert exists. Otherwise, what would the convention have said? She would have said, "CREG slices." But, in reality, the convention could not say "the CREG tranche". It could only say so if the law had provided that it was the CREG that decided. However, the law does not provide that it is the CREG which settles. The law provides that it is the CREG that verifies. It's a verification mission, not a control mission. This problem was raised at the time by the Council of State, which found that the verification mission was insufficient and Mr Calvo pointed out it at the time by saying: "This is obviously a problem."
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u62	In fact, you've been aware of this since last week's intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u63	I've read all this with interest. I'd read it before. As a matter of fact, I have been familiar with the work of the convention and the law of 2013 since the beginning of all our nuclear work. I have read, with great interest, the work of Tihange 1. Remember that, in a plenary session that lasted until 1 or 2 in the morning, through the various opinions of the State Council on the extension law of Doel 1 and Doel 2 voted in June 2015, I made a comparison between the opinions of the State Council that had been given in the framework of Tihange 1 and those that were rendered and their evolution in the framework of Doel 1 and Doel 2. It's been a long time since I've read all this. I'm talking about all this because I have a fairly long knowledge of everything that has been said in the nuclear chapter. On the other hand, as Mr Wollants pointed out, the same arguments still emerge. It is therefore not too difficult to retain them either. They are found both in the debate in 2013 and now. Having said that, Mr President, after this small digression, if you will allow me, I am continuing and saying that we are trying to get the convention that provides for the appointment of an expert to act, by soliciting firms with the broadest expertise and asking them to declare their independence so that the case can break the deadlock and we have that figure. Of course, but some have interpreted it in their own way, it seems to me that, in order to fully respect the nuances of the law on public procurement - you have seen the Janson Baugniet study in this area - we must not resort to it, but we are still trying to ensure that we have all the guarantees that several firms are asked for, that independence is certain and the strongest and that the work can be done diligently. It is the government that will make the decision. I would still like to explain this to you. The government is not going to make a decision to overlook the identity of an expert. The government will simply verify that the expert who can be chosen by common agreement between the parties – an agreement between the parties, according to the agreement – has the necessary guarantees of independence and quality of expertise. It is always the movement that I feel come back and that is legitimate. It has already been expressed also by the Council of State, saying that this conventional formula does not belong to a State in regal matters but, for the extension of Tihange 1, you did; for the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2, we did. There are other conventions that exist in different executive branches. Mr Tuybens, in the preparatory work for 2013, also mentioned this. We can go back to that earlier, to Mr Tuybens' statements at the time, which are particularly illuminating. I believe that all past and present parliamentarians are fully aware of the quality or non-quality of this convention, which leads to the difficulties that I, the heir of the decision that has been taken, must manage today with the government as best as possible, in the interests of the state and the citizens. I would like to tell you that the government is doing what it has to do, advances in trying to be as consistent as possible with the constraints imposed on it, to be proactive in relation to this, so that, within the 2016 financial year, we can recover what must legitimately come back to the state, according to the formula agreed under the Tihange 1 Convention. That is what is important and it shows that, contrary to what is said, there is nothing lost for the Belgian State or for the citizen, since the State is making sure, within the conventional framework I am talking about, to act in the interests of the citizens by doing everything it takes to recover that sum and by appointing the expert. This is the method chosen by the convention. We can't help it, there's nothing to do; we have to do it, and we do it, to reach that sum. One last detail on the deadline because I think you're going to tell me again, as we did last week! Let's not hide from it. I want to be absolutely clear with you, and transparent on all the elements that I am able, in the power, in the possibility of giving you, with the CREG on one side that tells me that..., with respect for confidentiality that tells me that..., with the operators who tell me that... As far as the deadline is concerned, therefore, we have commissioned a legal study on public procurement, on confidentiality and its consequences – I mentioned – and on the deadline. I said last week already, but I am not the witness of my own cause, that this delay was not a strict deadline. I wasn't the only one who said it. Mr. Lachaert had also pointed out this. The legal analysis confirms that, indeed, this is not a strict deadline. This means that this period is not subject to a penalty in the Convention that, once the deadline has been exceeded, nothing can be done, which would mean that the Belgian State could no longer claim anything from the operators on the basis of the CREG study. That's not the case. That time limit simply exists. It marks the work of the parties within the convention. It shall not sanction the appointment of the expert after that period. There is no sanction. There is simply a work of the parties to try to reach the amount corresponding to the formula agreed upon and authorized by the law that you voted in 2013. These are the global explanations. I did this spontaneously. I had a text, but I thought it was better to talk to you spontaneously. I said everything in the text, practically. I am of course at your disposal to answer your questions. I have no doubt that there will be many of them. I will, in the time allotted to me, make all the light and every possible effort, given the constraints on me, to answer your questions after this presentation. I'm done, Mr. President, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u64	Mr President, Madam Minister, there is one thing that we are all certain of here, and we have still experienced during your hour of explanation, as we have experienced before, is your ability to smoke to hide your inaction, your negligence, your laxity, your flight of responsibility. You're really comfortable, I recognize it and I admire you, stinging about procedures and rewriting history. I will write you another one with very specific questions to which I have absolutely no answer. What we are interested in today, minister, is not the confidentiality of the convention, which is a secret of policy, but your total inaction and your serious shortcomings in this matter, which I will demonstrate to you. The most serious aspect on your side and in the head of your firm is that you do not take any action to assure the state and consumers that nuclear producers pay well what they owe them. We're going back to the CREG and the fact that she warned you a year ago. First of all, I see a leak in front of your responsibilities. You have demonstrated this again remarkably this afternoon. Minister, we really need to stop being so arrogant about your predecessors and dissipate these smoke screens. While you haven't done anything in a year, you're going back to sending the ball back to the previous Secretaries of State, forgetting that Mr Reynders, Deputy Prime Minister and Mr Chastel, Minister of Budget, had validated the agreement – the budget still having to approve them, as well as the calculations. And I will not confront Mr Clarinval, whom you have forgotten to quote, by omitting that, under the previous legislature, in the name of the MR, he had been dithyrambic in relation to this convention. You can ask your collaborator to read his comments of the time earlier. Minister, I do not want to argue or question my colleague, since he is not present in committee. It's not my habit. Simply, you didn't do your job. To hide your inaction, you're talking about the responsibility of the former government. Stop exonerating yourself from your responsibilities! This almost becomes intellectual dishonesty, minister. I say it by weighing my words. Very sincerely, I do not consider this to raise politics. Besides, you are guilty of laxity, as I said earlier, towards Electrabel. It is a powerful and even dominant operator. You have not taken all the necessary steps to make him pay his dues to the Belgian State, and I will show that in a moment. On the other hand, this government is acting very quickly - as the decree that came out after a month - to get the consumer to contribute. I would remind you of your increase in VAT from 6 % to 21 %, while the producers do not pay their dues. We will see what gifts you will make, in your next bill, as part of the royalties you will change for the other nuclear power plants. We denounced another scandal last week. You haven't answered either this week. Nor do we have the mission letter from the expert I asked for. We asked for it, but we didn't get it. You decided to give the expert – and you told us last week – the definition of a new parameter following Article 16.3 of the Convention. This article states that it is the role of the State to negotiate with the producer, not that of an expert appointed in cooperation between the producers and the Belgian State. You once again put the CREG on the side and thus weaken this Belgian state. Another conclusion, Mr. President, can be drawn from the attitude of the minister and her cabinet: that the minister is unable to resist nuclear producers. We saw it for Doel 1 and Doel 2. We will see it for the next fee, and we have seen it in this file. This lack of control leads to a lack of resistance against nuclear producers. These are very specific questions that, Madam Minister, you did not answer at all in this smoke that you gave us for an hour. On October 9, 2015, the CREG warns you that certain parameters included in the Tihange 1 convention have become obsolete. She said it on October 9, and added that they should be replaced. In this October 9th letter, you forget to say it, it asks you to activate Article 16.3 of the Tihange Convention which expressly provides for the renegotiation of the parameters. She specifically asks you: you like to read things again, I like it too. You're not reacting. Nothing, nada, you don't do anything. She asks you the same thing again, despite your three meetings, on December 17, when your meetings are over. The CREG further recalls that, under Article 16.3 of the Tihange 1 Convention, it asks you to renegotiate the parameters so that in March, precisely, when it has to analyse what producers owe under this Convention, there is no dispute and that it can do its work properly. But in your leader, it's total inaction! I know why you're not doing anything, you said it here! You were negotiating Doel 1 and Doel 2, you were doing something else! As you were also at the limit of the negotiations – I would remind you that the Prime Minister had to take up the matter – you are not activate Article 16.3 of this Convention and you are therefore weakening the State. Minister, why, in October, why didn't you activate section 16.3 in December? Is it activated today? Have you notified CREG to activate Article 16.3? You're going to say it's too late, the dispute is here. But it's too late for you! Minister, we wouldn't be here if you had handled this file properly. It's negligent, it's very negligent. I ask you today a question that I asked you last week because you did not convince me. You didn't want to secure the calculation method. This is a fact, with the letters of the CREG and the non-activation of Article 16.3. The question I have, apart from your mistakes, your negligence and your inaction, is whether it is a deliberate will in relation to a producer to whom this government makes a lot of gifts. You were on the line at that time to negotiate the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2. Why didn't you tell us last week about these applications from the CREG in October and December? Why did you hide in Parliament – we're going to lie by omission, Mr.President – these two requests from the CREG to activate Article 16.3? However, this convention has been discussed at length. Is it launched today? If so, with which negotiator? I share with you the objective observation that EDF and Electrabel paid 7.2 million. Again, I didn't get any explanations, unless I heard the wrong thing. Indeed, you did not tell us why you did nothing after 16 June, why you waited for August and then 13 September, not respecting the deadlines. These are not strict deadlines, I can hear you well. That said, it's still special. You're ordering a legal analysis on September 20 or 21.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u65	September 23rd. I got it yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u66	On September 23, you ask a lawyer's office to tell you if September 15 is a strict deadline. It's a very special way of working. If the office had responded positively, you would have been out of agreement anyway. Although this was not a strict deadline, the previous government and parliament had included in the convention a deadline of 15 September. By not respecting it, while you could do so since the CREG had written to you on January 16, you show that the government is not fulfilling its obligations. Why, then, will operators comply with a convention? As always, you weaken the state's position by always playing the reckless. Then we talked about amounts up to 10.3 million. Mr. Nollet will come back.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u67	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u68	When you sent the full CREG report to both operators, was that really what had to be done, Minister? In this report, there are arguments for the federal state to defend itself against producers. Therefore, why do you weaken the state by playing open book in front of producers who are now challenging three million euros? You have told us that you have always wanted, of course, the competition to appoint the experts. I can hear you here, but I read the weekend papers. In Le Soir, we explain rather than IKW (as we say in the jargon), intercabinets are taking place and your request has been repackaged because you did not compete. You designated PwC. Little story, without wetting it, Mr. Geens' son works there, in the energy part. I hope you will tell us the truth: did you initially compete? I hope the majority will tell us the truth, because they know what's going on in intercabinets. Did the minister actually propose, at the intercabinets meeting, several companies that could provide an expert, or did she propose only one? I also call to the truth this majority who was in intercabinets. We have asked for the intercabinets and we have not received them, Mr President, nor have we received the letters of mission, as I recall here. But was competition really appropriate in this context? I would also like to know, Madam Minister, whether you have drafted a specification to define the expert's mission, in order to verify whether you are applying only section 8.3 or also section 16.3. If there is a specification for the expert's mission, I would like you to refer it to the chairman of the committee. How will you guarantee the independence of this expert? Another thing: in the Convention, it is stated that Electrabel and EDF must commit themselves to respecting the expert's decisions. Have they committed themselves to respecting the expert's decisions, yes or no? That's a simple question. Finally, minister, why did you announce on September 16, 2016, to say the opposite on September 17 - we had this discussion earlier - that there was no dispute with the producers? You say on the 16th, we have your press releases, while on the same day, these two operators refuse to pay more than 7.5 million. On the 16th, you say: there is no dispute. On the 17th, you say the opposite, and that you will claim. But on the 16th, there are emails from operators saying that they are challenging the 3 million, and that they will pay no more than 7.5 million. Why did you say that on the 16th? Don't you read the content of your mailbox? Or did you not want to tell the truth - I'm going to say things like this - to the public? Finally, you say that nothing is lost, but I'm going to tell you that nothing is yet won, because of your negligence. You can look up to heaven, minister. It would not be in a dispute if, simply, you and your collaborators, although it was you who assumed political responsibility, had, a year ago, activated Article 16.3 provided for in the convention so much described here. It's easy to sneeze on a convention. If you'd just done your job... you're not doing your job and this is, for the moment, a loss of profits for the state. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u69	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, we have heard a lot about this issue. Many elements have also been reported in the press. As far as I am concerned, this statement is very clear. It contains a chronology, a sequence of facts, which allows them to be restored in their context. The facts and nothing but the facts. First, I will come to the convention. It has become clear to us that this Convention is not clear and has not been well negotiated. It is sufficient to refer to what the CREG writes in its various letters, be it the letter of 9 October or the letter of 17 December. It states in its report on the amount to be paid by producers that it is an unclear, poorly drafted and poorly negotiated agreement. The second is the issue of confidentiality. We're a long way from what you negotiated for Doel 1 and Doel 2. You played transparency. On the subject of intellectual dishonesty, it should be noted here that it is those who have signed confidentiality that forget it as soon as they have signed it. I think that is where intellectual dishonesty lies. The third point: the opposition wanted us to believe that the state had lost EUR 4 million in the case. In fact, the State has lost nothing at all at this stage since the amount of this nuclear fee is still to be formally determined by an independent expert. This expert, whom the opposition is busy disposing of, will be appointed according to the terms that the previous government had set. Who was in that government at the time? The PS, the sp.a, the cdH, are those who today denounce the appointment of an independent expert.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u70	You're saying, Mr. Friart, that Mr. Reynders can't negotiate!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u71	Political parties have validated the Di Rupo-Wathelet Convention. 01.57 (...): The MR was not there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u72	Wasn't the MR there?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u73	All this to say that if this expert pays off, if he asks for the additional €3 million, the operators will have to comply with it. The State, no matter what, will have lost nothing since it will receive its dues. The government will decide how the expert will be appointed. It will, in any case, ensure that all guarantees in terms of prevention of conflicts of interest are present. In addition to the issue of the 2015 fee, it also seems legitimate for this expert to give a unambiguous interpretation of the formula provided for in the Tihange 1 Convention, which has demonstrated its limitations. This second part of the independent expert's mission is also more necessary than ever. Indeed, this will restore legal certainty between the parties, but also that in the future, we are trying to avoid wasting so much time and money. All these experts cost a lot of money, most certainly. Can it be assumed that the objection would prefer that the taxpayer pay an independent expert each year to decide the interpretations of this agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u74	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u75	We'll see about that in the next few weeks. I assume the minister will keep us informed. Once again, we are far away from the 125 million promised at the time. Since we were talking about a dithyrambic colleague, I had noted in L'Echo of 15 March 2014, a statement by Mr Melchior Wathelet, which said: "Over ten years, we should be between 1 billion and 1.2 billion." I think we'll be far from it! With regard to the date of September 15 – as you recalled, Madam Minister – it is not a strict deadline. Once an agreement has been reached between the parties, the procedure will proceed. That's what's happening today. Finally, there was never a question of short-circuiting the CREG, as some wanted to suggest, on the occasion of this arbitration by an independent expert. It is simply to ensure the strict application of the Convention. The CREG, to which the law confers, as a reminder, a role of verification of the Tihange 1 royalty, will be maintained. It will continue to play its role once the independent expert has decided on the interpretation to be given to the royalty formula. Minister, energy is an important issue, both for our businesses and our citizens, for our energy independence. And the stakes in this area are many: the vision and the energy pact, the supply, the energy transition. Also the promotion of offshore wind, renewable energies, etc. It is high time to stop shaking scarecrows, pouring into the caricature. We must get back to work, we must equip our country with something that has been terribly lacking in recent years: an ambitious energy policy in the short, medium and long term. In any case, you can count on the support of our group to achieve this ambitious goal. Thank you, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u76	Mr President, Minister, last week there were a lot of insinuations in the press, as well as a lot of uncertainties. The owners of Tihange 1 would have paid too little. Last week, at the committee meeting, we called for transparency and clarity. You have given us a timeline that has given us some answers to our questions. Admittedly, when two letters appeared from the CREG in plenary, I had to frown my eyebrows and I wondered what was going on again. It is good that immediate action was taken by the President of the Chamber and that a letter was sent to request all possible documents. We can only hope that this will give us clarity. You have replied, Madam Minister, and forwarded a lot of documents. I understand that you must respond in a difficult context, because you must guarantee the confidentiality against which violations must not be committed. I understand that it must certainly be done with caution, but I also think that we in Parliament should be clear and have some sort of insight into all the documents, hence the suggestion that we should consider whether we can work with a data room. That is a possibility that will hopefully be further explored. I absolutely want transparency, but I do not want to compromise confidentiality. We must ensure that we do not have any problems with this, but I hope that this suggestion will be considered further by this committee. We can still debate for hours whether or not a piece should be released, but I think we should spend our time on a solution through a different formula. For me, the most important thing is that we quickly clarify how much nuclear interest is to be paid effectively and that interest is to be paid effectively in our bank account. I'm sure we shouldn't miss any money. That is why I asked a number of questions last week about the expert to be appointed. Now, about a week later, I would like to ask a number of specific questions about the procedure and the state of play in the appointment of the expert. I understand that different auditors are being consulted. What exactly is the state of play? Has there been any consultation with the other parties to the agreement? If so, what is the result of that? Has any timing been set yet? When will we be clear about the expert to be appointed? Is it days or weeks? Can negotiations still be held on this subject? How exactly will the appointment go? I assume that an order letter, some kind of contract documents, with an indication of its tasks, will also be drawn up. Will it specify how many days or weeks the expert gets to investigate the case? Last week there was also talk that we would look not only at the current calculation but perhaps also at the parameters contained in the convention, so that we do not clash with the same problem every year. Is there any clarity on the precise task content of the expert? I have another question on the position of the other parties to the convention. Suppose an expert is identified and, after reviewing the calculations, it comes to the conclusion that a further EUR x million has to be paid. Is that still debatable, or isn't that? Is there a commitment from the other parties in which, if the expert says that a further amount has to be paid, there can be no discussion about this? Last but not least, should there also be any interest paid on the amount that may be claimed? These are a lot of specific questions. I certainly understand and support the demand for transparency and clarity, so that Parliament can monitor exactly what is happening. I also understand the difficult context in which you have to work, Madam Minister, and understand that there should certainly be no breaches of confidentiality. We're here to find a suitable formula to match those two. I am counting on everything being done to ensure that no money is lost and that the nuclear interest which the government is entitled to is paid effectively. I am counting on you to do everything in your power to get them in as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u77	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is a hallucinatory finding in this dossier, in particular the basis of the x number of years ago convention on Tihange 1. If I understand the Minister's explanation, as well as her story in the previous committee discussion, it is certain that for Objective 1 and Objective 2 EUR 20 million will come in annually, for a total of EUR 200 million, while the deal on Tihange 1 under Mr Wathelet will apparently not yield us any nuclear interest for the coming years. I find that hallucinating. I think that is the most remarkable thing about this dossier. That's gonna make you think. If we are asking for transparency and people are going to go further in this respect, I honestly want more information about it. I'm new to this committee. I've been in the Federal Parliament since this legislature. I wasn't there at the time. As the Minister said correctly, my colleague, Willem-Frederik Schiltz, made comments in this committee on that convention and on the calculation of that convention at that time. The debate is now on Tihange 1 and on the quarterly calculation of nuclear interest rates for 2015. We are discussing EUR 3 million, the fork between 7 and 10 million. It is up to an expert to find out what the correct calculation should be, because at least one parameter in the convention is not applicable to the calculation of last year's nuclear interest rate. I understand that question before the Minister of Foreign Affairs that the issue of the parameter, which has arisen for 2015, would no longer arise in the coming years, because it is then a question of full years. Is that correct or are there still missing parameters? Could you give me a little more explanation on that? The CREG says that we cannot calculate exactly, because we have a fork. Will the problem of this fork also arise in the following years, as you thought last week, or is it based on a parameter that goes into a partial year? Then we won't have that problem next year? If this parameter or other parameters will also cause problems for the following years, how exactly will this be addressed? Then we're talking about the convention itself. Does it have to be adapted or will it become the subject of the expert's assignment? Then I would like to add my voice to what Mr Dierick said. Can you then give a more detailed explanation of the exact timing and procedure of the appointment of the expert? Although some of the documents have been broken down, we do get a view of the correspondence you have made about the appointment. I have seen that this has been a correspondence in recent days. What exactly is the timing? Have we already agreed on this, so that we know that we can link back to this committee over a certain period of time on the basis of the expert's work? Is there anything else you can tell me about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u78	Thank you, Mr Lachaert. Mr Wollants, normally you were the first speaker, but I give you the floor now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u79	Mr President, I gave you a preview earlier. Madam Minister, I think it is indeed a good thing that we give as much transparency as possible in this dossier, of course, as far as possible. We know the confidentiality clause is bothering us. When it comes to the CREG data, I note that the CREG itself proposes to consider what is possible in the area of supplementary data. I suppose it is an agreement that we as a Parliament must have with the CREG and not necessarily with the operators. Is that a realistic path, so that we can dig deeper into this dossier and get a little more insight into the exact problem? We can try to put some figures together on the basis of the different documents, but it would be interesting if we could hear more about this. Secondly, on the CREG. The problem is, if I understand correctly, that there is a parameter that is difficult, which is no longer to be found. From what point in time, perhaps, is that somewhere in the previous legislative term, has the CREG actually had at its disposal that convention or at least the methodology according to which it should calculate it? That seems interesting to me, to know when the alarm bell has been pulled and especially since when that parameter doesn't actually exist anymore. Is it true that this was actually established by the CREG at the time when they started their initial calculations? Had they started before you asked any questions, or is that different? It seems interesting to us to know exactly how that works. When it comes to alternatives to that parameter, I think I can conclude from the documents that a number of alternatives are proposed by the CREG. I have the same question as Mr Lachaert, namely whether this is only applicable for this year but, of course, for 2025.It may be a little far from our bed now, but perhaps that is something we need to solve immediately. Can you explain whether there is a certain ratio in recommending those parameters? As you have said, you have asked the operators to pay as much as possible, so that there can be no discussion afterwards about the fact that you have asked too little on the basis of the CREG opinion. It is, of course, also good to know whether there is logic in this and on which it may be based. When it comes to the expert, we do indeed think it is important to have the necessary transparency about how it is appointed and by whom it is appointed. After all, I understand that he is given a rather heavy role in the convention. Not only does he have to be independent, but eventually he also makes the decision. I think I understand that if that expert decides, it will be that result and then there will be no appeal. So it is important for us to think carefully about who we send into the field and how we appoint that expert. How many possible experts have you contacted or will you contact to come to that procedure? How will the expert be paid? Does that depend on the fee or are those costs shared? That too seems to me to be an important element. What is the specific task assigned to the expert? After all, we need to keep the gap between the expert and give him sufficient time to look into the matter and get the right results as soon as possible. The sooner we know exactly how to deal with it, the sooner we will have that last part of our money, but at the same time the less delay the operators may have to pay. What are you thinking of and what is the real effect of this? I think that's important, too. Finally, we need to look a little further into this dossier and see how we are actually dealing with things for the future, without setting any additional parameters. If that expert has decided, is that only relevant for 2025 or should we prepare for any other parameters where problems might arise? Madam Minister, I think that the only way to get our money is to appoint that expert and get that file straight, so that we can put the few euros we get from Tihange 1 in the cash.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u80	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to correct a number of things. Madam Minister, first of all, you said that the last conference on the data room was only about the resolution that could be looked at. I brought in the report from that Conference of Presidents. Let me read it to you. It's in English, but the translation is................................................................................................................................................... "The Conference of Presidents agrees with its proposal that the Convention and the Resolution be made available for inspection only to the members of the Conference." It is therefore a matter of the convention itself and of the resolution and not, as you said, just of the resolution. That's what the report says. This is only for your information. Secondly, you are surprised that there is so much commotion about last week's committee. You say that you have said everything there in complete transparency and that you have not kept anything from me. I also brought in that report. You say the following yourself. "How did the time line go?" So clearly it's about the timeline. Then proceed as follows. "As the law says, on April 15, 2016" The first date you mention is therefore 15 April 2016. You will explain that Electrabel and EDF are paying EUR 7.2 million. Furthermore, you say that the CREG report came on 22 June, and so on. So saying that you didn't hide anything at the time is obviously wrong. As we have often mentioned here, last week in plenary, you knew much earlier that there was a problem. The CREG had warned you much earlier that there was a problem. I agree with you, Madam Minister, and with many fellow Members, including the majority, that the most important thing is that we get the money that the operator owes us. Now, in October, the CREG tells you literally once again that there is a problem with the parameter and literally advises you to invoke paragraph 16, 3 of the convention. What does paragraph 16 (3) say, Madam Secretary? Point 16, 3 says that if there is a problem with a parameter, one can agree with one another, i.e. with the actors, to solve the problem. Again, on 9 October, the CREG informed you that there was a problem with the implementation of a parameter and the method of calculation. She also recalled point 16, 3 of the convention. In other words, she gave you all the arguments so that you would have to ignore the way the parameter is filled in with the operators. But you're not doing anything. So you seem very reassured and you think that the operators themselves will fill in the new parameter for the benefit of the Belgian State and the Belgian consumer. On 17 December 2015, the CREG will remind you again. She refers to the original letter of October 9th and warns that there is a problem with calculating a parameter and that one of the parameters no longer exists. It would remind you once again of the possibility set out in point 16.3 of the Convention: "CREG further recalls that, pursuant to Article 16.3 of the Convention,..." The rest is confidential. You know what paragraph 16.3 says. The text gives you the opportunity to negotiate the relevant parameter. What are you doing, Madam Secretary? You're not doing anything. You wait for the operator to make the calculations himself. You wait until after the CREG report, and that means that we have ended up in the timeline from the moment the CREG makes the report and says that there is still a deviation and that a number of millions more could be recovered, timeline that you gave last week. Madam Minister, my question remains as to why you did not act at the time of the CREG alert on 7 October 2015. Why didn't you respond to the second alarm call given in December? Why did you just wait until the CREG report, and then react very slowly? In fact, you did not respond until 16 September, when the convention states that an expert must be appointed on 15 September. Those are the first two specific questions. The answer remains unclear, despite your full explanation of Objective 1 and Objective 2, which has little or nothing to do with the case cited. Madam Minister, let us now talk about the expert, who is of course very important now. When you say that you have done everything you can to ensure that the State does not lose anything, I tell you that you did not, because you were warned in October 2015. You have waited until September 2016, so more than a year, to act. However, we are now ready to do so. As far as the expert is concerned, you keep saying that the date stated in the convention is not a mandatory date. A colleague already referred to the fact that you apparently did not know if it was a binding date. You had to ask a lawyer on September 23rd. In any case, you said in committee last week that it is not a mandatory date. Still, you had to ask the lawyer again. If it is not a binding date and if that date has no interest at all, then I wonder why it would be in the convention and why the other parties agreed to include it. However, let us assume that it is still possible to be accepted. In that case, I have the following questions for you. Firstly, is it true that, as has appeared in the press, you went to the Council of Ministers with a proposal from one expert and that the Council of Ministers rejected that expert? Is that right? It was in the press. Secondly, if it is not, and even if it is, in what way will the expert ultimately be identified? In what way will you negate this with EDF and Electrabel? Thirdly, what is the timing you set out to identify the expert? How much time will he have to look at the calculations of the CREG, Electrabel and EDF? Fourthly, if a sum is finally determined, how will the residual interest which the State will, in the best case, have to bear be calculated? Madam Minister, I would also like to know how you proceed with the letter and with the questions put by the President of the Chamber. You have answered it, but you know very well that you did not answer the questions of the President of the Chamber for 80%. I am thinking, for example, of the divergence that has arisen with regard to the date of his escape, but I think it is 13 September, on which you stated that no expert should be appointed, while two days later you indicated that an expert should be appointed. Now, to that question, you answer the President of the Chamber that it is a matter of communication, which has nothing to do with its content. I think it has something to do with the content of whether or not the millions we owe from Electrabel will be recovered. In this way the President of the Chamber responds, in particular by saying that it is a matter of communication and that he should not really care about it, is, firstly, offensive to the President of the Chamber, even if that is his case, but, secondly,... (...): (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u81	I don't think so either. That is why my question is how you will deal with the letter and the questions and how you will answer them further. Madam Secretary, the most important question remains open. The transparency you claim remains very selective. You say that you have given the full timeline, although it appears very clearly that you have not. Afterwards, we had to observe that you knew much earlier than on the date you gave up. That's a first problem. Secondly, you say that you are acting in the public interest and doing everything in your power to recover the additional millions. However, the facts prove that this is not the case. The first time you informed the operator was after the CREG report in April. More than half a year you waited to negotiate with Electrabel and EDF on a number of issues and this while, I repeat, the CREG had informed you in October 2015 that you had everything in your hands to negotiate with Electrabel and EDF via point 16.3. Those remain my two most important questions. Why didn't you? Why did you risk the millions we would owe Electrabel and EDF in this way? As always, Madam Minister, I am very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u82	Madam Minister, first of all, I would like to come back to the question of the amount. I interrupted you a little while when you were quoting the mail on the 13th. That's precisely because I consider Electrabel's lawyers to be particularly intelligent people and to be attentive to all the details of a mail like that. At no time in the mail do you say that the balance to be paid is 3 million euros. You are making a demonstration that the amount they might have to pay can be as much as 3 million euros, but it is never said that this is the amount that both have to pay. Here, you come to the parliament to announce that you have requested the maximum. That's not true! You said to Electrabel and EDF: "This is the maximum amount, and I leave you free to choose the balance you consider necessary to pay." That is what you say, not only in your mail, but also in your communication. I'm on your website. I'm looking at the communication you made on September 16th.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u83	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u84	Let's be serious, please! Madam Minister, Mr Nollet has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u85	Mr. Chairman, I am unable to respond to the minister because her website does not specify the hours. It's not the Belga that counts; it's when you put it on your site that it counts, right?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u86	Mr. Nollet, continue your development.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u87	The contents of the September 16 press release are as follows: "The minister found, on the basis of this analysis, that, according to the parameters used, a difference in result is obtained from the amount paid, which ranges from zero to a few million more. She told Electrabel." You never say that you notified Electrabel that they had to pay the 3 million euros. Never! You come to parliament a few days later, September 20th. I consulted the meeting documents. I would also like to thank the services for giving us the opportunity to work very correctly with a verbatim, a report of the work. You said there is no fixed amount to write a letter to the farmers saying "you owe me as much". Things are clear, minister. You didn't ask for the maximum. You just explained to Electrabel and EDF, to parliamentarians, to the press, to Belga, on your website, to the whole world, that there was a range that ranged from zero to 3 million euros. You say "give us the balance" but you never quote the amount. You never asked for 3 million euros. Today, in your new presentation, in your reconstruction, you say that's what you asked for. Minister, I challenge you to demonstrate with intellectual honesty, through a formula, that you have claimed $3 million. The proof is that neither Electrabel nor EDF mention this amount in their answers because they have the intelligence to respond with a lot of subtlety, in any case Electrabel. Let's look at Electrabel's answer. This is the e-mail of 16 September: "In order to propose a constructive solution, we are ready to consider the appointment of an expert." They are ready to consider; they do not say they agree. EDF says it more brutally. Then, and this is the most important point: "The mission of this expert will be to analyse the points of divergence included in the CREG report and to express an opinion." No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, EDF says "tranching." EDF makes it clear that "the independent expert can decide". I consider that to mean that EDF will comply with what the independent expert says. I may be wrong, but I consider the formula to be relatively clear and legally binding. Electrabel says the expert can give an opinion! Just as the CREG gives an opinion, just as the cabinet Janson gives an opinion, just as the parliamentarians can give an opinion. Everyone can give an opinion. This does not mean that they will agree with what the expert will say. Can you commit on their behalf? Is Electrabel's response formula as engaging as EDF's? I don't read it like that. These are the only documents available on this item. I am continuing with the inaccuracies and flaws that appear in the documents that you have given us. I am not talking about those who, I hope, will be released to us in cascade when the CREG has agreed to deposit them in the data room. As far as public procurement is concerned, I am going to ask you a direct question, Madam Minister. Do you confirm or deny that you proposed in intercabinets that PricewaterhouseCoopers is responsible for the independent expert's work? I will complete this question by asking you if it was a joint proposal with Electrabel and EDF. I will therefore ask you to send us the documents that have been distributed in intercabinets. Since, as far as I know, there is no more confidentiality in the government than in the parliament, which has control over the CREG, I assume that we can, at the very least, receive the documents that have been transmitted in intercabinets. Moreover, when you came to Parliament last week, on this aspect too, you were already referring to the appointment of a large consulting firm. It is therefore no wonder that we find then PwC.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u88	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u89	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u90	But today, you're going backwards. Why? Because you have to compete. It's never been in your mind. You've been stuck by the majority's partners. Isn't that fair?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u91	Mr President, may I add something? In addition to what Mr Nollet says, I see on the Minister's website a press release dated 17 September in which she says she has an agreement with Electrabel and EDF for the appointment of an expert.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u92	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u93	Mr President, I will continue on public procurement. This is obviously an important part. We had the same debate with Minister Galant at the time. Have we, yes or no, tried to circumvent this aspect, and so the note to the intercabinets? But it's not the only shadow zone. I would like, Madam Minister, to make it clear why you changed your version in 24 hours, 180 degrees. And without running away from the answer, because what you're saying has nothing to do with the documents to be handed over. I'm sorry, but it's not confidential. It's communication, it's nothing confidential. I ask you the question: why do you say on 16 September: "We are not going to appoint experts", and why on 17 September, do you say: "We are going to appoint an expert"? What happened between the 16th and the 17th?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u94	I hope you answer. Because for the time being, we have not received an answer on this. And last week neither. But as long as you answer, I'm satisfied. I take note that you will answer. I still have a question about the intercabinets. Did you distribute the full CREG report to the intercabinets? So they had access, Mr. Chairman, to the entire report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u95	I also take note of that, Mr. Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u96	I think this is an important element that should be included in the Speaker's interaction with the CREG.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u97	I can tell you, Mr Nollet, that my letter to the President of the CREG has already gone, in agreement with the Speaker of the House.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u98	This may still be a complement to trade. So there, of course, the full report was distributed. Did you have the agreement of Electrabel and EDF to propose PwC as an expert to appoint? What happened in intercabinets? Can we get the intercabinets report? I am also surprised that you are passing on to the government for such a small amount – because, Mr Friart, the amounts are said to be in the order of 30 000 euros (amount divided by three: 10 000 for the government, 10 000 for the EDF partner, 10 000 for the Electrabel partner). It is certainly a realization of the government's guardianship to have to look at such small amounts. I would also like to address the issue of the binding aspect, of the strictness of the deadline, as opposed to the time limit. I'm referring to Janson's paper. The document explains that the date of April 15 is, in fact, a strict deadline, because from then on, there are interests. No? Excuse me, minister, I'm also interacting with colleagues. It's not just you on earth! Mr. Wollants told me no, but you say yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u99	I thought you were looking at me...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u100	The Minister responds positively to your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u101	It's important to the report. You say that, unlike on 15 April, the date of 15 September is not subject to sanctions. The note of the firm Janson Baugniet says that "for all the other deadlines, fixed in the convention, these are deadlines of order". In fact, if we follow the initial reasoning, the date of 15 April is accompanied by sanctions but also the date of 30 September. If you resume the agreement, the date of 30 September is also subject to sanctions. This is the date on which the payments should have been made on September 30th. There, then, we are also in a strict period of time. You will explain why April 15 is a strict deadline and why September 30 would not be. I keep the conditional on this part. I have one more question in connection with your contacts with EDF and Electrabel. Do these two companies share your optimism that this is only an orderly delay and not a strict deadline? I am speaking again here on September 15 and September 30. Do they consider that the Convention remains fully valid, while the date of 15 September is exceeded? As long as these two parties agree to play the game, everything goes of course. But the day they say no because the expert asks too much, that it no longer suits them or that they put other requirements there, they can quite withdraw because they are no longer bound by the convention. Oddly enough, Madam Minister, you did not mention what you referred to last week, the new role assigned to CREG.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u102	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u103	I'm going back to what you said last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u104	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u105	Madam Minister, if you answer, use the microphone. And give a one-time answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u106	I am simply saying that it is the role of CREG to verify the costs and revenues of the plant. This is quite specific to the extension of Tihange 1. This role is not a control role, nor a decisory role, but a role of audit and support to the government in this context, in relation to the application of the convention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u107	Read what you said to Parliament last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u108	This is a new role in relation to his usual role, Mr. Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u109	And what is it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u110	The usual role of CREG which is laid down by law. The CREG doesn't just do that in its life.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u111	We agree. But this is what it is doing in relation to the application of the Convention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u112	That is what it is, and it is a very specific and new role in relation to what it usually does.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u113	Compared to what she usually does, I don't disagree. But my question is whether, for future years (2017, 2018 until 2025), its role changes from what it has done this year and which displeases private operators. Of course, private operators don't like it! Of course, the gendrama is there to remind them that they are not righteous! And let's look at the contents of the things the CREG points to. You don't talk about it, but others talk about it. It can be seen that they incorporate elements from 2013 and 2014 into the 2015 costs. It can be seen that Electrobel counts, not as the convention provides, by quarter, but monthly or vice versa. We see that they're re-integrating things that have nothing to do with the extension of Tihange 1. You're pretending to find out?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u114	No, not at all. I'm listening and I'm surprised. I feel like you're familiar with this convention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u115	I am referring here to the convention, but also to the full report of the CREG itself. Not the one you cleaned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u116	The one you don't have, obviously. Mr Nollet, you do not have the full report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u117	I know what you distributed to the intercabinet. We can review it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u118	Who is in the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u119	The CREG considers that "Electrabel and EDF have inflated the item "operation and control costs". The operators of Tihange 1 have in fact slipped billing fees and the IT department, while the CREG considers that these are already included in the overheads. Amount to be recovered: EUR 1.12 million." But you have the document.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u120	I'll take the CREG document that was sent to you. Tell me what page it's on.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u121	I'll tell you when we're in the data room. I'll invite you to have a cup of coffee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u122	So you're reading the full report. You have the full report from CREG.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u123	Mr Nollet has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u124	Minister, you know like me that layouts sometimes change.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u125	But yes, of course...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u126	I will continue, however, because I believe that the demonstration is worth it, even if the amounts are relatively modest. For the surface water levy, CREG found that Electrabel and EDF had passed corrections and provisions for the years 2013 and 2014 into the 2015 count. "These costs cannot be accepted," writes the regulator. The amount to be recovered is EUR 580,000. Thirdly, Electrabel and EDF have also tried to deduct certain municipal taxes, but some of them are considered to be "costs of promotion and integration of Electrabel unrelated to the operation of the Tihange 1 power plant", writes CREG. In this case, and this is the only one, she analyses two scenarios. The amount involved is EUR 159,000.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u127	That's it: 159 000 euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u128	Fourthly, the regulator disputes how Electrabel and EDF apply one of the definitions of the Convention. In their calculation, energy scientists used a monthly index reflecting the price of electricity. "However, the regulator writes, the use of monthly prices is not mentioned anywhere in the convention." The CREG considers that the spirit and letter of the agreement are respected by using only quarterly prices. That's what the regulator did. The result is a revaluation of the order of 2.2 million. It is the information that you want to hide from us at this stage, but which is contained in the full text and which justifies not only the amounts being discussed, but also the principles at stake. I ask that this be included in the report, with my quotations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u129	Mr Nollet, I do not want to hide these elements from you. It is the CREG itself that does it and is liable to criminal penalties – listen carefully to what I'm saying – if it discloses – fortunately, it is not it that does it, but you – the information about the industrial and commercial aspects of the operators. I'm going back to my sentence. Listen carefully to what I'm saying. The CREG has complied with its duty. It is not critical in that it has submitted a redacted report of the elements you have just given. She respects her criminal responsibility. She's not the one who says what you're saying, it's you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u130	Nevertheless, the Committee on the Economy asks the CREG to organise a data room and, consequently, to have the ad hoc documents available.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u131	Yes, Mr. President, but not today! You have clearly understood that today we are in open session and not in a data room. So Mr Nollet, who is full of good will, probably wants to burn the stages, but it is under his responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u132	Mr. Chairman, I did this because the minister invited me to do so earlier. Remember what he said. She said I didn't dare!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u133	I was talking about the convention, Mr. Nollet, not the CREG report. It's not the same thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u134	It's exactly the same! And if you were careful last week, I had article 8 of that so-called confidential convention distributed through the services. It was distributed in committee, it is in the report. It is also an element that you wanted to keep secret but which is extremely important to understand the logic in which we operate. That's what I want to denounce. It is this opacity, this game with the only nuclear sector. All other actors are obliged to publish everything and there is no confidentiality. If I went into this detail, it is to show that behind the opacity that is created, there are problems of principle beyond the amounts. What are these principles? Electrabel and EDF artificially inflated their numbers. In doing so, it is money that comes less into the state coffers and therefore the citizen, in one way or another, will have to pay to compensate. This is done through a fund, but as the fund is not funded, what was planned to be financed from the fund will have to be financed otherwise. That's why it's important. Although these are relatively small amounts, this is why the question of principles is a fundamental issue. I have one more question to ask you about the reasons why your first letter is only leaving on 13 September. While signals have been sent to you since October 2015, I have still not understood, and colleagues have said so well, why to appoint an expert you are waiting for the day ahead, not for the deadline, but for the deadline for the report to be submitted by the expert. For me, this period remains unexplained. At this stage, it is part of the shadow zones of the file. I would also like you to give us some information on how to appoint experts. You tell us, and it's quite fantastic as a formulation, but we've taken the habit with you of phrases that you put down with aplomb – so we're going to pretend as if it were true – that things are being discussed, but nothing is written, everything is oral. I would like you to be able to clarify here the modalities as they have been discussed, even if it is only oral. It is in the report of last week's committee which reports: "We have started to elaborate (these arrangements for appointing the expert), but, for the moment, not necessarily in writing." I invite colleagues to think carefully about what this means. We've negotiated some things, but not necessarily in writing. So, it's partly oral, maybe with sign language or drawings.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u135	Or hieroglyphics.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u136	So I'm asking you for the content. I also wanted you to be able to confirm to us, since your versions vary from week to week, that there will be no amendments to the convention and that it will not be changed in any way, including in subsequent years. Mr. Chairman, other questions will come, of course, based on the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u137	Mr de Lamotte, before giving you the floor, I would like to point out that we will distribute a document at your request to support your comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u138	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what are we talking about today? We are talking about the implementation of a Tihange 1 convention, a convention that has been formally decided, whose start-up law has been passed by Parliament and which, as parliamentarians, you have approved the text. Maybe we should call him back. I would like to say to Mr Friart, but perhaps there are two representatives of the MR, that the official position of his party, expressed here in committee, was this: "We stress that the documents currently submitted to this committee mark a real turning point in energy policy in Belgium. For the first time, we will have a short-, medium- and long-term policy that will benefit our businesses, our citizens' portfolio and the state budget. This is a pragmatic response, devoid of ideological caricatures that have only too marked the energy debate in our country so far." It was the version of Mr Friart's party in 2013. I'll take note of that. We are now talking about this agreement and, above all, this commission last week, Madam Minister, during which you came to declare that you received a letter from CREG. You mentioned the date of August 11, 2016. We were wondering at this meeting what you had done between 25 June and 13 September. As time runs and the elements that are brought to our debate, the question becomes: What did you do between October 2015 and September 2016? All the more so since the CREG report was very clear, and because it sets out new parameters to be taken into account. There is indeed a relatively large loss of profits. It amounts to millions of euros in addition to the provisions already paid by EDF and Engie-Electrabel operators. We wondered if there were any new parameters that had been defined. While these were in the CREG report, they were not put into effect or negotiated. Why didn't you operationalize this updating of the convention? Is this a sign of distrust of the independent regulator or has the minister bent on the failure of the operators to take into account the model set out by CREG and therefore pay more on the Tihange 1 royalty? Minister, you have not been clear on the dates. You've had different versions. You forgot to tell us things or to produce documents. Indeed, you knew well that since October 2015, there was a real problem with the parameters. The CREG has written to you about these problems. She's doing it on her control mission. All this was read in the daily press. And how do you react to that? You simply say that renegotiating this calculation formula was going for months of discussion and there was more urgency. Indeed, you were trying to negotiate at that time the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 and it was not necessary to upset Electrabel. So, radio silence, we didn't do anything! No approach to Engie and EDF for the renegotiation of these parameters. It is therefore more important not to displease the nuclear operator than to review this parameter. Who's gonna pay? The consumer. Second element, Madam Minister. You let the deadline for September 15 pass. Why? While it is known that the convention was very real, it provided for guidelines. It was not necessary to upset your nuclear operators, with whom you are still negotiating. You say relationships are good, everything's gonna be fine. They would agree to appoint an expert out of time. All right. But who's gonna pay for this expert? I give you my ticket, Madam Minister, that this expert will have a scale between 20 000 and 30 000 euros surely to carry out this mission. We'll see about it. If that's not right, you'll deny me. I think that's the rate. However, since the convention is no longer applicable since the deadline is exceeded, you have been asked for the draft amendment. We still don't have this project. Where is he? As far as the outcome of the expert's decision-making is concerned, will there be a possible remedy? In the original agreement, the appeal was not possible. The expert was setting the rate. This is therefore an additional fog spot. Thirdly, you are not angry with Engie, but you are putting yourself in a weak position for these negotiations because you admit that on 13 September you sent the CREG report to the operators. Is that correct or not? Correct. But then, you give your arguments to the side opposite. Admit it's still surprising. You who are in charge of defending the state, you give them arguments to fight. Who will finally win? And at whose service? I understand now when you say "of the knowledge I have of partners, the atmosphere is good, it has always been consensual and constructive". So, according to you, they wouldn't be a problem. Admit it's surprising. The fourth point I would like to raise with you concerns the documents that the Speaker of the House has listed in a letter to solicit you in order to obtain all the elements. Minister, we don't have everything! Parts are missing and there is a lot of missing. Therefore, Mr President, I think it is necessary to ask for a data room with all the rooms. Madam Minister, I can simply take one of your e-mails from the documents sent to the Committee on the Economy. I reread the email from October 23, 2015 at 11:26 a.m., since you like precision. It is an email from CREG that is addressed to you. This e-mail says: "We received your letter ( yesterday afternoon) from the date of 23 October relating on the one hand to the enforcement of the Tihange 1 Convention and, on the other hand, to the royalty for the benefit of the Belgian State". You say you sent us all the letters, emails and interesting items. But "we received your mail yesterday afternoon." Where is this Thursday mail mentioned in the October 23 e-mail at 11:26 a.m.?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u139	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u140	I repeat; the CREG says, "We received your mail yesterday afternoon." Where is this letter we are talking about, since the Speaker of the House has indeed requested that all documents be transmitted to all parliamentarians. A white one! Madam Minister, I would have liked you to give us these elements. There is clearly a gap in the time line in relation to mail exchanges. I'll come back to that mail again. And the CREG asks you: "We propose that you set a date next weekend – and I read the documents you have transferred – so that you can perform the new simulations requested and present them to you at this meeting". What simulations are involved? If any news has been made, there have been others before. However, nothing appears in the documents transmitted. So, Mr. President, some e-mails have obviously been forgotten. I would like to return to one of the points which my colleague mentioned before me and which I think is very important. With regard to the legal note that you requested from Janson-Baugniet, he reminded you of the difference between time limits and time limits and quoted the article in this regard. In my view, the deadline of 30 September is not a period of order, but a strict one, since the sum must be paid on that date. Therefore, if it is not on 30 September, interest begins to run – as on 15 April last for the convention. If this is an order period, how is interest calculated? It doesn't make sense. For me, it's a strict deadline. I'm sure in this mail Janson-Baugniet has been "elegant" with you. He didn't mean to upset you. Minister, in order to avoid the late interest that would then be paid by the consumer, there are three days left to resolve the problem. It's September 27. From that moment on, and you will see it, as it is a strict deadline, the interests will run. For the penultimate point that I would like to raise with you, Madam Minister, the chip has been put to my ears by a press article. I refer to the article of the daily newspaper Le Soir which refers to the confidential report of the CREG, and in particular the problematic parameter which is mentioned in this file of the report of the CREG. This problematic parameter no longer exists and a correction of 96,000 euros for Tihange 1 is achieved. Minister, this is a relative element. And this parameter you're talking about...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u141	Mr Nollet is talking about EUR 156 000. All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u142	I'm talking about 96,000 bits and mixes. Like that, the reference is clear. Minister, the parameter is a problem. You said it, 96,000 euros out of four million. But since then, this parameter no longer exists. That's what I thought I heard in the conversation earlier, too. But then, let me ask you the question: why, when this parameter no longer exists, it is not precise and it is a problem, have you included it in the nuclear tax negotiated for Doel 1 and Doel 2, in the agreement negotiated and signed by the Prime Minister, by you and Gérard Mestrallet? I invite you to go and see, this concerns the allocation contribution for the other four operating plants. You used this parameter in the Doel 1 and Doel 2 extension convention, which you say is a problem. I refer you to the signed agreement, in Appendix C2, page 5.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u143	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u144	The annexes are public, dear lady! There is a problem with the T1 parameters in the discussion we have at the moment, but you use the same parameters for the Doel 1 and Doel 2 convention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u145	I'm sorry, but I'm not as learned as you and I'm referring to my collaborator.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u146	Yes, but I expect your answer. You therefore took for this allocation contribution a factor of 0.995 and not a factor of 0.996 as advised, resulting in a significant loss of profits for the State, and a loss for the State. We are at an annual amount of more than 2.3 million for these parameters. You use this parameter now while it no longer exists since the obsolete parameter you mentioned in T1. We are talking about the future nuclear tax, which you have an obligation to present to us before 15 November, if I remember correctly. Minister, there are five and a half weeks left and I look forward to you with great interest on a text that has yet to be passed on to the government. I guess we're going to use the notion of urgency here, when it was signed over a year ago around November 15.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u147	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u148	If you want to have a few weeks, you still have five, in any case, to get Parliament to vote on this. If you start lighting everyone up, I wish you pleasure, especially since you have taken a reference that no longer exists. The argument is negligible for you, but it hides negligence that seems serious to me. To take up Mrs Cassart's point, I would indeed like to say that there is bad faith. Minister, the convention is so complicated for you that we have the impression that you don't want the money from this agreement. You make mistakes not to have to admit that there has been another negotiation that returns more in 2015 than the package you have imagined for the future. We'll see what the future holds for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u149	Colleagues, I thought we had arrived at the last speech, but I still have two requests. So I now propose a five-minute health break. Ladies and gentlemen, we can resume our work. There are two other Members who have asked to speak. They have promised to be brief, because at the moment the Minister's answers to precise questions are important.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u150	Mr President, I shall be very brief. We spoke earlier about the missing parameter. When I look at the CREG's clean-up report, the CREG does indeed make proposals when it comes to the flow of electricity. So I suppose the missing parameter fits in there. On the other hand, it also makes proposals on operating costs. We note that in the proposal of the CREG there is always a specific alternative to the parameter or a certain calculation with the parameter linked to a certain amount of operating costs. Now I can imagine that other combinations are possible, for example, linking the EUR 105.06 million yield to the EUR 76 million. So the question I have is whether the two are always linked together, as they are included in the table or whether there are other combinations possible. Can you say a little more about the issue of operating costs?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u151	Mr President, I will be brief, but perhaps a little longer than Mr Wollants. I must say that the majority is working overtime for the opposition and she imposes the duty of multitasking on it. After all, it is switching from the Minister of Finance to the Minister of Energy. However, I would like to add a number of things to the debate, without repeating it. Madam Minister, first of all, you are getting so furious that you can use your previous mistakes and incidents to create confusion about what we are talking about today. That's gradually playing to your advantage. So much has already happened to you in the nuclear file that some sort of spontaneous fog is rising. What's it about today? Today it is no longer a question of whether the convention should be public. We have had those debates. Nor is it a question of whether the content of the convention is strong or not. We have had these debates. Now we are talking about whether or not the convention has been correctly applied and whether or not you have done what is necessary. Then my conviction after establishing the chronology is that you have not done the necessary and that you have not applied the convention properly. That's what today is about. That's this episode in your performance as Minister of Energy. I shall confine myself to a number of questions. The most important question is the following. You have been informed since October 2015 and yet your démarche has been postponed until September 2016. Why was that, all the more so because, as you admit in your oral explanation, you were already informed before October 2015 following your negotiations with the operators on Objectives 1 and 2. So you were actually aware of the tensions before October 2015 and you postponed your important démarche until September 2016. Secondly, it has already been about your role and your negligence, but it has been too little about the role of the Prime Minister in the dossier. The negotiation and application of the Convention is traditionally a dual task in this and in the previous government, namely the Prime Minister and the Minister for Energy. Information that you have provided shows that the Prime Minister was aware of the problems since 29 June 2016. What interactions have taken place between your cabinet and the Prime Minister's? Have you kept the Prime Minister informed of any problems? So was it okay for the Prime Minister to move a gear up until September 2016? I would like to make that clear. Thirdly, you have waited so long to appoint the expert that you have partially withdrawn from the convention. We're after September 15th. To understand it correctly, does it mean that operators must also give the green light to the appointment of the expert? Is that what you're doing together? Do you indicate it or do you indicate it to the chairman of the Institute of Corporate Supervisors? What will ultimately be the situation? Forelast question, what exactly is the expert's mandate? There was concern about this last week. Mr Dierick has also asked a question about this. That makes sense to me. Everyone who's been following the file has that question. Will the expert's mandate be the nuclear contribution this year or will he be given a mandate until 2025 and will he therefore de facto replace the CREG? It is a question: is it a question of trancheing or forever trancheing this time? Things are very subtle. I believe that you are the most clear about the mandate and present the formal description of the mandate to Parliament. Then that discussion has been phased out for now and for later. Finally, we read in the newspaper that you presented an expert to the government, namely PWC, but that the proposal would have been rejected. Is that right? If so, what was the justification? Did it say that you should have followed the procedure for the appointment of experts? As you can see, there are more similarities with your former colleague, the Minister for Mobility. Or was the reasons for the refusal in substance, namely that the player concerned could not be appointed as an expert with those connections and involvement? In short, what was the justification for the refusal, if any? Finally, in the same atmosphere, have you already appointed a new expert? If so, which one? If that hasn't happened yet, when will it happen? I'm trying to narrow down the number of questions, although I have a lot of questions. I'm trying to confine myself to the essence. I would particularly ask you, Madam Minister, to stay at the heart of the discussion. It is about the application of the Convention and whether you have done the necessary. We have already had the debates on these issues. The role you played in this has, I believe, already been noticed by enough people. So you don't have to stir them up again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u152	Minister, we are at the end of the turn of the speakers. I invite you to try to provide precise answers. In addition to what has already been said and the arguments that have already been repeated last Tuesday or today, could you give the most concrete and precise answers to the questions that were equally so? Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u153	Mr President, I thank colleagues for the many and very specific questions. I will try to answer it in the most synthetic way possible. Let me start with article 16.3. How does this article work? I heard it said: "But you have not implemented Article 16.3, while the CREG has been inviting you to do so since October 2015. What about it?" I'm rereading Article 16.3 because everyone has the convention, isn't it, Mr. Nollet? So there's no problem. Article 16.3 reads as follows: "In the event that any of the indices referred to in a formula set out in an annex to this Convention are amended or ceased to be published." It is really a gift of divination well helped by the circumstances, since you have all explained to me, some a little more than others, by reading the report of the CREG – isn't it, Mr Nollet? – that this occurrence occurred from the outset as soon as the Convention was signed. So the parties anticipate from the outset that there might be no more clues. They ask, "What are we doing at that time?" Answer: "The Parties shall substitute for it another index or otherwise adapt the formula in such a way as to preserve the operation and effects envisaged at the conclusion of this Convention." Therefore, it is still the application of the treaty principle where the parties say: "If there is a difficulty, we must agree to resolve this difficulty." This means that it is always subject to the goodwill of the parties. The parties must agree. I explained earlier and I'm going to resume the timing because it's still important. You also asked me about this timing of work. I'll try to go fast. You're telling me two things. First: "Last week, you only talked about the period after April 15. Why, when you had had discussions with the CREG that we are seeing today and that show that you already know the problem of parameters? You should then have implemented Article 16.3." When I read the questions you asked me on 20 September, they all revolved around the deadline of 15 September. Absolutely all of them were relevant, and that makes sense since these were topical issues, with what you had read in the press. That's the first piece of information to come out. So we talked about it for two hours. I explained to you what was going on and I'll even read it again...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u154	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u155	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u156	No! Wait a minute!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u157	Colleagues, please let the minister answer. Then everyone will intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u158	Mrs Temmerman, if you'll allow me to answer, I'll read.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u159	That's not possible!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u160	You're asking me for answers. When I give them to you, you say I'm immodest. That's amazing!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u161	I propose that not everyone speak at the same time. Otherwise, we won't get along.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u162	Mr President, thank you. I explain the events. I have to explain to you that a payment has been executed to tell you that there may be a balance. You're asking me about September 15th. I'm trying to introduce you to a whole. You tell me, "We see that you had some exchanges with the CREG a long time ago." I'm telling you, it was a lot longer than you think. The first letter I sent to him dates back to September 7. So I'm going further than the CREG. Someone asked me if these were new simulations. In September, but that does not prevent me from doing anything else – proof of this is that I wrote to CREG – I am negotiating the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2, the royalty, the new allocation contribution and everything that follows. I know that we are obliged, as the law provides – you will remember this other major debate on dates – to sign the convention on 30 November. I would then like to know what the previous government has done and how to read that formula. I've got it in front of my eyes. I'm sorry I can't read it like you do, Mr. de Lamotte. As I am unable to get this formula to work, I ask the CREG to take care of it. This one does what is necessary. At that time, and that's the big difference between the events before and after April 15, why can't CREG provide a complete and successful job – that it will do later, because the law provides for it, by submitting its report in June? Because it does not yet have all the costs and revenues of the Tihange 1 plant, which it will receive from the operator from March onwards. She projections me and she says to me: "according to the projections I can make and the knowledge I have of the sector, that's what I can say about the simulations, that is to say, the expectations of the Tihange 1 convention for the years to come". And then I realize...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u163	Minister, are you consulting the CREG on simulations but on parameters, nothing?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u164	No, I never said that! You can look wherever you want, I never said that!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u165	But all emails talk about simulations and none talks about parameters!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u166	Mr de Lamotte, she is talking to me about the parameters. And you're asking me why I didn't implement Article 16.3. But I answer this: first, look in the letter to the president. I said it earlier, but I say it again. I'm having meetings with CREG to explain to me those parameters that you know very well, I heard. I need to be explained a little further because I don't have the same knowledge, the same speed of understanding. I therefore organise three meetings with CREG: 28 October 2015, 3 December 2015 and 10 December 2015. This is linked to the explanation of the letters and the exchange of correspondence with the CREG between September and December 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u167	On simulations or parameters?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u168	But on everything! No, it's not possible! The CREG draws your attention to the parameters! I ask for an answer to a question. On the parameters, yes or no?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u169	Yes, sir de Lamotte! I'm asking him to explain to me what's in those letters!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u170	Why didn't you answer the CREG on the parameters saying you had to check?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u171	Wait a minute, Mr. de Lamotte. I therefore replied to the CREG because it says that Article 16.3 must be implemented. This one is not a state tax to say "you Electrabel, you EDF, now I will change the parameters, you will agree and everything will roll". All the more so since at this time, Mr. de Lamotte, there is no precise calculation of the CREG, since it does not yet have the costs and revenues that it will have later...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u172	Why didn't CREG respond to your firm?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u173	Mr de Lamotte, if you will allow me to reply! If I can't answer you, say it right now! Do the answers for me and everything will be fine! I'm going on. Electrabel, I see them - it is written in my letter to the President - on February 4, 2016, March 18, 2016 and March 24, 2016. Why, Mr. de Lamotte? Not to negotiate the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2, it's over! In your opinion, why? To knit socks? It was indeed good to talk about this, these problems. Because we had to implement Article 16.3 together, which provides that the parties agree to adapt the convention when it is a problem. And she was a problem. So I met Electrabel for that job. I explained to you earlier that we did not manage to agree, because at that time neither one has any specific element, like those that will later appear in the CREG report that I receive in June. For the good and simple reason that Electrabel will interact with the CREG, will hand over all the verification documents of its costs and revenues by 31 March 2016 at the latest and will allow the CREG, working with it for three months, to do what the CREG must do in the eyes of the law, that is to say to check the costs and revenues in order to be able to inject them accurately into the formula and to say, for the period concerned – because it cannot do anything else at that time – that is between 1 October and 31 December 2015, what is the amount of the royalty. What I asked him between October and December was also simulations for later years. And that, the CREG does not. It shall only do the work planned for the financial year concerned, i.e. between 1 October 2015 and 31 December 2015. Once we've got this job, we'll do a little more explanation with the CREG. I've already told you that before. I told you, Mrs. Temmerman, that I had left on April 15 because you were worried about the 15 September deadline to find out whether or not I had recovered the millions owed to the state. You were worried that millions were in nature and, of course, as I had forgotten a deadline, I had necessarily lost those millions by supposed negligence on my part. I'm doing the analysis of the CREG report with the CREG. My collaborator and my firm are interacting with CREG to get their report explained. And I repeat that on 19 July we have a meeting with the CREG, which my collaborator then asks questions to the CREG, to which he will be answered on 11 August. And after August 11, excuse me, what am I doing? I continue to say to the operators: here I have a report from the CREG that concerns you. In this report, as the CREG itself says...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u174	Minister, on August 11, you don't have the parameters. In the e-mail, it says: we don't talk about parameters.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u175	You say what you want, but that's not true. We question the CREG on its report, and the CREG answers on 11 August; you have a redacted version in its e-mail of 11 August, but I am telling you that it is in relation to its report. The parameters are in his report, Mr. de Lamotte.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u176	Read this August 11 e-mail a little bit.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u177	But at last, say listen, Monsieur de Lamotte! You don't have to believe me...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u178	You don't like contradiction. I understand that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u179	Yes, I like the contradiction, that's why I answer you. The contradiction is not necessarily the fact that I am told the opposite of what I am saying, it is the fact that we were debating. I am telling you that the CREG answers my questions of 19 July on its report. In the CREG report, what is it? The parameters, of course. What do I do after August 11? I repeat the thread, the contact with the operators and I tell them that I have here a report that concerns them, in which it is said that several possibilities, several hypotheses are developed by the CREG. It gives its opinion, corrects, makes proposals on the parameters that are problematic, as you know, and we come to several different sums. What are we doing? We have to implement section 16.3 that allows us to change. But no, we disagree. We have a different position and we justify our position. This debate is taking place, and it is the right of the parties to a convention, who are on an equal footing, to discuss differences of opinion. So, since I am unable to impose, because I do not have the power in this convention, a point of view, it is necessary, at some point, to formalize a challenge. I told you earlier, and I repeat exactly the same thing. So I formalize the challenge and I am sending a letter on 13 September, before the 15th, in which, as I explained to you earlier, I say that the view of Electrabel and EDF is the following. They estimate that they have to pay 7.2 million, point to the line. The point of view of the CREG, in any case one of its hypotheses, which I develop and on which I put figures, is to make them pay 10,2 million. So I mention in the mail that I send to CREG that everyone will have to pay 5.1 million. I make a summary table of the margin calculation for the 2015 periods. Proceeds from sale, operating expenses, compensation annuities, negative balance from previous periods I cancelled, reference margin 14.6 million. This leads to an amount of 70 per cent for the State (10,2). I even put them co-owner Electrabel SA, 50% (5.1 million), co-owner EDF Belgium, 50% (5.1 million). I say, on the basis of this, "Please pay me the additional amounts for 30 September". They tell me, at that time, that they don't agree and they send me a mail to say "we are contesting". They can say very well, "we contest and we won't pay any more!" But they did not say that, which clearly shows that they are still within the framework of the Convention, that they agree to appoint an expert and that the expiry of the 15 September deadline, which is not a strict deadline, does not change the situation. This does not result in punishment, otherwise you think, Mr. de Lamotte, that they would still have benefited from it. They could try to take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u180	Could it not be suggested to Janson-Baugniet to come and explain the difference he makes between the strict deadline and the deadline for September 30? Mr. Chairman, could we ask the lawyers to come and explain what they hear?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u181	We will discuss the order of business after...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u182	You can ask them for an explanation, they'll give it to you. They wrote it. You read it...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u183	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u184	Mr. de Lamotte, I feel a little tense. I wish I could continue my explanation. I'll read you the legal opinion if you want. We'll be wasting time, but I see that some people need a little bit of time. If the parties to the convention had found that they could benefit – and to hear you, one wonders why they did not – from a time limit provided for in the convention, do you really think they would have proposed the appointment of an expert? I don't know, I'm asking you the question. They therefore propose the appointment of an expert, which means that we are quite in the conventional framework, and that in this context a timing will be followed to have this external judge provided for in the convention to decide. And I take the whole of section 8.3 to explain to you that this expert is here to decide. The parties therefore decide to rely, from the outset in the Convention, on an external expert when there are problems with the application of the Convention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u185	Electrabel doesn't say that. They are considering the possibility of appointing an expert.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u186	Mr President, Mr de Lamotte is particularly active today. We can hear him a lot.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u187	He's in verva, I have to recognize him. I'm trying to call him to order, but it's hard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u188	It bothers you that I'm working. Is the work bothering you, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u189	Work doesn't bother me at all. I'm at your disposal. This does not bother me at all, to the extent that I will reread this article 8.3: "In the event of a dispute, the following procedure shall be followed: the undisputed amount of the royalty referred to in Article 4 shall be paid by the owners to the State by the date provided for in Article 8.2" – therefore on 15 April of the year following the reference period. This is a strict deadline, because it is provided for in the law. Why is it a strict deadline, and the other two not? Because it is precisely from that moment that the interest on late payment will be calculated. They are free to appreciate things as they see fit, but the penalty will be interest in delay from that date. "Secondly, the parties, or in the absence of agreement between them, shall appoint an independent expert." That's what we're doing. What does the convention say, what does Electrabel obviously respect? Because after that, I'm going to tell you about the non-compliance with the convention and what is expected if the convention is not respected. What does the convention say? It is that "the independent expert slices" – in other words, decides – "on the disputed calculation elements for 15 September of the same year". And you know how long it takes. He has the possibility, since it is not a time limit that provides for a sanction, to do so again after. And the parties show this since, after the deadline of 15 September, the operators, the owners, decided to propose the appointment of an expert, although they might very well not have done so. Third element, point C, "the owners shall pay their share of the possible balance of the royalty which the independent expert would have determined to be due by the owners". So it is the expert who determines what is owed by the owners and who asks them to pay it. It is specified that it is increased by interest at the EURIBOR rate to 3 months plus 150 basis points for the period from 15 April to the date of actual payment. This means that once again, one may think that the parties had the intelligence to plan payments that would take place beyond September 30, because in all the contracts – that's how it works and you know it very well – it is the date of the actual payment that counts to calculate the late interest. And so, again, on 30 September, it is not a strict deadline. This is an indicative deadline, as the expert I am going to read to you, Mr de Lamotte, because I see that you are not convinced by the legal analysis of Janson-Baugniet. I read to you what he has put in relation to the "binding nature" of the date of 15 September contained in Article 8.3 of the Convention of 12 March 2014 on the extension of the operating period of Tihange 1: "This period should be placed in the general context of Article 8 on controls, payments and challenges. This article has several deadlines. One of these is a payment period. The owners, each in proportion to their undivided share in Tihange 1, shall pay the fee referred to in Article 4 to the State by 15 April of the year following the reference period in question. This is a strict period of time for which the penalty provided for in Article 8.3.C is the increase of the fee by interest on late payment for the period from 15 April to the date of the actual payment. Further deadlines are contained in Article 8 of the Convention. The CREG shall verify the calculation of the fee before 30 June of the year following each reference period. An expert appointed by the parties or by the President of the Institute of Reviewers shall settle the items of calculation contested by 15 September. These other deadlines are time-limits and are intended solely to speed up the procedure for recovery for the sole benefit of the State." There's interest on late payment, don't forget it! "In addition, this provision of Article 8.3.B refers to the agreement of the parties and involves third parties in this procedure, which implies, in the event of an appeal, that this deadline of 15 September may not be respected, thus demonstrating that it is a period of order." "Exceeding these time limits could under no circumstances justify a revocation of the right to appeal to an independent expert to decide the disputed elements relating to the calculation of the fee. If that had been the will of the parties, the agreement would have expressly specified the revocation – which is not the case in this case and what the parties have not played."
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u190	Minister, Janson-Baugniet is not talking about the last deadline because he had to put a third indent. He didn't put it on. It is pleasant to you in this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u191	Of course! Everyone's nice to me!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u192	That's the balance on September 30th. They haven't finished their analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u193	Mr de Lamotte, I would like to continue. "In addition," Janson-Baugniet continues, "the Minister wrote to the operators on September 13 to collect the fee and stated that in the event of a dispute, it will be up to the President of the Institute of Enterprise Reviewers to appoint an independent expert to decide the possible elements of the calculation in dispute. The nuclear operators replied by letter of 16 September to contest the amount (so, at that time, the challenge is formalised), while indicating their agreement on the appointment of an independent expert on whom the agreement specifies twice that it is he who decides and decides." That is the explanation of the convention. The other major stream of applications focuses on parameters and indices. Earlier, at the beginning of the order of business, you requested that the chairman of this committee question that of the House to establish a data room so that the CREG could come and explain its report. That is no problem. The CREG will respond of course according to what it wishes or must answer. Rather, it is the latter, as it conforms to its ethics and regulations. MM. Nollet and Lamotte have, on their own responsibility, disclosed certain parts of the report. Mr President, as I say right away, it is my usual line to respect the confidentiality of the convention. Similarly, I respect the obligations of the CREG which it itself has formalised by sending the Parliament a redacted version - since it is liable to criminal penalties if it frees itself from its obligations and responsibility - of its report and letters which it considered relevant and which referred to the parameters. So, I can't...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u194	Until the day you have a problem. As before: you have a problem, you have quoted Article 16, which is normally a secret article. But when you have a problem, you quote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u195	Oh yes, it's very secret, since I think you still have... well, maybe not you, Mr. Nollet, I'm not gonna blame you stupidly. But finally, someone with a favourable wind transmitted the convention to the RTBF, and it was published on its website on July 10, 2015, I believe.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u196	A leak published on the RTBF website, you can quote it, then.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u197	Mr. Nollet, listen. You're asking me questions, I'm trying to answer you. That's what I'm doing. As for the possibility of explaining to you what the parameters are, what I can do especially thanks to my collaborator, we will have to wait for the possibility of a data room. But I think the CREG will explain it even better. I'll tell you right away, there's no problem. The third part is timing in relation to the appointment of the expert. You tell me, because you read it in the press, that I would have appointed a consultant and that I would have been misled into the IKW. Look, I'm absolutely... I have to tell you I'm sorry to contradict you. Actually, there were two IKWs. One on September 19 and one on September 23. In these IKWs, we inform the people who represent the ministers. As you know, Mr. Nollet, they are part of an executive and they can receive confidential information, with the obligation to keep it confidential, and they are working on these elements to be fully informed and to inform their minister in order to make the best decision. The functional firm explained the approach and timing. In a context like this, the government is fully committed to this process. I will not reread, unless you wish, Mr President, the chapter on public procurement, on which the cabinet Janson-Baugniet makes all the details necessary to properly mark the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u198	Your proposal wasn't that one.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u199	No, Mr. Nollet. That wasn't my proposal. Don't imagine that I'm making proposals saying, "It's gonna be like this and not otherwise." You think that, but you don't. We need large review firms and we've consulted four of them. Some of them have conflicts of interest, for the simple reason that in their work as reviewers, they may be in contact with the companies concerned. They must have declined. For those who have not declined, there is at this point an exchange with them to see what the scope of the mission is, what should be done. I've already told you about it last week, I've already told you. The idea is to transmit to them the report of the CREG, the agreement, confidentially, the letters I exchanged with the operators, to ask them to analyze all this and to find not only the definitive solution for the fee surcharge between 1 October 2015 and 31 December 2015. Secondly, in order to avoid going back to the same difficulties, because they will reappear in the years to come, I will explain this to you. A parameter is obsolete and the thing is recurring, there is an impact every year. The other, it covers two specific periods at the beginning and end, in 2015 and 2025. So we have to solve the problem, we know it. Why not ask this expert, who will still have to do the work since the first period is concerned and it is on this that he must definitely make a judgment, and that the other parameter concerns all the years to come until 2025? This work, he will do at the same time and he will then be able to decide to put in the formula a perennial parameter that allows to avoid disputes each year. I would like to remind you that some Members of Parliament were well aware of the situation. I quoted Mr Willem-Frederik Schiltz, who was a federal parliamentarian at the time and who said, "It would still not be necessary for the first challenge, the condom convention." It must be able to give what it is intended for, i.e. the safe and precise amount of a royalty in favour of the State. You believe what you want: "Marghem is under guardianship," "it's not the first time," "it's systematic." You think that. No, the government, through the work of the IKW, is informed and will decide. Why? It is normal for the government, which is a party to this convention, to make the best decision on the choice of expert, knowing that it will do so in agreement with the operators, always within a conventional framework. It is not to be believed, as in Article 16.3 and its application, since it is a convention, that the government says that now it is untel and that it will be like that! It is obviously an agreement that is worked out, exchanged with the operators. It makes sense because it's a convention. A convention is like a marriage or divorce, Mr. Nollet. This is always done two or three times here in this case. Anyway, there's a deal. The aim is not to renegotiate the whole convention; the aim is to repair the defective elements and to ensure that it is done once and for all in order to avoid the subsequent payment of experts each year when there are disputes over one or the other element. You also tell me, I am very surprised, that I am weakening the state's position by giving operators the CREG report. But, at last, they know anyway. They obviously have the necessary teams. They provided all documents relating to their expenses and revenues. They worked with CREG on that period between...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u200	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u201	I don't know who said that. They worked with CREG during this period by exchanging several calculation notes. That's perfectly legitimate. The CREG, which is completely independent, does not feel pressured, since it exercises its duty of verification, which it will retain until 2025, as I have already pointed out twice last week. It will continue to examine costs and revenues. Moreover, it cannot replace the provisions of the Convention, i.e. the expert who decides to fix the amount or the parties who choose to change the parameters. It's not in his power. CREG has only a very specific role, which is to verify costs and revenues, which it will keep for another ten years. It will be able to fulfil it in good conditions because it will no longer be obliged to plead for any hypothesis on the basis of a certain parameter that needs to be corrected, so that it must suggest one or the other solution. You will have noticed, I say and repeat, that I have nevertheless opted for the highest fork in the interest of the State and that I have therefore made sure to recover the maximum amount. I relied on the CREG report, which, in a maximum assumption, had set the amount at an additional three million. So you understand that, in any case, the expert must work independently. It is important that he receives all possible and conceivable documents that he will ask for. We need to be assured that he can do this work in depth and that he will definitely solve this problem. For the 16th and 17th of September, I will take the Belga dispatches, because I see that you are rightly interested. I told the president not to feel like I changed the line of communication between those two dates. It is not so much a matter of substance as a matter of communication. "Yes," he replied. You'll ask him. In any case, I will inform you about my remarks on the 16th and the 17th. On September 16th, I'm making a Belga at 2:39 p.m. Indeed, I sent a letter with acknowledgment of receipt to Electrabel on 13 September. At that time, I still don't have an answer from EBL and Electrabel. You have seen it: I will receive these answers on the evening of September 16 at 7:30 p.m., or 8 p.m. Don't blame me for knowing you or trying to be very precise in everything I do! This is one of the virtues of our common work: you have used it to me. At that time, no expert is appointed, no conflict is formalized, since I do not have a written document saying that the report of the CREG is being challenged and that one wants – or not, because they could say no – to appoint an expert. But in the evening, I receive, and you saw it in the rooms I sent you, the letter from EBL, and then the letter from EDF. The next day, I was interrogated by RTL. I can say no, I won't say anything, but I don't think I'm exaggerating in terms of public communication, and I say there's an expert appointment. Foremostly, since we had agreed with this approach, and this, at the time when this proposal was made on Friday evening by EBL and Electrabel, is the implementation of the Convention. So there are no different lines of communication, but a reality that changes. Don't blame me for communicating on the basis of reality! I'm saying what's at the moment I'm talking. There's no expert at the time. In the evening, there's one. The next day, I say it. Obviously, there is not much else to be found there but the evolution of a reality that I witness through precise communication. Then what's going on... I'm not done, Mr. Nollet...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u202	You say there is no disputed amount, which is why no expert was appointed. You say it on the 16th. But on the 16th, you also say that you have already contested the amount. That's what's wrong with your reasoning! That's how it is all the time! You say things but when you look in detail very precisely, you are next to the plate!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u203	But no, Mr. Nollet, I'm sorry! May I? Mr. Nollet can give me my statement. That's what I said earlier, if my answers don't suit you, do them for me!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u204	The press release states: "There is currently no disputed amount, which is why no expert is appointed".
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u205	But that's the truth! Thanks for reading it for me, I should have put on my glasses. That's the truth! There is no disputed amount! Read my letter of September 13th, it's very precise. I say, "You owe me so much, pay me." They say to me: "No, we do not agree, and we propose the appointment of an expert". That's the truth. You can read it any way you like.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u206	There's no amount!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u207	That's not true, Mr. Nollet. I don't know where you were when I spoke to Mr de Lamotte about the painting earlier: I claim 5.1 million from each operator in the painting, and I ask them to pay. You have to admit reality. You have to comply with it like I do. What happened? There was a dispute that came together the same evening because Electrabel and EDF responded by saying, "We don't agree but ok for the appointment of an expert". Why? Because the convention provides for this mode of dispute resolution. When you read section 8.3 and section 16.3, it is the dispute resolution method chosen by the parties. There is another way of resolving conflicts, I wanted to come to it. If indeed the parties had not said "propose the appointment of an expert", but had said "no, we do not want an expert, it is 7.2 million and basta", automatically we should have activated what is provided for in the convention, namely the arbitral settlement. These are the articles taken at the end of the convention that you know well – don't you? – which say that for the settlement of disputes, any party may resort to the pre-arbitral interim rules of the International Chamber of Commerce, etc. (Articles 19 et seq.). The same way of working has been foreseen for the Doel 1 and Doel 2 Conventions. It is the Energy Charter Treaty, which I have already mentioned many times in this committee, which provides that when we have international companies, not only states must protect the investments that are made by these companies – it has a particular rule, namely confidentiality – but we also often have arbitration regulations that are foreseen. It is not the common courts, which are the usual ones, that deal with this type of dispute. That's how a convention works. But we're not there. There is no difficulty, it is necessary to appoint this expert, to do so under the best conditions. Earlier, I heard the members of this committee say, "We would like to know when he is appointed, what his mission will be, etc." You will know that because obviously it is the government that will decide that. You also asked what amount will be arbitrated, because at some point, it will ask operators to pay an amount. And so, at that time, we will know and we will obviously have an explanation of this work. There you go.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u208	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u209	We'd like to go fast. From my point of view – as I said in the discussions we had – I would like him to be able to work within ten days of his appointment. I think it's quite feasible. If now, of course, the one chosen with the very strict conditions of independence, quality of expertise, etc., says that it takes him fifteen days, three weeks or a month, it will be like that. The aim is, of course, to go as quickly as possible, but it is important to avoid blazing, we must avoid that this expert cannot work in all conditions of confidentiality, serenity, with all the documents needed to give the right number.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u210	When do you think you can appoint the expert?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u211	The government will pronounce itself incessantly. Mr Nollet, I will tell you spontaneously.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u212	He doesn't believe it anymore!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u213	No, I don't think he believes it anymore. But, Mr. Nollet, we'll see each other again on October 4. You may recall that we postponed the questions to that date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u214	Colleagues, we have heard the Minister's answers. We will see if colleagues find them satisfactory or not. I propose that everyone make, in a synthetic way, a reply as a conclusion, so that our work does not go on forever. I appeal to the colleagues' concern for brevity. Secondly, we will talk about the organization of work. Who would like to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u215	Before that, we need answers, Mr. President, otherwise we're going to go in circles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u216	Everyone will rest their questions, in turn.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u217	We're going to turn around, because questions that have been asked have not been answered by the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u218	Madam Minister, you were asked to go quickly, I just heard it. How many hours have we been here? Two meetings, one plenary meeting, two committees. Why? Because you're not telling the truth, because you're omitting to do things. When you're here, it's like you're on a theater stage trying to convince us and, above all, smoke us. It's always under pressure that we get not satisfactory answers but that we get bits of reactions. That's all we get here! Minister, section 16.3 was at the heart of our discussions. You tell us that you reacted well after the CREG, we contest it since in December, the CREG also asks you to seize. Then you said, "What do you think I did at my meetings in February, March and April?" I'm asking you. I guess there's some minutes. Did the CREG accompany you for the parameters? Did your administration accompany you? You couldn't find a solution for the settings. But I'm probably the one who misunderstood again! What are the results of your negotiations on 16.3, alone against Electrabel? None! Are you really going to ask 16.3 in front of Electrabel? Did you write a letter that you were operating on 16.3 after October and after December? If so, I would like to have all the documents because there are no probative results. I also denounce the fact that 16.3 was not to be activated at the same time as 8.2. We don't negotiate parameters that we could have negotiated a year ago when there is a dispute over an amount! That's where you weaken the state. If you had listened to the CREG, if you had organized yourself with an administration or even with external expertise to correctly notify 16.3 to Electrabel and EDF, the CREG could have done its evaluation and validation of the figures correctly in April. You may say that no, you didn't convince us the other way around. Or give me all the minutes of the negotiations you made, with whom, with what expertise and with what parameters and parameters you proposed to Electrabel to change the convention. Furthermore, Madam Minister, on the timing of the expert, I heard that you were going to answer us, probably on October 4. Mr President, I will allow myself to return because I have lost the thread.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u219	Madam Secretary, you manage to twist things over and over again and not to give the answers we are asking. And when it gets hard, it's confidential. If we ask for very precise matters, you say that you cannot answer them because it is confidential. What matters every time is the fact that the CREG has warned you that there was a problem with the parameter and the fact that you didn't act too late. You ask us what we think you have done and you list some dates in February. We cannot know that, Madam Secretary. You list a number of meetings with Electrabel and EDF. What was discussed there? Was the CREG there? Did you prepare that together with the CREG? The fact alone that the CREG writes a letter to you on 10 October and says that you must activate 16.3 of the Convention, the fact that the CREG repeats this in almost exactly the same terms in a letter dated 17 December, in particular that there is a problem with one of the parameters and that they remind you that you can activate 16.2 of the Convention, the fact that the CREG does so alone means that you have done nothing. Otherwise, the CREG would not repeat that you should do so. Did you activate this point? You will reply that it is confidential. And even if that is the case, a lot of time has passed between October and February. If it is so important that these parameters are correct, so that there is no dispute, something we are all convinced of, then you should have acted immediately. You didn't. You can't convince us of that. You won't answer that. This is something that you are always in the dark about over and over again. Madam Secretary, it's always about the same thing. We all want Electrabel and EDF to pay what they have to pay, but the way you have acted again in this dossier continues to raise questions until the last minute. You say that the date of 15 September is not a date, because there are no sanctions. Electrabel and EDF wouldn't react that way, would they? Madam Secretary, I don't know if you've read correctly how Electrabel reacts. Electrabel says you can appoint an expert. Actually, that's what it comes down to. "We contest the results of the verification mission carried out by CREG and therefore we do not agree with the payment, etc." However, they want to be constructive and you may designate an expert. But are they saying they'll agree to the expert's findings? Not at all. By the way, you can turn the case around. You sent them a letter on 13 September, to which they responded on 16 September, even after 15 September, which may be a reason to note that this is outside the Convention and that it will therefore be very generous. Madam Secretary, I really don't understand. You claim to be so concerned about the public interest and the consumer, and I do not understand why you dealt with this dossier in this way. It's never before. See? Admit you dragged the case. I hope that we will not bear the consequences of this. We look forward to the expert who will be appointed and to the way in which the file will continue to be accepted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u220	Mr President, I should like very briefly to give my impression of the discussion this afternoon until now. Mrs Marghem, should the officials of the Treasury collect taxes in the way you act, our country would face an even greater financial problem. In that opinion, I have once again been confirmed. Mrs Marghem, I will confine myself to the only question that still matters today, namely the involvement of the Prime Minister in the dossier. He was informed on June 29th. What has happened between you and the Prime Minister as well as between the Prime Minister and the operators and between the Prime Minister and the CREG? Can you be clear about that, please?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u221	Mr Calvo, are you waiting for an answer? [[Permission granted.]] Madam Minister, Mr Calvo asked a specific question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u222	The Prime Minister has a collaborator who participates in the IKW, so this collaborator is aware of the CREG report, what was done at that time. In memory, in July, he sent an e-mail to our firm and he also participated in the IKW on 19 and 23 September. So there's no problem. I understand your concerns. The problem is, of course, whether I have a big avenging finger above me that says, "Be careful, Mrs Marghem, you are under guardianship, be careful!" So the Prime Minister's office did what it had to do for the functional office to do its own job, and this without difficulty.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u223	I understand when you say they participated in the IKW in September, but it's not to force the functional firm to go through certain steps or steps. What did the Prime Minister's office do after June 29, other than intercabinets?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u224	I'm telling you, I think there were e-mails, or an e-mail – at least I remember an e-mail on July 1 – where the member of the Prime Minister's office asks us what's going on about the CREG report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u225	So, as I understand it, on June 29, the Prime Minister's office and your office are aware of the problems. And the only thing the Prime Minister's office does next is send an e-mail to your office?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u226	But obviously, Mr. Calvo, listen, you're making things bigger. It is normal: there is a functional minister, I, and so we have a collaborator who deals with this file and this collaborator works; he did what I just explained to you, he had a meeting with the CREG on 19 July, he asked questions to the CREG, he had the answers on 11 August, etc., etc., etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u227	So you confirm that apart from this email, the Prime Minister's office did nothing until the IKW on September 19th? It's still important. This is still the case with this convention. When Mr Wollants referred to Di Rupo earlier, he was also aware, since he co-signed the convention. So the question of the Prime Minister's role is not weird!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u228	We're going to ask all the e-mails of the time, Mr. Calvo, all the e-mails of the time between Mr. Di Rupo and Mr. Wathelet, to know if the Prime Minister... A prime minister, in general, has a cross-sectional position and he lets his ministers work in the functionality that is theirs. That's all. I answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u229	Yes, if the ministers' work is correct, I understand that attitude. But in this case, I do not understand that after the warnings of the CREG, the Prime Minister is doing just that, that he waits for articles to appear in Le Soir to participate in the intercabinets. I don't understand. I thank the Minister for being very clear about the Prime Minister's role or lack of role on this issue. We'll do a follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u230	A small clarification in this respect is that questions are addressed to the Prime Minister in the Committee on the Interior, as it should be. The debate can take place there when the time comes. Mr. de Lamotte, do you still have any questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u231	Yes, Mr. President, I still have questions. I would like the minister to respond. There are at least four of them. I didn't get an answer with respect to the parameters. Minister, you are criticizing the Tihange 1 convention by saying that it is badly done, that the parameters are not working. But in Appendix C2 to the Doel 1 and Doel 2 convention, you take the same parameter. You wrote 0.995, when it was about writing 0.996. This costs €2.5 million. Are you aware of that? Are you going to give another 2.5 million to Electrabel?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u232	Can you answer that, Madam Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u233	The answer is no, and no. No, the parameters you're talking about, that I'd have, etc.: no. And no, I claimed $3 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u234	When you say no, you do not want to explain, while the parameter in the T1 convention is not correct. You're criticizing him, but you're taking the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u235	If we want to go into the details of the parameters, I have told you, and I repeat, that we must begin to enter into the CREG report. If a decision is made to do so in a data room, there is no problem. But here, I won't.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u236	This is the Doel 1 and 2 Convention. It's now that we're talking. It's applicable now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u237	I answered, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u238	No, you didn't answer. And I would point out that the Prime Minister also signed this document. Secondly, Mr President, I still have some hesitation and I am not convinced by the minister's answer on the notion of strict deadlines. In Janson-Baugniet's note, there are two indents on the date of 15 April and 15 September; there is no indent on the date of 30 September. Clearly, there is a blur in the question. I would like the minister, if she can, to make it clear. But I, Mr. Speaker, would ask you to seek the legal services of the House, since we cannot hear Janson-Baugniet's supplement, to know whether September 30 is in their opinion a strict deadline.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u239	Mr de Lamotte, I take note of your request.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u240	Thirdly, the minister did not reply to me on the letters that preceded her e-mail of 23 October. I did indeed request copies of the documents, such as the Speaker of the Chamber, received yesterday afternoon, that is, which were written on 21 or 22 October. I would like to know if we can dispose of these letters.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u241	If you allow me, when we are done, we will discuss the order of business and return to the documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u242	Mr President, I would ask you to include this question and the simulations of CREG in the list. Fourthly, you have given all the arguments of the CREG to the operators, since you have submitted this report. So they have it in place so they can dismantle it. If you have submitted the CREG report in extenso, this means that you have communicated the economic elements of Electrabel to EDF and vice versa.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u243	They're co-owners, Mr. de Lamotte.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u244	I know that, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u245	As they own the same plant, they know very well what the costs and revenues of the plant are.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u246	In this case, why does EDF want the convention to remain secret and confidential, and not Electrabel, if they are together?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u247	No, sir de Lamotte! Electrabel passed on to us – I guess the president said it and, if he didn't say it, he'll do it...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u248	I'll do the summary at the end of the meeting, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u249	Mr. President, excuse me. Electrabel also wants to maintain confidentiality. I got the answer from both of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u250	You said it differently, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u251	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u252	You said it differently last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u253	Mrs Temmerman, I said this differently because – as I said earlier – when I interviewed Mr Mestrallet in June 2015 for Electrabel and Mr Lévy for EDF, the former agreed to a data room, while the latter said he did not agree with anything, because he wanted total confidentiality. That was the last piece of information I had. As I expected your questions, I anticipated them. I asked Electrabel and EDF and here I have the answer you can read because it will be distributed. She's already been. All right! I can't force them to say this or that. They say what they think they have to say and it's their freedom. I apologise for repeating this; it is the original nature of the convention in which the three parties agreed and requested confidentiality. That's it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u254	Minister, on August 11, you said this was the first information on parameters. You said it last week. When you read the report of this email, there is no question of the parameters. So I don't see where you went to get that. There are questions that are asked and for which there is no answer. You said that CREG needed to know the costs to define the parameters. Not at all! Parameters are not defined based on a response that you want to hear. We define parameters and then the elements complete and we have an answer. You are doing the opposite of what is absolutely necessary!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u255	You must submit your application to the CREG, Monsieur de Lamotte! I think they need you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u256	Parliament has the last word for its reply. Mr de Lamotte, what is your conclusion?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u257	There'll be too many people at CREG, minister. I don't think it's useful. There are other things to do, including managing the energy issue properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u258	Mr President, I still have a question that I am not asking the minister. How long will Charles Michel still accept this kind of situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u259	If I can take it that we have concluded our exchange of views, before proceeding to the order of business, I would like to give you two or three informations. Minister, the two e-mails from Engie-Electrabel were distributed transparently to colleagues. A provisional report will be available on the House's website within 48 hours. Thanks to the services: we still had a debate of several hours, in both languages. It seems to me that everyone has spoken. Personally, like some colleagues, I am not convinced that all the answers have been given to all the questions, but we still remain, in this type of debate, on some frustrations. I didn't appreciate the answers of the type "it's the fault of Voltaire, it's the fault of Rousseau". The debate, I think, is not over. During this session, we sent a letter to Mrs Fauconnier on the question of the data room. An essential part of our discussions revolved around the notion of confidentiality. I find it very reasonable, and on the whole I find that various Commissioners have gone in this direction, even if they are no longer all present. This formula is a good compromise and creates a real balance between the notion of confidentiality, which is recalled by the two e-mails of Engie-Electrabel, and parliamentary scrutiny. I believe that this concerns two things: the first concerns the CREG, the confidential report and the letters which, in the version transmitted to us, have been redacted from the so-called secret or confidential elements. Secondly, Madam Minister, in confidentiality, we also find what is within your jurisdiction, where you tell the Speaker of the House that this is bound by confidentiality. We can leave this aside in the first place. Ms Fauconnier replied: "In response to your letter of 27 September 2016, and on behalf of the Management Committee, we wish to point out that the CREG is not 'owner' of the given figures, contained in the confidential report on the mission of CREG under the Tihange 1 Convention. It is Engie and EDF who have the right of confidentiality on this data, as happened for the Tihange 1 convention. Providing a data room does not solve the problem of confidentiality, as CREG would remain a potential source of commercially sensitive and therefore criminally liable 'fleet' figures. A solution, if you wish, in spite of everything, this data room – and I think some colleagues have insisted – would "consist in signing a discharge to the CREG on its duty of confidentiality" – is therefore a message that it sends to the person who sent the mail, i.e. myself, the chairman of the committee, "and a commitment on the part of parliamentarians to respect the obligation of secrecy. No mention of this report may be published in the acts. In addition, the CREG would agree to communicate this report, through the data room, on an exceptional basis, given that some Members of Parliament, at the current sitting, clearly have this document and that it is important that information be shared equally among all Members of Parliament." I share that view. "Under these conditions, we will make available the requested documents". That is a detailed answer. She invited the chairman of the committee to take up his responsibilities. Each co-worker who would consult would sign a document. I am in favour of this formula. I will quickly explain this to Mrs Fauconnier. We will see how this will be dealt with, but I will give a positive answer to the request for discharge. Indeed, I believe that from a democratic point of view, members of this Parliament have the right to read the documents, under fairly strict conditions, while collaborators of the minister have had the full confidential version with the figures and the data. I do not see any reason why parliamentarians would not be able to learn about it. On the basis of this, we will make the contacts as soon as possible in this direction, so that we can organize, as a first step, this data room with the documents and mails of the CREG. I do not know if there are any requests for intervention on the organization of work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u260	Mr. Speaker, I agree with your offer of discharge, and I would like to point out that confidentiality is part of the Rules of the House. I have another request regarding confidentiality, under the same circumstances. It is that the request made to CREG be also made for the Minister's documents that have also been redacted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u261	Mr. Chairman, if we refer to the beginning of our work, the minister argued and justified that a series of documents that she had were not going to be transmitted because the CREG was not transmitting her report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u262	No. When it reaches the bottom of the convention, I do not.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u263	As we have found the modalities for functioning, I simply ask, in a consistent manner, that all documents be transmitted as well. What comes into the data room must already be there and what needs to be added to it must be complementary, so that the two times can be reconciled. I'm telling the minister that the responsibility is on her. There is no longer any argument that blocks. We found the modalities. Minister, I ask you to be fully transparent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u264	Mr President, should not what you have just proposed here be discussed in the Conference of Presidents?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u265	This is a request addressed to me as chairman of this committee. I will take responsibility for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u266	It's the chairman who decides. This has been repeated several times in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u267	Mr President, I would like, on the timeline, after the data room has been closed, since I imagine that there will be a certain period of time for consultation by parliamentarians, we can have a hearing of the CREG. And Electrabel and EDF, too. Not to mention the note from the Legal Service.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u268	It's noted, Mr. de Lamotte. Mrs Cassart has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u269	Frankly, I had read the agenda, I listened to a lot of things today. I know that the committee can organise this work, but when we come to such important things, I ask for decisions to go back to the Conference of Presidents. In any case, we do not have the quorum to decide there now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u270	Mr President, unfortunately your committee does not have a quorum. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u271	We're not deciding on auditions at this time. I have taken note of Mr de Lamotte's request and he has made it clear, on the timeline, that the data room problem must first be solved, the data room must have the elements and then we will see. I would therefore hand over the order of business to a future committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u272	We can still be consulted and decide. The order of business is not decided now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u273	That is what I have just said: the order of business is not decided now. Mr Friart has the floor now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u274	I'm going back to what my colleague was saying. I hear that we are making suggestions but no decision is taken tonight and we will return to all these issues at a future meeting, when the quorum is reached.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u275	Two things. We cannot do this if the majority does not want to remain until the end of the debate to protect its minister. It is also a signal from all the other parties, since there is only the MR present. We're just taking note.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u276	[[Without microphone]] It's already seven o'clock in the evening. It's been a long time since I could have left, but I stayed to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u277	There's only the truth that hurts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u278	Ne boudez pas votre plaisir.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u279	Let me remind you that the order of business was in item 2. You have played a role in transparency, Mr President, since it is on the agenda in all letters, in a very understandable way. "Order of business" is more understandable than what we heard today. On the other hand, the CREG is just asking for a discharge from the president, and you have taken your responsibility. It is therefore not a question of reconsidering this decision. In addition, we have the minister here before us. I made a request, and Mr.Nollet made the same request, to have the same confidentiality waiver as at CREG level for all of the Minister's documents that we received redacted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u280	From the perspective of a data room, of course?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u281	Under the same conditions as CREG. I am simply asking the minister whether or not she will give us all the documents. For the hearings, I hear the arguments of the MR. We will, of course, vote in this regard when we are in number. This is not a hearing, it is a discharge. And the president took all his responsibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u282	Mr President, I make a clear distinction between what we have in item 1 of our agenda and the communication you made at the end of the debate on item 1 and the question of discharge and the request to colleagues who would like to enter the data room to sign the document as well. This is related to point 1. It's done. It's over. It's in the report. On point 2, there are requests that are made today to first hear the CREG, if I have heard correctly, and then Electrabel and EDF. What does the procedure say when we are in numbers as we are today?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u283	We are not in the conditions to be able to decide now. In any case, I consider this to be an informal request. I hear the requests and we will come back to discuss the agenda and the organization of work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u284	So, on point 1, Mr President, there is a pending point for the moment – and several colleagues have put it – as the CREG is no longer a problem since we have found the modalities, it is that the minister also makes available in the data room all these elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u285	Thank you, Mr. Nollet. If I no longer have a request from colleagues, I give the floor again to the minister, who wanted to react to the various speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u286	Mr President, I see that Mr Nollet understands the situation a little better after having understood it a little less or, in any case, after suggesting that he had understood it less.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u287	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u288	I have the floor. You said: "Since the minister binds the state's confidentiality to that of the CREG, then the two questions must be linked." I can hear you very well. You now state: "As we have solved the problem of CREG,..." and that it has an obligation that is different from that of a party to the convention, it is bound by professional secrecy and is punishable by criminal penalties. Hence the discharge of responsibility concerning them, to be signed by the President who undertakes to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u289	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u290	As I wrote to the President, the CREG has a special obligation which comes from Article 26 § 2 of the Electricity Act, with its professional secrecy. The editor of the report, which is the CREG, decides, on the basis of this responsibility, to exburse certain parts. That is why we have received these documents. I can't do more than she does in this regard, because I have to follow what she does. In addition, the Belgian State is a party to an agreement the confidentiality of which obliges all parties, i.e. EDF, Electrabel and the Belgian State. As you have understood very well in your second sentence, you know very well that this obligation is of a different nature. It is a treaty obligation which is linked to the existence of this convention. That is why you have made the right distinction between the obligation of CREG provided for in the Electricity Act and this obligation of confidentiality, which is provided for in the Convention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u291	I have two requests for intervention: Mr Friart and then Mr Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u292	I'm going back to that privacy waiver. I am very sceptical: can the chairman of the committee take on this responsibility? Again, in my view, this is a matter for the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u293	Mr President, I believe that other colleagues regularly go with me to the Conference of Presidents. When discussing the order of business and the organization of the work of the committees, it is always the committee that decides and that is always what the majority recalls.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u294	Here, we do not have a quorum.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u295	So what? We are talking about point 1 and on that issue there is no need for a vote. It is about a communication that the President made. This point is settled. You are right about item 2, but it will be settled in committee, not in the Conference of Presidents. And we'll be there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u296	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u297	Mr Nollet has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u298	Madam Minister, if you'll listen to me for another thirty seconds. On the documents that are within your jurisdiction and that must come into the data room, do not make us go as far as the Prime Minister to recall the jurisprudence that has already been set up here, in this commission, and under the previous legislature to have access, because the government said it was OK in a data room, Wathelet's letter, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the jurisprudence of the decision of the Conference of Presidents of July. Don't make us go all the way to the Prime Minister to ask for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u299	If there is no other request for intervention, I will say that, finally, after this almost five-hour debate, the substantive question is that of parliamentary control of the government. What are the means, in secret, confidential and other files, to exercise this parliamentary control properly? I note that there have been precedents in the nuclear field where data rooms have been organised. So I confirm that on this subject, the President of the CREG tells us that it is OK, after explaining the legal context and everything that has been said, but on two conditions. Both conditions must be met. I, for my part, take on my responsibilities as chairman of this committee and every colleague who consults will, of course, also take his own. As for the modalities, we will later see how to organize them. Can I conclude the debate on this point?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u300	Mr President, are you referring to the agreement signed with the electricity producers or to the CREG document?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u301	I refer to the report as it was sent to us in the non-confidential version, i.e. redacted numbers and data, to the emails and e-mails exchanged between CREG and the Minister. I am referring to these two elements because it seems that not all parliamentarians have the same level of information. The redacted letters of most of the information did not give much indication. If we want to do a proper job, we need this data, even in a data room formula, as it has already been implemented in our assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u302	In principle, consensus is needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u303	No, I don't!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u304	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u305	I think the committee presidents still have a few prerogatives. We will close the question on this point. I would like to thank the Minister for taking part in the exchange of views. I thank the colleagues who spoke and asked the questions and gave their views on the matter. I consider that the sitting has been adjourned but that the case is not closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-27-54-commissie-ic494x.u306	Mr President, as far as we are concerned, we will take stock of the Conference of Presidents.
