ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u1	Colleagues, you will have noticed that there are a lot of questions on the agenda. Once it is not customary, I will remind all of the Rules of Procedure: the questions cannot last more than two minutes, so that with the answer and the reply, the whole does not exceed five minutes. I will therefore ask you to be as concise as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u2	Mr President, Minister, my question dates back to mid-February. However, it is still topical. It deals with the rights of children whose parents no longer live together. The title may be somewhat misleading. After all, not only in the case of divorces but also in the case of cohabitants who break up, there are often children who need to be settled. I refer in my question, among other things, to the most recent annual report of the Commissioner for Children's Rights in November 2015. This shows that a total of 1 028 reports to the Commissioner for Children's Rights dealt with 217 reports on divorce, 103 on parenthood and 19 on pedigree and adoption. A third of all reports from that Commissioner are therefore about family matters. That theme was also addressed during the presentation of your policy paper in December 2015. You stated at that time that you would like to amend the inaccessible letter of call given to a child over the age of 12 to be heard by a family judge. We also read at that time that, in your opinion, the report of the conversation with the family judge should no longer be included in the file. That knife cuts both ways, of course. A child must be able, on the one hand, and as you say, to speak with a judge without fear. Parents, on the other hand, may no longer be able to respond appropriately if they do not know the position of their child or children in relation to the procedure vis-à-vis an independent person. What is now explained by the children can also be refuted by the parents if they know what the report says. If this is no longer the case, it is not possible to refute unjustified reports. That is why I have four specific questions for you. Firstly, could you clarify the proposals? Secondly, to what extent was a balance sought between the rights of the child, on the one hand, and the rights of parents, on the other? What guarantees are there that what the child says is true? How will the judge verify that in the new scenario you have in mind? What is the timing of things?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u3	Mr President, Minister, since the introduction of the family court on 1 September 2014, every minor has indeed the right to be heard in proceedings which concern him or her. A number of concrete procedures have been incorporated into the law and any minor from 12 years of age who is interested in a procedure before the family court may be heard by that family court. The aim is to involve minors effectively in decision-making in matters of interest to them. Of course, when a minor goes into legal proceedings, that is very far-reaching. It is therefore important that these children are surrounded with the necessary care and legal experience. Now that the family court has been working for more than a year, I would have liked to have a first evaluation of a number of comments that have already been made. Firstly, the letter sent by the court to the minor may not in practice be opened by him or her. What if a parent doesn't tell the child about this letter? Is there a possibility of monitoring this? If so, how does that happen? Secondly, the information form on which the child must indicate whether or not he wishes to be heard by the court must be returned to the court within eight days of receipt. It must be indicated whether or not the child wants to be heard. Only afterwards will the minor receive a notice of call with the specific date and hour. In practice, there is no uniform model for this information form. Some courts inform and invite at the same time, others use the model made available to KB. Wouldn't it be easier to work in the same way in all courts? An unambiguous, simple letter of information could be sent in an understandable language, stating a specific date and time, so that the child only needs to know whether or not he wants to be heard. This would save the Registry a lot of work and money, because only one letter would have to leave. Third, Article 158 (5) of the Law of 30 July 2013 states that "The judge hears the minor in a place he considers appropriate. Unless the court decides otherwise by reasoned decision, the interview shall take place outside the presence of anyone. Is the child usually only heard or learned after more than one year of experience that the judge usually allows the child to be assisted? In the latter case, which people are usually designated to assist the minor? Then I come to my second question. Recently, the family court has been authorized to hear every minor. We need to be very careful about these interrogations. Juvenile judges can be well trained for this, because such an interrogation ultimately requires a specific knowledge and skill. Good training for those who have to take on this task is not only an absolute added value, but even indispensable. Through the Institute of Judicial Training, IGO, magistrates can attend a training course, but it is not mandatory until now. There is therefore no certainty that the juvenile judge dealing with a case with a minor has received any training on how to deal with minors, how to listen to them or how to communicate with them. Juvenile judges themselves also complain that they are not sufficiently formed or supported to speak with young people. However, that is a difficult task. There is neither guidance nor training or support for juvenile judges to interrogate children. In view of its importance, is it not desirable to require such training for juvenile judges? How are new magistrates supervised, trained or supported when taking up a job in the juvenile court? Are they being monitored and evaluated? Is it possible to compare, by judicial arrondissement, the number of magistrates eligible for this versus the number of effective training courses in that field?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u4	Minister, I will not repeat what has been said. I also have a few questions to ask you about children's access to justice. According to a study by Child Rights International Network (CRIN), in terms of children's access to justice, Belgium is particularly well ranked, which is to be welcomed. As in all matters, however, efforts must be continued, hence some very specific questions. What efforts are being made by your administration to adapt the communication of justice to minors? Is there any reflection in this direction? Does the training of judges of the Family and Youth Court include a specific component on how to address, care for and listen to minors? In this area, would there be any gaps to be filled? If a minor disagrees with a decision taken in respect of him, such as the settlement of the right of access, whether at the time of the separation of his parents or subsequently, what means are available to him to request a review of that decision? Finally, how can a minor assert his or her rights in the absence of cooperation from his or her legal representatives?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u5	Mr President, ladies Lahaye-Battheu and Uyttersprot, like you, I am pleased that Belgium is thus recognised for its action with regard to the minor's access to the judge. But this must not prevent us from still trying to improve things where possible. As mentioned in my policy paper for the coming year, the functioning of the family court is under constant review. In practice, various comments and suggestions are made to improve the functioning of the court, including regarding the position of minors within the family court. The rights of minors in divorce proceedings, in particular the right to hear of minors, are extremely important. Within each divorce procedure involving children, parents should put the best interests of the child first. A child must be able to speak freely with the judge at all times, without fear of the parents' reaction. The aim is therefore to further strengthen the right of minors to hear, with the best interests of the child in mind. I am very much aware that the development and further strengthening of this right of hearing requires a difficult balance between the rights of the child, on the one hand, and the rights of parents, on the other. Although the concrete assessment of this right of hearing falls within the jurisdiction of the court itself, a clear and child-friendly framework should be established in which minors can speak freely and be heard. The need for such re-evaluation in order to strengthen the right of a minor to be heard is undeniable if one seeks to improve his or her access to justice. This strengthening is all the more important since it is during his hearing that he can express himself on certain requests from his parents, for example those involved in accommodation. Indeed, a child cannot take action on his own behalf and cannot be a party to a proceeding. This is due to his general inability to exercise. Indeed, this incapacity is, in principle, aimed at any legal act, including those of a procedural nature. Even if the child cannot intervene as a party, he or she plays an important role in the trial, since in principle his or her opinion must be taken into account by the judge when giving it, however, taking into account his or her age and maturity. This strengthening of the right of children to be heard must be accompanied by an improvement in the communication of justice with regard to them. For example, for minors over 12 years of age, a royal decree of 23 August 2014 establishes a model of information mail providing them with a number of information on the content of the hearing and how it will take place. I believe that this model letter can still be improved and we are working on it. In addition, the Act does not currently provide for the information of minors under the age of 12 on their right to be heard. I therefore intend to work with the actors on the ground so that these minors can also obtain information adapted to their age and thus exercise their right to be heard in an informed manner. In addition, part of the training organized by the Judicial Training Institute, which the judge in the Family and Youth Court must follow in order to be able to sit on it, is already devoted to the hearing of minors. Due to the target audience, part of the training concerns non-legal topics, which give judges a description of the context of the hearing and all the information necessary to accompany minors during the hearing. It is given by experienced child psychologists, police officers and magistrates, who introduce them to the art of asking questions according to their age and to certain specific communication techniques. However, I will ensure that the content of this training is consistent with the objectives of improving the communications I have just outlined to you. In conclusion, I would generally like to improve the content of the hearing information and the way it is communicated to minors. I would also like to ensure that the training of judges puts children in trust during their hearings and allows them to know what is expected of them more precisely. To that end, I have set up a working group on the family court, which will have to decide, among other things, on these sensitive issues. This group is composed of different actors on the ground, representatives of the various organizations of the bar, delegate for the rights of the child, Kinderrechtencommissaris, Supreme Council of Justice and members of my administration. It met for the first time on 29 February to decide on various issues relating to the hearing of minors. My administration will analyze the various suggestions raised and translate them, if necessary, into a bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u6	Thank you for your reply, Minister. In particular, I remember that a working party will examine any changes to be made to the right of hearing and training. I would specifically ask you to think carefully about the opinion of that working group. I am absolutely not in favour of the plans not to add the short report on hearing the minor to the file anymore. Often children are only heard when they haven't seen one of the parents for a long time. Children often decide on their own, when they are thirteen, fourteen or fifteen years old, not to go to one of the parents anymore. Then the procedure will be initiated. It is only after two to three months that the child is heard. At that time, the child often says things that are not always consistent with the truth. I believe that the parent should be able to defend himself against this and that he should be able to answer it. If that information is no longer in the file, I think some of our procedures will go completely wrong and will not be in the interests of the children. So I would like to emphasise that one aspect in particular: the short report, which is being produced today about hearing, is crucial in the procedure and must remain in the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u7	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I would like to stress that access to justice for children was indeed assessed positively. That's a bit of a suit for the Justice Department, isn't it? I am pleased that there is an agreement and that we agree on the need for a first evaluation of the current system. If I understand correctly, there will also be a thought exercise to optimize the call form. I also look forward to the working group that has been set up, in all areas. I believe that magistrates have a difficult and important task, not only in terms of interrogation skills, but also in terms of supporting children. I think judges sometimes hear stories they'd rather not hear. If I have understood correctly, there will be a draft law or KB which will list the conclusions of the working group. It was not the subject of my question, but as the honourable Member says, hearing it separately from the child and avoiding interference from either parent will be a very difficult exercise if one does not contradict it. I have another question about parental withdrawal later. I believe that this issue could also be raised with that working group.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u8	Question No 9246 by Mrs Lalieux is transformed into a written question, as is Question No 9305 by Mr Lalieux. Van Hecke and No 9463 by Mr Degroote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u9	Mr President, Minister, three support centres for the evaluation and guidance of perpetrators of sexual offences were set up after the Dutroux case – a centre per Region – whose aim is to promote the reintegration of perpetrators in order to avoid recidivism. This objective is partially achieved; it is to be welcomed. The majority of sexual offenders monitored by these centres are sent by the sentencing courts and the probation board; those who go to full punishment do not receive therapeutic follow-up. The figures in the report of these three centres show that the recidivism rate of the latter is higher than for those who have received therapy (27% and 7% respectively). These figures are significant. I would like to remind you that this is essentially a sexual crime involving children. These associations created in the aftermath of the Dutroux case, whose interest was further emphasized in the special commission to examine the problem of sexual abuse in the Church, whose recommendations were adopted unanimously by this parliament – I like to remind you – suffer from a disinvestment by the federal government. Their reports point to financial problems due to late payments of subsidies. Minister, the three centres are calling for a follow-up of all convicted sex offenders, including those who go to the bottom of their sentence and not only those released on parole. Why not allow offenders serving their sentences in prison to have access to this follow-up? This is primarily an issue that affects the protection of the population from these offenders. It is unworthy that these centres, whose necessity and effectiveness are beyond doubt, are waiting every year for a decision on their fate. It shouldn't. How is it possible that these associations are not assured of their future and are at the mercy of an annual renewal? These associations suffer from a delay in the payment of subsidies. Could you tell me more about this? What are these delays due to? What are your actions to address this? Is an increase in these subsidies planned? In conclusion, a commission of inquiry and a special commission had indicated the need for follow-up on sex offenders. I believe that today, the government must provide resources for this follow-up. It is about the safety of our people.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u10	Mr President, Mrs Lalieux, a few weeks ago, a new consultation was organised within my strategic cell with representatives of the three support centres to discuss the stumbling block and the subsequent modalities of operation. The issue of the follow-up of all perpetrators of sexual crime, therefore also of those who are at the end of their sentence and have not been released prematurely under conditions, was also addressed. In the context of this discussion, reference was also made to an evaluation carried out by the administration of the FPS Justice – the Criminal Policy Service – a few years ago on the implementation of the cooperation agreements with the three support centres. A outline of the recommendations was sent to the heads of the support centres and to the chairmen of the respective accompanying committees, with a request to communicate the status of the situation and the recommendations to be made. On the basis of this information, practical solutions to the stumbling block will be sought and, where appropriate, concrete improvement initiatives will be taken. If it appears that a follow-up of the authors who have gone to the end of their sentence and whose release cannot therefore be subject to conditions is considered relevant, it will be necessary, on the one hand, to provide for a legislative amendment and, on the other hand, to extend the functioning and the means necessary for that purpose. The issue of follow-up to all convicted sex offenders is of interest but not obvious. I want to invest fully, where possible, in therapy as an alternative to deprivation of liberty or as a modality for early release. In this way, the author may be more motivated to seek a solution to his problem and to seek a better understanding of it. If parole and the end of the sentence are close, this motivation declines in the convicted author. The centres are subsidized by subsidising orders to be made on the basis of the annual approved budget. As with other operating costs, these subsidies experienced a linear saving of 20% last year, plus 2% this year. Because I know only too well the importance of these organizations, I was able to reduce the economy last year through redistribution. At the same time, the promise was made to liquidate the first tranche of subsidy for this year as quickly as possible. My wish is to find, in consultation with the centres for the treatment of sex offenders and with the Communities, a structural financial solution in order to ensure the continuity of the operation of these centres.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I'd like to clarify two things. First of all, when I was talking about a follow-up of all sex offenders, especially those who are in pain, it was a question of already allowing this follow-up in prisons. And we know how difficult it is. Indeed, imposing conditions on people who have gone to pains is totally illegal. So I'm not saying we have to go in that direction. But we have to take care of these sex offenders in prison. In addition, you know how much 22% less budget is significant for these structures. This is more significant than working with 1,000 people, as few economies of scale can be achieved because there are few workers. I repeat once again that linear reductions are not good management. At some point, we need to know what the needs are and what the priorities are. For me, the follow-up of sex offenders must be a priority of this government. It would therefore be preferable for these centres to operate on the basis of multi-year agreements, as is done for other institutions within the federated entities. This technique makes it possible to move forward, to see further, which requires less liquidity. Finally, you know that in the context of the sixth reform of the State, the problem of the follow-up of sex offenders has not been regionalized. Perhaps it was an oversight; it is always that we are there and that the responsibility lies with the federal government today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u12	Minister, on 22 November, the police broke into a residence in Rocourt in the municipality of Liège. One of the occupants had been spotted driving a BMW. He was mistakenly taken for Salah Abdelsam, the number one public enemy. In concrete terms, the inhabitants were woken around 5 a.m. by five detonations, broken doors and windows, and by smoke. Twenty police officers, guns on their fists, were in the field. People were forced to wait for long periods, lying in the grass in pajamas in front of the house. The error on the person was quickly recognized but it leaves behind damage, both material and psychological. On the material level, we are talking about a sum of around 16,000 euros. This involves bullet strikes in the entrance hall, double glazing, the shutter at the back of the house, the forced lock, the destroyed door and damage to the tile and terrace. In addition, such searches leave people in shock or even post-traumatic stress. People had to see a psychiatrist and be followed by a psychologist. Mr Minister, I am asking a general question here on the basis of this specific case. Could you please indicate how many searches have been carried out by the authorities since 14 November 2015 as part of the counter-terrorism measures? What proportion of searches did not result in any prosecution or investigation? How many cases can we talk about error? Finally, what about compensation for the innocent victims of the searches? In this case, I am morally committed, in my capacity as mayor, to finding a solution, especially since the policeman who thought he recognized Abdeslam was a communal policeman, a member of the anti-banditist platoon. However, it was replied that this was an intervention by the federal police, based on information provided by the local police. This poses difficulties for the intervention of the city itself. Could you clarify the situation? Is there an early amicable compensation procedure for the aggrieved? Are you considering measures to resolve this type of case?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u13	Mr Demeyer, I can tell you that since 14 November, multiple searches have been carried out by the authorities as part of the counter-terrorism measures. These are more than a hundred searches in total. On the other hand, it is impossible to answer for the proportion of searches that have not given rise to any prosecution. However, I would like to clarify the following. Except for cases of flagrante delicto, there is no search without investigating judge. The purpose of a search warrant is to access private premises in the context of a particular investigation to gather evidence or find persons. An investigating judge may order searches that are fully justified in order to carry out checks that are relevant to the investigation, but this must not necessarily result in the prosecution of the owner or tenant of the dwelling. In addition, each search is justified by a reasoned order based on the elements available to the investigators at the time it is issued. It cannot therefore be concluded that a search would have given nothing, that the search was not justified. As far as the compensation of innocent victims of searches is concerned, there are two different legal bases for compensating for damage caused by searches, which are not specific to the counter-terrorism framework, on the one hand, the rules of the common law of civil liability, on the other hand, the compensation without fault on the basis of the rules on legal costs. In order to obtain compensation under the first type of compensation for misconduct, the person who has been tried must, in accordance with the rules of common law, demonstrate the existence of a fault, damage, a causal link between the fault and the damage. A person who has been harmed may apply to the department for compensation. The administration shall examine the application on the basis of the documents communicated, or even the damage, and, where appropriate, of the opinion and documents provided by the judicial authorities. If the elements of liability are combined, the Belgian State must compensate with the agreement of the Finance Inspector. In the absence of amicable compensation, the courts may be brought before a person who has been brought before the Court by way of a suit of liability brought against the Belgian State represented by the Minister of Justice. Every year, my services process a few judicial files relating to the damage caused by searches, of which usually less than ten result in a state conviction. In order to obtain compensation for material damage in the context of no-fault compensation on the basis of the rules governing legal costs, an application accompanied by the invoice paid must be forwarded to the requesting magistrate. The latter shall forward to the "costs of justice" a paid invoice accompanied by the summons and the minutes describing the search. The service will analyse it and eventually pay for it. It should be noted that it is not excluded that the two mechanisms should be combined, for example in the event that certain items of damage are not covered by the costs of justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u14	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u15	Mr President, Minister, I am contacted by the local elected representatives of the commune of Etalle, concerned about the fate reserved for the seat of justice of peace located in their commune. Indeed, the justice of peace is currently located in a former presbytery. This building has just been renovated and houses, on the ground floor, the justice of peace, and, on the first floor, a residential service for young people with disabilities. The commune has transferred its shares to the Régie des Bâtiments in respect of the ground floor but remains the owner of the floor. It's a rather special situation. Minister, what will happen to this part (ground floor) of the building if the seat of the justice of peace in Etalle is abolished? Minister, let me turn to my second question. Last year, I asked you, on various occasions, about the abolition of the seats of justice for the peace in the province of Luxembourg. You answered me then that it was too early to be able to provide precise answers to the questions I asked you. Since then, you have specified in your policy note that the Masterplan Judicial Buildings will be phased in from this year onwards, in three phases. The first phase consists of the centralization of the two- or three-seat cantons into one headquarters. Mr Minister, can you keep me informed of the seats of justice for peace which, in the province of Luxembourg, will be affected by this masterplan? Which seats will be removed? From what date will these deletions be effective? You explained that you wanted to rearrange the map of the judicial cantons. A study has been carried out. Is it finalized? If so, what are the conclusions? In the event of abolition, what will happen to the buildings hosting justice of peace?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u16	Minister, you are working to reduce the number of courtrooms and, consequently, to reduce the number of justices of peace, as you announced in your Justice Plan. Rationalization is needed in order to achieve savings. This reduction in the number of justices of the peace must be accompanied, in a third phase, by a reorganization of the judicial cantons themselves, "in order to achieve a better distribution of the workload without endangering the proximity of justice to the citizen". It is indeed necessary to give time to the time, but as the work progresses, the rumours also take place in the district of Huy-Waremme from which I am fortunate to be born. Here too, two new cantons are to be attached. Will they both be attached to Liège? Huy's division would be amputated by a third of its surface. As a result, the number of cases handled in Huy would decrease considerably. It is to be feared that the Hutian jurisdiction will be reduced to a skin of grief and eventually disappear. That is why the entire judicial world of Hutanians, lawyers and magistrates, took the pen with Huy's baton, in order to know your intentions in this matter. While it is obviously too early to communicate a final decision, especially since it is probably not taken, in the face of rumours it may be interesting to take stock, to eliminate the false and keep the true. Has there been a final decision on the creation of two new cantons, namely Hesbaye and Hannut? Or is it just a project? If so, what criteria would they be used to determine to which division these cantons will be attached? Is correspondence between the electoral district of Huy-Waremme and the judicial division sought or envisaged? Are the actors in the judicial world of Huy-Waremme or will they be consulted in this matter? How long should we expect?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u17	Mr President, Mrs Poncelet, you are asking me questions that I cannot answer. But as I have already explained here, I have drawn up a plan to rationalize justice for peace. The first phase, which was decided at the end of 2015, dealt with the centralisation of the double and triple cantons. The list of justices of peace involved in this first phase has already been circulated. Here is what is planned for the province of Luxembourg: - justices of peace in Vielsalm, La-Roche-en-Ardenne, Houffalize centralized in La-Roche-en-Ardenne and Vielsalm; - Justices de paix de Marche-en-Famenne and Durbuy centralized in Marche-en-Famenne with maintenance of hearings under the tree in Durbuy; - justices de paix de Saint-Hubert, Bouillon, Paliseul centralized in Saint-Hubert with maintenance of hearings under the tree at Paliseul; - Arlon and Messancy justices of peace centralized in Arlon; - justices of peace in Virton, Florenville and Centralized Floor in Virton with maintenance of hearings under the tree in Florenville. All removal operations are planned for 2016. Stalle forms a triple township with Virton and Florenville. It was decided to centralize everything in Virton. This means that the justice of peace will leave the building of Stallus. This building is owned by the federal authority. If it is no longer intended to be occupied, the SPF Justice will return it to the Régie des Bâtiments. Indeed, it is this service that manages the federal heritage. It is therefore to the Régie des Bâtiments that you must address your question about the future of the seat of the peace justice of Stalle and the other buildings. With regard to phases II and III of the Justices for Peace Plan, they are in full preparation. This also applies to all questions concerning the Huy-Waremme region. The exercise is still underway and we are trying to address each other's concerns. I would like to stress that we are working on the basis, among other things, of the proposals made by the judges concerned. It is impossible at the moment to give a precise timing. This exercise must be carried out properly, thoroughly and spent the necessary time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u18	Minister, I am aware that my questions are very specific, very localized and numerous. I thank you, however, for the answers you have given. I hope to have a written document because following the changes you have made is not obvious. We'll talk to the Régie about the future of this building.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u19	Minister, I also thank you for your answers. This helps to remove some ambiguities and to wait for the work to be done in depth.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u20	Minister, Cellmade ensures that prisons pull in work projects to put prisoners to work and give them a meaningful day's spending. Prison labour is popular with companies because of the low costs. For example, the prison of Leuven Centraal received a project in which the prisoners had to process 250,000 patient records of hospitals. Staples, paper clips and photocopiers should be removed, so that documents can be scanned more easily. As a result of this work, the prisoners have access to a lot of personal patient files. According to the Privacy Commission, there is no breach of the privacy laws. According to a professor of medical law at the KU Leuven in Het Belang van Limburg of 10 March 2016, this does seriously violate patient law. The law says that patient data must be kept carefully and patients must give their consent if something happens to their file. That didn't happen here, according to the professor. A similar discussion recently broke loose in the Netherlands, because Leuven Centraal's prison has also processed a lot of patient data from Dutch hospitals. Inmates were thus given access to, for example, photos of raped children. I come to my questions. First of all, is this Cellmade project in Leuven prison a violation of patient law? If so, what steps does the Minister take? If not, in which the work deviates from the criticism of the professor of medical law? Secondly, what guarantees are there in the Cellmade project that the work carried out by inmates complies with privacy law and other relevant legislation? Thirdly, have projects in Cellmade been discontinued in the past after it turned out that the work started was not so suitable to be carried out by inmates? If so, which projects were involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u21	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, the inmates prepared these files for scanning and scanned them effectively. The prisoners were not given access to the content, given the control by the prison staff and the high rate of work. Cellmade carried out the work on behalf of the nv Canon, who himself, outside Cellmade, maintains the contacts with the hospital from which the files originate. So far, there have been no comments from the Privacy Commission. Each inmate and every member of staff who comes into contact with these files shall sign a statement of confidentiality. Inmates are also screened before they can start employment. In particular, specific criteria are always taken into account depending on the type of contract. Extensive quality checks are also carried out. From 2008-2014 Cellmade prepared medical files for digitisation on behalf of the company iGuana. Due to the negative imagery in the Netherlands, the company was forced to stop working together. For the rest, no other projects have to be stopped because they are not suitable for inmates.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u22	I am already pleased to hear that some sort of declaration needs to be signed and that a screening will take place. This is a very delicate balance and we certainly need to protect those interests. The patient file is one thing. I think it's very delicate. Minister, I once saw them sticking tax letters in envelopes in prison. Fortunately, that was before they were filled in. That's a big difference, of course. However, this is about patient data, which is delicate. We must remain very vigilant that we do not violate any other rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u23	Minister, if a death occurs within a marriage or legally living together, bank accounts and payment cards are temporarily blocked to protect the heirs. The blocking may be lifted by means of a certificate or an instrument of succession. In the meantime, provision shall be made for an amount to be entered in order to cover urgent expenditure. This amount may not exceed half of the money in the common accounts with a maximum of EUR 5 000. In practice, the increased use of credit cards also leads to the conclusion of credit card subscription formulas. Think of Netflix, Spotify, Office Programs and so on. If a subscription is made in this way and the payment is offered after the death, then no payment is made because the accounts are blocked and the subscription is stopped with usual costs of reconnection. Mr Minister, does an offer for payment by credit card have the same scheme, of course, within the same limit that the money must be available in the account and under the same legal fraction?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u24	Articles 1240ter of the WFD and 95 of the Code of Succession do indeed provide that, despite the blocking of the accounts of which the deceased was holder or co-holder and, where appropriate, of the surviving spouse's own account, the bank may, at the request of the surviving spouse, make available an amount that does not exceed half of the available credit balances nor EUR 5 000, regardless of the existence of any right of the surviving or legally resident on the balance of the account. The living wage or living allowance, as it is sometimes called, can be obtained without a certificate or certificate of succession being available. It should be noted that the law does not require anywhere that the living allowance should only be used for the payment of urgent expenditure, so that it is ultimately up to the survivor to decide how the amount which may be paid will be spent. For a number of urgent expenditure, the legislator has provided for a system of privileged costs, in particular Articles 19 (1) (2) and (3) and 20 of the Mortgage Act. It concerns funeral expenses, the cost of the last illness for one year and a number of costs relating to the deceased's last home, such as utility bills, housing rentals or payment of an ongoing mortgage credit. These invoices may be offered to the bank by the notary or by one of the heirs for payment. Article 97 of the Succession Tax Code provides that the living allowance is to be paid, without prejudice to the payment of the privileged costs which I come to describe. Whether a subscription to Netflix, Spotify or Office 365 can be paid via a credit card will largely be determined by the bank's policy in question. Some banks seem to have a rather broad interpretation of the privileged costs and will, for example, equate a newspaper subscription or other media-related subscriptions with a utility so that they can be paid by the bank despite the blocking. This seems to be more difficult for other banks. Even if such a subscription is not regarded by a particular bank as a privileged cost, there is still the possibility to make the payment with the living money obtained. Often this will be deposited by a bank into a non-blocked account of the survivor, if available. In the other case, a new current account is often opened in the name of the longest-lived person to whom the living money is deposited. The question of whether the surviving person's credit card can be linked to that account is likely to depend on technical elements and the bank's policy in question and does not fall within my competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u25	Mr President, Minister, if I have listened to you correctly, I understand that, in the current state of law, credit cards do not prevent the application of the article. You can arrange the payment by credit card if the bank agrees.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u26	Mr President, Minister, since 2011, amicable transactions can be concluded in criminal cases, including on the eve of the commencement of a trial, which we have been denouncing since the beginning. Since the introduction of the system, it has been very difficult to obtain accurate statistics on the cases that have been the subject of such a transaction and on the amounts of transactions paid by defendants, which is necessary to properly assess the system and possibly to be able to amend it. On Saturday, 20 February 2016, the newspapers De Tijd and L'Echo published figures relating to transactions concluded by the Ghent Public Prosecutor's Office. It would be useful to have the figures of the public prosecutor's office and to carry out an adversarial evaluation of the system. Minister, can you provide me, if necessary in writing, with the statistics on criminal transactions concluded by the public prosecutor's office, year by year since the introduction of this system? How many criminal transactions have been concluded by the public prosecutor's office? How many were tax cases? You know my interest in the fight against tax fraud. What amounts of tax have been recovered through this process? What is the amount of penalties paid by the taxpayers concerned? I believe that, in order for the system to be effective, at the very least, the sanction must be sufficient in the light of the mistakes made. What assessment do you make of this potential amicable criminal transaction? Are you prepared to submit these files for adversarial analysis by the Court of Auditors? If it is felt that the files cannot be made widely available, particularly to Parliament, can the Court of Auditors not be a neutral body to take an objective look at the way in which amicable criminal transactions work?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u27	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, with regard to the figures relating to the application of the transaction to the amicable, I am pleased to inform you that I have asked the College of Attorneys General to have an overview of the figures available for the period since the entry into force of the new COL 23/2014 directive. The statistical analysts will address this task without delay. I'll be happy to report the result as soon as I have it. You will understand, I hope, that this question of a statistical nature could not be answered within the time limit set for an oral question. I will not fail to inform you of the results of this research. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u28	Minister, I can't accept your answer in any kind of cordiality. My question was tabled on 22 February and it is 13 April. Moreover, I assume that in every prosecutor's office there are not hundreds of amicable criminal transactions every day. This is a particular procedure, which is not simple, which is not common. I am particularly sorry to note, even though there are certainly plenty of other work under way at the level of justice, that there is a retention of information in relation to this way of working. The opacity that is organised around the amicable criminal transaction makes me think that we are not quite proud of how this system works. We are seeking an adversarial assessment of this mechanism, which we have been challenging from the beginning and constantly. I don't know what I need to do to get the answer. Do I trust you by telling me I'll have the answer in my mailbox within a week? I am particularly disappointed in my personal capacity. From a democratic point of view, it is really problematic to be unable to obtain this kind of information by asking the question almost two months beforehand.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u29	Minister, after a month and a half ago football club Oud Heverlee Leuven suddenly received alarming reports about the gambling behaviour of its own players, it had its matches vetted. Some players would have gambled on their own matches and the European football association UEFA now wants to screen a number of games for suspicious actions. I have been involved in the football world for many years, and that top players would gamble is not new to me. That used to happen in casinos and slot rooms. Now it's happening online. It seems that when playing online under a nickname, one can remain anonymous, but every gambler has ever had to register and make known his identity data. Rumor has it that some professional players log on to gambling sites very regularly to play online. Some professional categories are already excluded for gambling sites and casinos, such as magistrates, notaries, bailiffs and some policemen. Firstly, does the gambling committee or any other institution keep figures on the number of professional sportsmen and women going to casinos in Belgium? Can you tell us anything about this, possibly by sports category? Does the gaming committee or any other institution keep figures on the number of professional sportsmen going to slot rooms in Belgium? Can you tell us anything about this, possibly by sports category? Does the gambling committee keep figures on the number of professional athletes registered on gambling sites? Secondly, from when will there be signs that a person with a certain risk profile, for example a professional player, has greater risk behaviour? How does that happen and what are the next steps? Thirdly, do you believe that professional athletes, like the professional categories mentioned above, should be excluded from gambling sites and casinos? In what cases and under what conditions? Fourthly, I would like to refer to Professor De Waegeneer of Ghent University's announcement that professional sportsmen who gamble at their own competitions do not break the law. Others say that would be a violation of the law. What interpretation do you think is correct? Can you clarify exactly what legislation is being broken in that case? If there is no legal framework, is it not a good idea to create a legal framework in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u30	Access to games rooms of class 1 and 2 gaming facilities shall be prohibited for magistrates, notaries, bailiffs and members of the police services outside the scope of their duties. The identity of those persons is included in the player exclusion system EPIS. The professional athletes do not belong to the automatically excluded players, nor to the amateur athletes. A notice of the profession is only required for the gaming facilities for which registration is required, casinos, slot rooms and online gambling. There is no record of betting in daily newspapers, as a maximum of 200 euros per day can be used. Currently, the Gaming Commission conducts a nominal investigation into the online gaming behaviour of the professional players in the Pro League. It examines whether players have wagered more than 1,000 euros in the legal betting offices and whether they have wagered on their own matches. Betting on own matches by a captain of a football team, a player or a trainer is prohibited by Article 4, § 3, of the Gaming Act. There is a risk of imprisonment of up to 5 years and a fine of up to 600 000 euros, including death sentences. If they have a suspicion of match fixing, the football organisations inform the national football hotline. The handling of those complaints or notifications is the responsibility of the federal prosecutor. Organisations such as the KBVB and the Pro League also monitor the orderly course of the football matches. Contracts concluded by professional players often contain stricter provisions on a gambling ban, which are penalised by measures ranging from fines to dismissals in the event of non-compliance. A professional who tries to circumvent the licensed betting offer by playing from abroad on an illegal website or through intermediaries shows a higher risk profile. Also, the professional player who wagers high amounts and thus becomes vulnerable to gambling debts is more prone to match fixing. A national platform on match fixing could make concrete proposals to combat match fixing and safeguard the integrity of sport and licensed bets. Article 4 (3) of the Gaming Act is clear on this. Everyone shall be prohibited from taking part in any game of chance where the person concerned may have a direct influence on the outcome of the game. The perpetrators of the infringement of the provision of Article 4 (3) shall be punished under Article 63 of the Gambling Act by a prison sentence of 6 months to 5 years and a fine of 100 euros to 100 000 euros, multiplied by the opdecimals or by one of those sentences alone.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u31	Mr. Secretary, I would like to give you another thought. It is not because someone gambles, whether or not on their own competition, that he or she is therefore immediately a match fixer. One should not always think the worst, but the risk is, of course, high and one sometimes goes a long way in that direction. A month and a half ago, I myself had purely by chance contact with the Federal Procurator of the Royal Belgian Football Association about the problem. He admitted that he has only very limited means of control, which he would like to see strengthened. Indeed, the national platform would be one of the possibilities for this, and my and my colleague Mr Döh Haese have prepared a proposal on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u32	A few weeks ago, the Chamber of the Council of Brussels had to release a person of Latvian nationality suspected of drug trafficking because of the absence of a translator. It would appear that a translator would have asked the FPS Justice to be paid for her previous benefits and that, in the absence of a satisfactory response, she would have refused to continue any cooperation at the time of the suspect's appearance before the Board. For its part, the prosecution appears to have appealed the decision. Without interfering with the prerogatives of the judiciary, I would nevertheless like to express my concern about the facts reported and, therefore, return to a subject that I had already discussed with you last January, namely the difficult situation of translators and interpreters. Minister, have you been aware of the facts and, if so, can you confirm them? Did your services find a solution in this particular case? As regards the problem of translators and interpreters more broadly, what is the current status of unpaid work? Are your services regularly exposed to refusals to cooperate because of default, as in the case mentioned? Finally, what steps have you taken to address these short-term challenges affecting the justice sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u33	Since the entry into force of new VAT rules for judicial interpreters and translators in 2014, this problem appears sporadically with translators and interpreters who are to be used ad hoc by the requesting authorities for exotic languages or for whom no sworn interpreter is known in any judicial district. Until the entry into force of the national register of translators and interpreters on 1 December 2016, the applicant authorities normally choose a competent interpreter, either from a list within their own district, or by consulting the lists of other districts if their own list does not include interpreters who know certain languages, such as Latvian and Dutch in the present case. The interpreter who is called for the first time must complete an identification form in order to be registered in the FPS electronic accounting system. In the present case, the fact that the interpreter concerned works in Belgium under an international statute did not facilitate the collection of his personal data, particularly those relating to VAT obligations. On 2 February 2016, it transmitted the identification form for inclusion in the above-mentioned data bank at the office of the Registry of the Dutch-speaking Court in Brussels. After the accounting system accepted the interpreter concerned as a provider of judicial services, the cost statements of that interpreter were introduced on 24 February 2016. From the moment they are taxed by the requesting authority, they may be paid. Sometimes an interpreter refuses for various reasons to accept the request. We usually find another one. It is only in the case of a single combination of source and target language that the problem has arisen in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u34	I hope that this is an isolated fact and that we will no longer have to ask you any more questions. Indeed, this situation is challenging for the functioning of justice because, because of the combination of these different factors, the accused person could not be properly judged. We will remain careful that this does not happen again. Minister, I encourage you to take all steps in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u35	Mr Minister, my question concerns the new wing that was recently put into use in Ypres prison. The wing was only partially put into service, because the plant, for example, the heart of security, was not put into service due to staff shortages. Also the spaces provided for the social service, mental assistance, VDAB and the like cannot be used by staff shortages. This was already discussed in committee in November. How can this situation be rectified? The new building has a capacity of 200 people, while today only about 100 prisoners are staying in Ypres prison. In order to achieve this capacity increase, cell capacity should also be maintained. That is why I have the following specific questions concerning Masterplan III and timing. Can you confirm that the expansion of cell capacity in Ypres is included in the Master Plan? If so, how many cells are added? When will the Government of the Buildings have completed its study on the various possibilities for enlargement? What's the deadline for this? Can this not be accelerated in this relatively small project, for example by removing the file from the Master Plan and submitting it separately to the Council of Ministers? Has the change round announced by you last December been restarted after the Finance Inspectorate gave the green light for the recruitment of 20 penitentiary guards? What facilities are provided for reinforcement?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u36	Mrs. Kitir is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u37	Minister, in the context of the Tris Master Plan for Prisons in Belgium, a number of new prisons are also being set up. One of these prisons would be set up in Leopoldsburg, in the camp, as it is called. Mr Minister, I would have liked to ask the following questions. Firstly, what is the current status of the acquisition of the land? Secondly, what stage are the preparations at? Thirdly, do you know whether there are currently action groups or procedures against the construction of this new prison, as we have seen in other places? If so, which one? Fourthly, when does the construction of the new prison start? Finally, when is the opening of this new prison planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u38	Mr Minister, I come back to a subject that we have already mentioned since it is the Paifve social defence institution, a medical-psychiatric centre, in a configuration similar to that in Ghent, namely the management of the institution by private partners. An extension of the facility's capacity was also announced to increase from 205 to 505. However, it had previously been discussed to set up a somewhat different project which included an improvement in the management structure of Justice/Public Health in order to improve the means at the level of care in this institution by integrating a path for the intern, as is the case in Ghent. You said in December that it was impossible to answer the question of Paifve's future in practice and that no leads were a priori rejected, neither the transformation of Paifve into a CPL nor the project presented by the management of the establishment. You also announced the establishment of a working group composed of representatives from Justice, Public Health, DG EPI of the local management of Paifve. Finally, you had tried to reassure us by saying that Paifve would not disappear and would continue to welcome internees, but also that all guarantees of continued employment would be taken. Minister, can you tell me where the negotiations are? The Masterplan Ill, and in particular, has this element of the masterplan been developed? What was decided? What fate will be reserved for the current staff who have a great deal of expertise? Is there always a question of the commitment of these contractors by the private structure? Under what working conditions? Has there already been a dialogue in this direction? As far as the statutes are concerned, is the path of the mutation on the table? If so, can these workers be reassured that they will all be welcomed into another structure? Has there already been a dialogue with them to ensure that they will maintain their quality of life (acceptable routes, etc.) and work? What about care for people with almost no prospects for reintegration. Have you planned, within your masterplan III, a francophone wing or reception structure for these long-term inmates with adapted care? Finally, what external oversight exists for private institutions of this type? How can we ensure the good living conditions of those who are interned in this type of institution? Can you assure us that in the long term health care will not have to be cared for by the interned person himself in this type of structure? How can we certify good cooperation with public social protection institutions that will continue to exist?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, I do indeed have to refer to the previous reply I gave. I will soon come up with a new modified Master Plan III, which we are currently preparing. This isn't finished yet. I need to take the necessary time to prepare this thoroughly, by the way, together with all government partners. We must wait for the approval of the Council of Ministers to know the way in which it is implemented and how it is financed. This will also determine the format of the timing and can only then be given. One of the projects proposed here and supported is the construction of a prison with 312 places in Leopoldsburg. This is indeed planned in the areas already acquired. The deed for the acquisition of land dates from October 2014. I do not know about action groups or procedures, but that is not possible at the moment either. There is also a project on the expansion of Ypres prison. I can tell you that this is being proposed and I support it. Questions to Mr Jambon, responsible for the Directorate of Buildings, should be asked about the study carried out by the Directorate of Buildings on the possibility of enlargement. Finally, a number of additional recruitments will indeed be made. Out of 20 there are four for Ypres. As far as the Paifve project is concerned, I confirm the answer I gave in December. It is also a Masterplan III project. Although it is difficult to say more at this stage, I would nevertheless like to point out that we are working closely with my colleague De Block to present together Masterplan III on internment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for the state of play and for your support for the Ypres project.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u42	The minister has given an answer that I have heard for a year and a half. I hope we're not going to get that answer back for three years! I understand that the minister is facing difficulties. We are all affected by the series of dramatic events and I understand that you have other priorities but insist on moving forward. I pissed you off on a previous question when I wanted to remain constructive. When I saw that it was announced in the press in October 2015, I was ready to send you flowers so much I was looking forward to moving forward. Later, I had to realize that it was a leak in the press. We cannot continue to tell the people on the ground in Paifve's case that we must give the means to justice and equip ourselves with tools and not manage to agree on a master plan that has been discussed since the previous legislature. We visited the courthouse and the prison: we are all concerned with this issue. You will have my full support as long as we can land quickly and realize this project that the terrain is waiting for.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u43	Mr Minister, all too often cases of sexual abuse are still classified without consequence. That often has to do with a lack of evidence. That is why forensic research is crucial, especially for the detection of perpetrators of sexual abuse. That was also the reason why we, together with a number of fellow Members of the Committee on Sexual Abuse, have now made it compulsory for parquet magistrates, if DNA material is present at the crime scene, to carry out an effective DNA analysis, unless it is justified for what reasons it is not done in a specific case. Thus, the so-called sexual aggression sets that allow to recover samples can give rise to DNA analysis in order to investigate and prosecute. According to reports in the media, there would be a number of problems regarding the ideal method of reducing such DNA profiles. It is claimed that, from now on, only one DNA profile can be analysed per sample taken. The laboratories should follow a certain order in these analyses, which, according to the laboratories, is not always in line with the most appropriate analysis. In addition, it is said that, while an analysis could be carried out automatically in the past if a preliminary analysis showed that suitable DNA material was present, it is now necessary to obtain authorisation from the magistrate. That raises a number of questions. Finally, Minister, it is said that it differs from one region to another and that it does not analyse or analyse the individual file or the evidence available, but that it does so in an arbitrary manner and that there would be no objective justification for 38% to 95% of the analyses carried out. Dixit de pers. I come to my questions. Is it true, Minister, that there can only be one profile per kit? Is it true that this should be done in a particular prescribed order? If so, which one? Is this always in line with adequate investigation and detection? If it is true that there can be only one profile, quid with gang rapes where different samples are useful and necessary to investigate and prosecute? Is it true that the labs first make a preliminary analysis and then have to ask permission from the magistrate again, even when useful material has been proven? Is it true that in half of the cases there is no analysis of the reduced sets, and that this varies from region to region, even if useful material is present? I assume that people are aware that decisions must be motivated? What steps will you take if the reported problems do exist?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u44	Mr Minister, I have asked questions about this issue before because, like Mrs Van Cauter, I am concerned about the deterioration of DNA analyses following rape. Mrs Van Cauter has already explained it in detail. I have also been contacted by some lab researchers who have told their stories about the way they work and about the problems they are experiencing. I would like to sum up a number of these problems: the limited number of DNA profiles, a fixed order of work, more red tape for the parquet as a result of the preliminary analysis carried out and the difficulties of a gang rape. In some regions less analyses are carried out than in others. A motivation for non-executing an analysis, which is, however, required by law, is not always given. Your spokesperson had it recorded in the press that the S.A.S. letter will be evaluated in the coming months. Mr. Secretary, I have some questions. Have you already consulted the laboratories on the problems and what solutions are possible? When did this consultation take place and what are its results? What changes can we expect to be made to the letter? Has the evaluation of that letter already been completed? If not, when can we expect this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u45	Mr President, Mrs Van Cauter, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, we already had the opportunity to discuss this at the committee meeting yesterday during the debate on the evaluation of emancipation. Fortunately, I had the answer to your questions at the time. The DNA analysis procedure was the subject of Directive No. 21/2013 of the College of Attorneys General of 19 December 2013. The procedure for the reduction of the sexual aggression set is then regulated in the COL 10/2005 which is indeed being updated and will be completed very soon by the College of Attorneys General. I shall come back to that in a moment. Regarding the DNA analysis procedure following the reduction of the sexual aggression set, the following applies. In accordance with the DNA Directive, the expert is not required to limit himself to a genetic profile per kit, but to a genetic profile per step in the procedure, unless otherwise stated in the claim. In particular, the expert may obtain two types of claim, either a sequential by model four of the Annex to the circular COL 21/2013 which will then follow the detailed order, or a general claim to carry out an S.A.S. analysis without additional clarifications. In that case, the expert shall carry out the analysis, taking into account elements of the police report. In particular, it will seek the presence of semen through the various steps of the SAS and establish a genetic profile according to whether traces of semen were found at the different stages of the analysis. If the claim or the report mentions a gang rape, the number of steps in the S.A.S. analysis or the analysis of the traces on the clothes will be higher. This will safeguard the chances of getting useful genetic profiles for a maximum number of perpetrators. In this particular case, the expert will request the agreement of the magistrate before the start of the investigation and will also justify the number of analyses carried out in his report. In the case of a sequential claim, the expert shall first carry out a number of preliminary tests to determine the presence of semen and, of course, no genetic analysis shall be carried out if these tests do not produce a positive result. The result is therefore dependent on whether or not semen is found without the permission of the magistrate being required for further analysis. However, the expert may also receive a petition asking only whether semen was found. In this case, the magistrate will only decide, after reading the expert report, whether or not a new claim should be made to establish a genetic profile and what exact traces should be analysed. Unfortunately, in the context of this oral question, no figures could be given to me on the number of cases where no analysis was made. These do not appear to be available by region. However, the prosecutor's magistrates are careful not to seek only a DNA analysis in files in which there are sufficient elements to identify the perpetrator and to demonstrate sexual contact between two or more persons. It is therefore a cost-effective way of dealing with this, although this must not, of course, be at the expense of proof. Finally, I would like to point out that if the offender is sentenced to rape or sexual assault of the honourable Member's dignity, the DNA procedure for convicted persons will be carried out at the stage of the execution of the decision. For example, the DNA profile can be compiled and compared with the data in the DNA database in order to clarify any other facts. With regard to the provision of information to the victim as provided for in Articles 44sexies and 90s, § 4 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the victim shall be informed of this at the end of the investigation or judicial investigation when a decision is taken not to have a DNA profile drawn up. It is important that the justification is clearly communicated to the victim. Also the circular S.A.S. COL 10/2005 draws attention to this and also provides that the Victim's Reception Service is systematically included in files which lead to a decrease in S.A.S. is decided. As far as the labs are concerned, I would first of all like to point out that it is not up to the labs to assess the results in criminal investigations. The magistrates in charge of the investigations must make the assessment concrete. In the evaluation of the application of the circular S.A.S., the recognized DNA labs and all other actors were also extensively questioned. The results of this evaluation study can be found on the website of the National Institute of Criminology and Criminalism and of the Criminal Policy Service. As regards the amendments to the circular COL 10/2005, you will understand that I cannot anticipate the adoption of the directive. Without being exhaustive, I can refer you to the following elements. Firstly, instructions are provided for a more concrete and detailed inventory of the documents of conviction. Secondly, instructions are given on the cooperation agreements which the King's Attorneys must conclude with the medical world, including to ensure that the lists of specialist doctors are regularly updated. Thirdly, the S.A.S. kits themselves are being renewed. Fourthly, the conditions for the use of S.A.S. and the progress is clarified, with reference to COL/DNA. Fifthly, reference is made to the newly established checklist for the reception of victims in hospitals. Sixthly, the text has also been adapted to the new legislation and directives and the problem of drugs facilitated sexual assaults is also explicitly addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u46	Minister, you have said a lot and spoken quickly. I have tried to listen carefully and what I have heard you say is actually not quite what was to be read in the press. I'm glad I got your clarifications. It is logical for the court to draw up the progress and determine the analyses to be carried out. If I understand correctly, there are two types of claims, one specific or one general. Several DNA profiles will be analysed specifically in the context of, for example, a group rape. You also say, contrary to what can be read in the media, that there is always an analysis when finding useful traces. Externally, the impression was given that even if useful traces were found, for reasons of process economical, budgetary reasons would be swept away. This does not appear to be the case and I am grateful for your clarification. It must be known, because the outside world is all too often given the impression that justice would close its eyes to the fight against sexual abuse. That does not appear to be the case. We'd like to support you in that fight. The justification appears to be a common case. If an analysis is not carried out, it shall be justified and justified as such. Finally, you say that, where refinement is needed, there is an adaptation of the letter in the format, which is a good thing. The ball must be played briefly and the battle must continue with the necessary resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u47	I agree with that, Minister. I hope that the refinement of the letter and the adjustments will be a positive change.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u48	Mr President, I apologise for the speed of reading. The only reason is that I want to be able to give as many answers as possible. If you don't have to translate, that's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u49	That is a vast subject, Minister, which has been brought to my attention. I think it will be of interest to German-speaking lawyers in my region. Prior to the reform of the Judicial Code by the Act of 3 August 1992, article 862 of the Judicial Code, which was repealed by article 24 of the Act of 19 October 2015, provided for the absolute nullity of a procedural act which did not comply with the Law on the Use of Languages in Judicial Matters of 15 June 1935. The reference to this Act was omitted from article 862 of the Judicial Code in its version after the Act of 3 August 1992. Currently, article 861 of the Judicial Code, as it appears after the law pot-pourri I, provides that "the judge may not declare a procedural act or punish non-compliance with a prescribed period of time if the omission or irregularity complained of is detrimental to the interests of the party invoking the exception". Article 40 of the Law on the Use of Languages in Judicial Matters of 15 June 1935 provides: "The above rules are prescribed with the penalty of nullity. It shall be pronounced ex officio by the judge." You are aware that Article 38(5) of the above-mentioned Act of 15 June 1935 reads as follows: "To any procedural act, judgment or judgment drawn up in German, but which must be served or notified in a municipality of the bilingual Region of Brussels-Capital, a French translation and a Dutch translation shall be attached." This implies that German-speaking litigants must have any act of procedure communicated to the Belgian State, to an insurance company or to a social security service headquartered in the Brussels-Capital Bilingual Region in the three national languages, whereas French-speaking or Dutch-speaking litigants must do so only in their language. Mr Minister, is the nullity regime of article 861 of the Judicial Code now applicable to the nullities provided for in the Act of 15 June 1935, so that the judge could not declare an act for breach of the rules of the Law on the use of languages in judicial matters unless the irregularity harms the interests of the party who invokes the exception?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u50	Mrs Jadin, the nullities resulting from the use of languages are governed by article 40 of the Act of 15 June 1935, which you rightly refer to. They are exempt from the nullity regime set out in Article 860 of the Judicial Code and must be raised ex officio by the judge. The question of whether the irregularity is detrimental to the interests of the party invoking the exception therefore does not arise. With regard to the double translation imposed on the German-speaking litigant who, pursuant to Article 38(4) of the above-mentioned Act, must have the judgment given served in the three languages in Brussels, it must be relativized – as everything else, moreover. On the one hand, article 38, paragraph 8, provides that: "The requirements of this article may be derogated from if the party to whom service is to be made has chosen or accepted, for the proceedings, the language in which the act, judgment or judgment is drawn up." This circumstance is quite imaginable when the dispute is between the litigant and a public authority, as in the example you mention, or even in the case of private individuals. On the other hand, paragraph 9 of the same article provides that, with regard to disputes concerning the jurisdiction of labour courts as well as in matters of law enforcement, translations are the responsibility of the Treasury. This includes social security disputes, which you also refer to.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u51	Minister, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u52	Mr Minister, the Law of 15 June 1935 on the use of languages in judicial matters provides in its article 38, paragraph 3, that "To any procedural act, judgment or judgment drawn up in Dutch or French, but which must be served or notified in the German-speaking region, a German translation shall be attached." This provision is essential for the person who lives in the German-speaking region to understand the content and possible scope of the procedural document, judgment or judgment served on him. However, article 38, paragraph 6, of the Act of 15 June 1935 provides that these provisions are not applicable to appeal in cassation. This means that while a person residing in the French- or Dutch-speaking region receives the service of an appeal in cassation and of the memorandum attached thereto in the language of the proceedings, therefore in general his language, the German-speaking person will receive the service of the brief only in French or Dutch according to the language chosen by the lawyer to the Court of Cassation who has brought the appeal. It will therefore not include the exact content of the act served on it. Mr Minister, my question on this subject is this: should we not, at the very least, provide that the statement of cassation must be translated into the language of the region in which it is to be served? Thank you, Minister, for the answers that you would like to give me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u53	Mr President, Madam, as you rightly point out in your question, section 38 of the 1935 Act generally states that procedural acts must be translated into the language of the linguistic region in which they are served or notified. Paragraph 6 of the same article provides for an exception in respect of the appeal in cassation. This exception, however, is not limited to the German-speaking region and has a very general scope. For example, if a Namibian plaintiff assigns an Antwerp defendant to Antwerp, the appeal on cassation of the Antwerp defendant will, under paragraph 6, be drawn up exclusively in Dutch and served in that language on the Namurian plaintiff. Conversely, if an Antwerp plaintiff assigns a Namur defendant to Namur, the appeal in cassation, if any, of the Namur defendant will be drafted exclusively in French and no translation will accompany its service in Antwerp. In the same way, when an appeal in cassation is drawn up in the German language, it will be served in that language without being accompanied by a translation, whatever the linguistic region in which it is served. The exploit of meaning on the other hand will indeed have to be translated. I was not born in 1935, so don't blame me. I can't help it. The exception provided for in article 38, paragraph 6, of the Law on the Use of Languages was introduced by a law of 14 August 1947. It appears from the explanatory memorandum of that law and from the report of the Justice Committee at the time that the purpose of this amendment was to remedy the various difficulties connected with a change of domicile of one of the parties, thus obliging the lawyer of the Court of Cassation to have his appeal translated into urgent action. However, this appeal, which contains the applicant's pleas and conclusions in cassation, is often voluminous. In accordance with Article 1080 of the Judicial Code, the appeal contains the applicant's pleas in cassation, its findings and an indication of the legal provisions the violation of which is invoked. In the words of the Justice Committee, the appeal is in fact equivalent to a finding forming part of the written procedure which is exchanged before the Court of Cassation of a lawyer for the information of that Court and which, therefore, in accordance with the principles, must be drawn up only in the language of the proceedings used. It is sufficient that, in order to inform the defendant, the exercise of service of the appeal in cassation satisfies the requirements of the Act of 15 June 1935. The requirement for a translation could lead to non-compliance with the time limits for cassation and thus constitute an obstacle to the right of access to the courts. Therefore, the appeal, like the first instance and appeal findings, as well as the reply and possible reply briefs before the Court of Cassation, is not translated.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u54	Minister, I think I have understood the content of your answer. I am not as good a lawyer as many of my colleagues here in the Justice Committee, but I think I understand that we are still on the basis of the 1935 law with the data on the meaning of the original language of the appeal. It can be considered to be perhaps a somewhat outdated provision depending on its age. Either we work on the meaning, or we give the possibility to appeal in the German language in cassation. I do not consider it normal, Minister, that the cassation appeal based solely on section 38 of the 1935 Act, paragraph 6, does not allow this. That's not fair. It does not allow to give right or satisfaction to a whole part of our population, which is still recognized as such, namely the one speaking German. Judicial changes are therefore required, either with regard to service of documents or with regard to the possibility of appeal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u55	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u56	In short, you advise me to table a bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u57	Question No 9912 by Mr Olivier Maingain is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u58	Since the announcement of the plan to streamline their work, workers in the psychosocial services in prison have been concerned. The plan announced in your "pot-pourri IV" would have the effect of greatly reducing the involvement of social workers (social workers and psychologists) in their mission of expertise with prisoners, at the risk of undermining the security of society. Psychosocial services play an indispensable role in the Belgian penal and penitentiary system, in particular in assessing the danger of prisoners and in assessing the manner in which sentences are carried out (exit permits, prison leave, electronic surveillance, trial release, parole, etc.).). It is the social workers and psychologists who work in prison to meet with prisoners for months or even years to assess their psychological functioning, their reintegration project and thus also the risk of recidivism that they may represent. This work is carried out on the basis of a methodology and a code of ethics specific to each function which allows the best possible understanding of the situation of each inmate and its evolution. It is on the basis of the information gathered by these services that the prison directors, the enforcement courts, the social defence commissions and the Directorate of Detention Management formulate their opinions and make their decisions on the applications of the convicted and internees. Minister, what are the broad outlines of this announced rationalization of SPS services? What is the objective pursued? Will these measures be included in the "pot-pourri IV"? What is the timing envisaged for it (i.e. government passage, Council of State, tabling in the House)?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u59	First of all, it should be pointed out that the plan for rationalizing psychosocial services does not result in a significant reduction in the involvement of social workers in their work of expertise with inmates. The aim of the rationalization exercise carried out in collaboration with the field teams is to strike an appropriate balance between the tasks of the psychosocial service. Thus, each inmate will be assessed according to their profile. In-depth expertise will only be carried out in cases where it is necessary. Studies have also shown that a high level of analysis may be contraindicated in some cases. The aim, of course, is to reduce the risk of recidivism. It was also observed that the very frequent use of in-depth evaluation, in which there was little room for support, was a source of tension among prisoners and thus within prisons. It was therefore important to create the conditions for the inmate to feel heard in the psychosocial assessment. The support and evaluation of the social reintegration plan through the construction of a relationship between the psychosocial worker and the inmate are aspects of the primary aspects with the aim of reducing the risk of recidivism. The methodology governing the work of the psychosocial service remains unchanged. The emphasis is on the professionalisation of work practices. We have modernized the service instructions, which were almost ten years old, the aim is to improve the service provided to the various actors in the decision-making process, including the prison directorates, the direction and management of detention, and the court for the enforcement of sentences. Finally, it should be noted that measures related to this rationalization are not included in potpourri IV. They were initiated independently.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for all these elements in a limited period of time. You have accelerated the tempo of the answers! I am pleased to note that rationalization does not mean downsizing or downsizing of the services referred to here. It's already a very interesting piece of information. For the rest, I will come back with other questions as the plan is presented, and that will give us an opportunity to discuss it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u61	Mr President, Minister, on January 6, I asked you about the issue of understaffed personnel at the prison in Tournai. In your answer, you stated that in January 2016, there was a deficit of 13 full-time equivalents. Let me remind you here, minister, that this figure is unwelcome when we know that the prison is overcrowded by more than 40 prisoners. What was more worrying and still worrying today is your government's announcement of the introduction of your rationalization plan, which provides for 10% savings on the budget of civil servants. In your reply, you stated that indeed a rationalization working group was set up in early 2015 with the trade union organisations. The aim of this group is – I quote you – "to allow prisons to continue to work properly despite the structural decrease in staff". Finally, you referred to the fact that the first theoretical rationalization exercises were carried out and that, with regard to the establishment of Tournai, the visit and exercise were planned for the end of February 2016. Minister, how was the exercise carried out by your services at the prison in Tournai? How many full-time equivalents do you plan to maintain?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u62	Mr Delannois, on the basis of a complete documentation provided by the prison, the group of experts appointed by the Directorate-General of Prisons carried out a pre-analysis. This group then carried out a full visit to the prison on 23 February 2016, with the aim of analysing the occupation of posts. In consultation with management and prison assistants, taking into account the findings made during the visit, a series of adaptations were made to the pre-analysis. A first result was thus obtained. On 24 February 2016, this result was presented to the local working group, composed of field staff and union delegates. The expert group was able to hear some requests that appeared to be well-founded. From these negotiations emerged the final proposal of the expert group of 140.38 full-time equivalents on an initial framework of 150, i.e. a savings of 6.41%. As a reminder, what is required of DG PPE is a budget saving of 10% in staff costs. The exercise at Tournai Prison is far from achieving this goal, but the specific infrastructure of the prison and the need to improve technical facilities have been taken into account. It should be noted that at this stage, the exercises carried out by the group of experts are theoretical exercises that are brought back to negotiations in the sector committee once they have been carried out in all prisons.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u63	Minister, thank you for your answer. I will analyze it, because it is true that you respond quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u64	Minister, I asked you at the same committee on 27 May 2015 about my concern that a new prison in Leuze would develop without sufficient staff to manage it properly. You told me at the time that when the prison was fully completed and operational, the staff hired would be 10 per cent lower than the advertised (i.e. 220 full-time equivalents minus 10 per cent). This is due to austerity measures taken by your government aimed at achieving a series of savings in different public services. From now on, the prison is completely filled and I find that the number of FTEs equals 190 whereas it should have been 198 if my calculation is correct. Mr Minister, I am afraid that with this staggering lack of staff, you may have failed the whole prison-related project. The latter aims at a better future reintegration of prisoners. Indeed, activities within the prison are supposed to take place there. I am talking in particular about workshops, training rooms, etc. This project, which was intended to be innovative and which had to be put in place when the prison was filled, could be undermined if things were to remain as they were. Minister, I have two questions for you. What activities related to the reintegration of prisoners will be maintained given the shortage of thirty FTEs? Do you not find it a waste of having invested so much in a prison that offers many activities, whereas in the end you do not hire enough staff to conduct them properly?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u65	Mr Delannois, as you know, all of our FPS must participate in the effort of budgetary savings decided by our government. As far as the Prisons Directorate is concerned, the target is to achieve 10% savings in staff costs by the end of the current legislature. At the end of 2015, after negotiations with representative trade union organisations in DG PPE, it was decided to assess the feasible economy in prisons. A group of experts has been set up, composed of members of DG PPE and field experts who, on the basis of a model validated during the sectoral committee negotiations, carry out an exercise called "rationalisation" in each institution. This exercise is not only intended to quantify the savings that can be achieved, but also to revisit the work processes in order to work differently by simplifying or modifying procedures, for example, or by modifying the organization. As far as Leuze prison is concerned, the group of experts visited the site on 4 and 5 February 2016. The result is 190.39 full-time equivalents, according to an initial frame of 220, however, knowing that the D building originally planned to accommodate the twelve prisoners in limited detention is not in operation. When this neighbourhood opens, the new need for management staff will be assessed according to the objective assigned to it. The defined figure is therefore very close to the 10 % linear. I would point out that the activities related to the reintegration of prisoners are within the competence of the French Community and are not affected by the rationalization imposed on DG PPE. The second objective of the exercise is to maintain as wide a detention regime as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u66	Minister, I hope that the various rationalization measures in prisons will not have certain consequences, especially some escapes, since Leuze has recently experienced an escape. Is this due to a lack of staff? I don't know. I hope that this is not in any case a direct consequence of this policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u67	Mr President, Minister, for a long time there have been several criminal and coercive measures for the non-release of children, but in practice these measures are often not pronounced, little or not controlled, or little or not implemented. The only possibility in case of non-compliance with a right of access is to go to court again, but this way, of course, the circle remains round. Nor is it the intention of the system to allow the punished to go unpunished. In addition, this means a lot more work before the courts once again if a case has to be brought. Since 1 December 2015, parental exclusion has been catalogued as partner violence. For disowned parents, this must be a hopeful signal, but this measure is only useful or useful if partner violence is effectively prosecuted. I have a few brief questions. Can you tell me how many complaints have been filed in the last five years under the heading of partner violence? How many of these complaints have been prosecuted? How many of these led to an effective conviction? Is it possible to receive the figures by judicial district? In principle, this question could be put in writing, but in the meantime you have the opportunity to answer me orally.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u68	Mr President, as you know, Mrs Uyttersprot, in the context of oral parliamentary questions, I find it difficult to request specific and statistical analyses from the support service of the College of Attorneys General. As regards partner violence figures, an analysis of the parquet statistics was developed for 2011, 2012 and 2013 in the framework of the work and reporting to the United Nations Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women. I'll keep this number analysis at your disposal, dating back to 2014. The updated circular COL4/2006 at the end of last year also defines parental deprivation as a form of intra-family partner violence, as you said, denying the child the right to develop a normal emotional relationship with either parent. This new directive may have an impact on criminal law policy and public prosecutors' figures, but this cannot be established at this stage. Since parental remission does not constitute a specific, separate criminal offence and is not included as such in the judicial qualification, it is not possible to extract the cases of parental deprivation from the given partner violence figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u69	Minister, it seems quite obvious to me that it is not possible at this time to give figures separately for parental deprivation, as the measure has only been introduced since 1 December 2015. I repeat that cataloguing as partner violence will, of course, only be effective if partner violence effectively leads to a conviction. I will look at these figures and draw the necessary conclusions from them. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u70	Minister, the figures for 2014 for prison overcrowding in Belgium were unanimous: our prisons had 129 prisoners per 100 places available, compared to only 99 for the Union as a whole. The figures for February 2016 still show the same observation, but show a significant decrease in prison overcrowding. From 129 inmates for 100 places available, we go up to 118. The European average, on the other hand, falls by only 5 points. Have your services identified the instruments and mechanisms that led to this 11-point decrease from 2014 to 2016? If so, what are they? In the future, can we hope to move towards a balance in Belgium, i.e. 100 prisoners per 100 places available, or to the European average? If so, what are the clues that would allow you to say so?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u71	Mr President, Minister, every year there is the Council of Europe report on European prisons. That report shows that this is not a new fact that Belgian prisons are among the most overcrowded. Thirteen out of 50 countries are dealing with overpopulation, but we are on part of the scoreboard that you probably do not like as much as I do. Hungary is the worst student of the class with 142 prisoners in 100 places. The second place of the silver cup is usually good, but in this case otherwise, however, Belgium takes 129 prisoners in 100 places. The European average is 91.7 prisoners in 100 places. So with that average, there's room left. The report also notes that many prisoners of foreign origin are locked in our prisons. We already knew that, but it is 40,6%, while the European average is only 21,7%. The good news is that these are 2014 figures and that there is a positive evolution. In 2013 we had 134 prisoners in 100 places. The bad news is that we find that the number of suicides is also very high. With 11 suicides in 10 000 prisoners, this figure is considerably higher than the European average of 7.6 suicides. That is why I have the following questions. Since the report is based on older figures from 2014, while we are already in 2016, and the government, as we know, is also making significant efforts to eliminate the overpopulation, demand is next. What is the overpopulation in our prisons today? What about your prognosis? How do you see the overpopulation in the coming years? What is the percentage of prisoners of foreign origin currently in our prisons? What steps will you take or are you already taking to increase the trend towards the European average? How is it that the number of suicides in Belgian prisons is so much higher than in the rest of Europe? What policy will we pursue in this respect to reduce this number of suicides within the prison walls? Minister, what is the percentage of people in remand on the total number of inmates? Are comparisons with other European countries available there too? If so, how does Belgium score in this respect compared to those countries? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u72	The two of you have noted that Belgian prisons are still suffering from a considerable, albeit reduced, overpopulation. Doing something about that is a priority for me. Already in the March 2015 Justice Plan, I announced that I would like to focus on a reduction in the number of detainees, so that this gradually comes into line with the number of places. The number of places currently varies around 10 000, and with the closure of Tilburg 500 more cells will disappear by the end of this year. The figures of the Council of Europe date from 2014. The number of detainees has decreased since then. As of 12 April 2016, there were 11,124 inmates for 9,953 places. As a result, the overpopulation is currently 11.5 per cent. The decline in the last 18 months has to do with the fact that more and more prisoners can be placed in institutions outside the prison. A more effective and rapid repatriation of convicted persons without the right of residence also leads to a decline in the prison population. In order to further address overcrowding, I also want to rely on rationalizing the use of pre-trial detention. The percentage of persons in pre-trial detention as at 14 March 2016 was 34.9%. This is significantly more than, for example, in France (21%), Germany (17%) or Great Britain (15%). In no case can the detention be regarded as a performance of or an advance on the prison sentence for the sentence. In view of the serious impact of the measure on the personal freedom of the person concerned, the legislator was invented as an exception to limit it to situations where public security, the further conduct of the investigation and the final trial of the suspect would be compromised by the release. Although certain criteria for pre-trial detention are already quite restrictive in delivering an arrest warrant, in the caselaw they have never led to the intended reduction in their application. I therefore want to link the maximum duration of remand, to be held in prison, to the seriousness of the crime of which someone is suspected. In the case of minor crimes, punishable by penalties of up to three years' duration, the pre-trial detention should be carried out under electronic supervision, including GPS control. Certain exceptions, such as intra-family violence or the lack of a place of residence, will be foreseen. For offences on which the legislator imposed a penalty of no more than five years, the duration of the pre-trial detention will in principle be limited to about four months, calculated in the number of appearances before the council chamber. For offences with penalties above five years of age, the detention will always be a classic detention, but after a certain period a special justification from the judge will be required. I intend to submit my proposals in the short term. A moderate restriction on pre-trial detention could almost solve the overpopulation risk. It would be a historic breakthrough in penitentiary policy. I want to realize it together with this committee. Mrs. De Wit, you also asked me a question about suicide prevention in prisons. This is a complex issue involving various bodies, including the Communities in the context of providing assistance and services to individuals. At Justice level, the basic training of the penitentiary staff includes a separate module on dealing with suicide and suicide prevention. Prison staff therefore receive specific training, consisting of 11 hours to detect and report suicidal tendencies and to respond appropriately to suicide or attempted suicide. If a prison officer finds suicidal behaviour, he may immediately refer the prisoner to the competent authority. Penitentiary staff can therefore play an important preventive role and special attention is paid to this through basic training. In addition, there is intense cooperation between prison services and the services of the Communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u73	Mr President, Minister, thank you very much for your very detailed answer. I think you are making a good diagnosis of the origins of prison overcrowding, in particular by focusing on the fact that, compared to other countries in Europe, our policy of pre-trial detention is more severe. I take note of the measures envisaged to reduce this overcrowding. I will continue to follow this file very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u74	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your prompt reply. I may have missed something in your TGV response, but did you give the figures on the foreign inmates? If so, I shall read it out in the report. With regard to suicide, have you said what one is going to do about it and what the policy is, but has there been any research into the reasons? Is there any evidence as to why the number is higher, what are the reasons for this? That is always interesting, because if one wants to prevent it, it is better to know what it is, so that one can remedy it. Finally, you refer to potpourri IV or V in connection with the execution and resolution of pre-trial detention through electronic surveillance. We shall have that debate. I know what your intentions are in this respect, but we also know how ET is going today. We must ensure that the measure to empty the cells, such as the tape or ET, does not become a useless measure or an empty measure. We must be very vigilant about this, together with the regions that have the authority to do so, otherwise we will not solve anything. Preliminary detention is still about the security of society. So we have to see that there is some control on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u75	Minister, according to recent figures from mobility minister Jacqueline Galant, quoted in several newspapers, 5 045 drivers were caught under the influence of drugs behind the wheel in 2014. That is a rather impressive increase of no less than 51% compared to the year before. Of course, this also has to do with the way in which checks are carried out, with more large-scale checks in Flanders on driving under the influence of narcotics. Alcohol and drugs are still the main causes of road accidents. Of course, it is important that the various authorities make every effort to combat the use of narcotic drugs in traffic effectively. Drug control is carried out in three steps: a standardised checklist, a saliva test and then a saliva analysis or blood sample. The saliva test in which one can easily check whether drivers are actually under the influence of ecstasy, cannabis, heroin or cocaine has been used since 2010. However, six years after the introduction of this simple and efficient method, it should be noted that police areas still have too few saliva tests to be able to control enough. At the end of 2015, two major police zones, Antwerp and Hasselt, already made the alarm. In the end, only a fraction of the tests ordered were delivered. The FPS Justice announced that the budget for the saliva testing in 2015 will increase from 150 000 euros to 175 000 euros. I have a clear question here, a cry from the grounds. As mayor of a police zone of the fifth city of Flanders, I have only 15 tests left, which places me at an invaluable security risk. That is why I have a number of questions for you, Minister. Can you confirm whether the planned budget is sufficient or not this time? If not, what is your intention to increase the budget for the saliva tests in the coming years? In the past, some police zones reported ordering problems. In your own directive you are talking about a delivery period of seven days. That seems to be several months in practice. Do you agree that the saliva tests are a priority tool for our police officers in carrying out traffic checks and should therefore be sufficiently available? Will police areas which have bought the saliva tests with their own budgetary resources be able to count on financial intervention from the federal government in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u76	I can confirm that the appropriations for ordering the necessary saliva tests have been increased over the last few years. For 2016, the estimated credit for the purchase of saliva tests by the police was set at EUR 180 000. In 2015, that was 175 000 euros. This appropriation is intended to cover the expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff of the European Parliament and of the Council in accordance with Article 21 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. Unfortunately, there is no prior communication of the police zones on the actions planned for the current year. Moreover, the appropriation reserved for such purchases is part of the appropriations for expenditure on legal expenses. For 2016, a linear reduction has also been applied to the registered credit for court fees in criminal matters, as in the years before. In 2015, 14 805 tests were ordered. There were two consecutive contracts in 2015 for a total of 185 692.78 euros. Should it prove for 2016 that the foreseen appropriation of EUR 180 000 cannot be sufficient to meet the actions undertaken by the different police areas, additional resources will be sought within the limits of the available appropriations for judicial costs in criminal matters. With regard to individual ordering problems, which certain police areas mentioned, I can confirm that my administration continues to do everything possible to respond as quickly as possible to requests from police areas, taking into account a balanced distribution of available resources among mass requests. The orders for 2016 are now in progress. I agree that the saliva test is an important tool in carrying out traffic checks. The use of the saliva test in the traffic control is only carried out in the second instance after the identification of external signs of possible use of psychotropic substances and the form has been completed by the police officer. In this sense, it would be extremely interesting if the police authorities could provide figures on the number of controlled drivers and the number of saliva tests used in these checks. In this way, I can make the availability of saliva tests even more consistent with the effective needs of the police forces.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u77	Thank you very much for your reply, Minister. It shows great goodwill and I appreciate that, but this is a very pressing problem. You are slightly pushing the problem by saying that police zones must report to you how much is being controlled. In my question, I have already done so with regard to the Aalst police zone. I can also request it from the other areas, but I believe that a greater budgetary effort will be needed here. Above all, we must ensure that there is no continuity on the ground. We also need those tests when an injury accident occurs. They will then form part of the mandatory procedure to obtain a proper and efficient report. Thank you for your efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u78	Minister, I had originally tabled this matter for the attention of the Minister of Foreign Affairs who referred me to you. On Wednesday, 20 January 2016, Belgium passed its universal periodic review before the UN Human Rights Council. Since the last review in 2011, Belgium has made many progress. Despite this fact, recommendations have been made to Belgium by several countries, including Ukraine, Denmark, the United Kingdom and France. The first recommendation relates to the establishment of an independent national human rights mechanism. The second recommendation concerns the ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture. These two recommendations were made against Belgium because our country has not implemented its commitments made during the penultimate universal periodic review. Minister, can you tell me what is happening with the creation of the independent national human rights mechanism? Will it be implemented soon? Finally, can you also tell me why Belgium has not yet ratified the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture? Will it be ratified in the coming weeks?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u79	With regard to the establishment of an independent national human rights mechanism, I refer to my answer given in the Committee on Justice on 3 February 2016 to the questions raised by Mr Willy Demeyer and Mrs Véronique Caprasse. The case concerning the ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture (OPCAT) is directly related to the objective of establishing an independent national human rights mechanism. I have explained to the Committee on Justice how this challenge will be met and I therefore refer to my reply to this committee on 6 May and 8 July 2015. In the meantime, and in consultation with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, I have instructed my administration to prepare a draft bill of consent in order to be able to ratify OPCAT as soon as possible, although at this stage there are still some unknowns about how our country will organize the competent national control mechanism(s) for places where persons are deprived of their liberty such as closed centres for foreigners and psychiatric hospitals. Our goal is to introduce a bill of consent as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u80	I thank the minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u81	Mr Minister, the European Commission's initiative to combat terrorism and, in particular, the action plan against illegal arms trafficking, as well as the provisions for better control of civilian weapons – a standardised neutralisation procedure and harmonisation in the areas of marking and traceability of weapons – is very commendable. However, it is regrettable that many people believe that it is legally held weapons that fuel the illegal market. The news shows us every day the inaccuracy of this opinion, since the weapons used were not conventional, but weapons of war. At the announcement of the European Commission's draft text, we have the right to say that certain measures will be problematic for the hunting sector. Let us take, for example, the transformation into category A of semi-automatic civilian weapons resembling automatic weapons. The term "resemblant" is far too vague. A more precise definition would make it possible to limit the measure to weapons which the European legislator claims to be aimed at, i.e. "kalashnikov" type weapons firing in semi-automatic form. This definition seems inadequate. Minister, the outright implementation of the European Commission's new firearms projects could cause many harm to the legal holders of firearms, including hunters. What is your analysis of these various elements? Is consultation with Members of the European Parliament envisaged in order to take these various comments into account? What is our country's position on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u82	Mr Clarinval, Belgium believes that strengthened legislation on firearms is a good thing. Thus, while regretting that no further action has been taken, we supported the recent EU rules on minimum criteria for the deactivation of firearms. Belgium also supports the principle of a revision of the existing Firearms Directive. Some aspects of the Commission's proposal are very positive, particularly with regard to the prohibition of Internet sales. Other aspects are lacking, in particular the supervision of so-called alarm weapons which, with insufficient rules in some European countries, can be transformed into lethal weapons. The point you mention about semi-automatic weapons is one of the most discussed. It was discussed at the JHA Council on 10 March 2016. I can tell you that the criteria set out in the European Commission's proposal are rejected by the Council, because they cannot be applied. In order to avoid any misunderstanding, I would also point out that the idea of a general ban on semi-automatic weapons is not on the agenda. I can reassure you that this issue is being closely monitored by the government and technical experts. I am fully aware that an over-prohibition would have the unintended effect of increasing the number of weapons tilting towards the illegal circuit, which would be counterproductive. The question now is whether it is possible to find objective criteria for distinguishing between semi-automatic weapons that are too dangerous to still be allowed as civilian weapons and those that must be able to be used, for example, for hunting or sport shooting. The Belgian position is that it is not yet possible to resolve this issue and that further analysis is needed in the technical working group in which Belgium is very active, with a view to finding the right balance. Of course, there is no obstacle to the Belgian Members of the European Parliament being briefed on these positions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u83	Minister, thank you for your very clear answer. I note that you are very sensitive to this issue and that you are attentive to the demands made by the hunters. Indeed, it would be unfortunate if too restrictive legislation were counterproductive and, ultimately, turned into the illegal circuit of weapons that were originally used for sports or cynegetic purposes. The best is sometimes the enemy of good. Thank you for your interest in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u84	Mr President, Minister, drugs and prison are a complex issue. Various studies show that one in three inmates in prisons used or used drugs. Prison is an important gateway to the world of drug addiction. Not only do we not cure them in prison, but we are sometimes affected for the first time. It is also true that drug addiction is an important way into the prison world. It is therefore very important to support initiatives in this area, focusing on care for dependent users and reintegration projects. The Fedido Wallonne is a promoter of the "Point de Contact en prison - Step By Step" project funded by the SPF Justice through a call for tenders until September 2016. This project aims to ensure continuity of care specifically for drug-using prisoners. Since the end of 2015, stakeholders have been trying, with the help of different actors in the justice system, to obtain, in an official way, precise information on the renewal of this project. At present, the few elements collected come from their Flemish counterparts. The latter would be renewed until the end of December 2016, with funding until February 2016, while a new tender procedure will be relaunched for the next five years across the country. In this context, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Will the Walloon project also be extended until the end of December 2016 and when will the promoter be informed? Four workers are already on notice. The new public procurement procedure introduces a new specification. How will this specification be developed, with what intentions, bearing in mind that an evaluation of the current project, led by Belspo, is still under way? Mr Minister, it would be harmful for the Walloon Fedido to be unable to participate in this call for tenders. In fact, over the past five years, the quantitative and qualitative reports of the project highlight the extent of the work done to meet the demands, but also how the relevant responses are gradually being developed thanks to the work of networking and articulation between the actors of the justice system and the Walloon sector specialized in the field of insurance. The risks of loss of expertise and professional trust are therefore real. I wanted to draw your attention to these elements and thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u85	Mr President, Minister, on the same subject, our objective must be that people leaving prison have every opportunity to reintegrate. Being a victim of drug addiction, often harsh, is really problematic. That is why we must be able to carry out preventive and accompaniment work in cases where people are drugged in our prisons. This is the work that is being done, as my colleague, the Step by Step association, initiated by the Walloon Federation of Drug Addiction Institutions and based in Namur, which accompanies several hundred drug-addicted prisoners in prisons in the south of the country. It's an indispensable job. In the absence of clear responses from the FPS Justice, concern has resulted in the provision of precautionary notice to workers. This does not make it possible to work optimally and leaves doubt about the future, beyond September 2016, of this essential project. It appears that a specification and an evaluation are being carried out. Workers and promoters of this project should be reassured quickly about their future. The timetable is problematic since the evaluation is due to be completed in September, at the very moment when the provisional notice and the famous convention end. It would have been useful to carry out the evaluation upstream. Minister, do you confirm this information? Do you confirm that the assessment is consistent with the time when the agreement must be renewed (or not)? Who is responsible for this evaluation? On the basis of the elements available to you, do you rather have a positive appreciation of the work of the Step by Step association? That would be a signal already. According to what timetable do you intend to decide on continued support for this association and project? What is the overall budget for the support of drug-addicted prisoners? Do you intend to change this policy under this legislature? If so, how? It is understood that we believe that these projects are to be financed as a matter of priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u86	Mr Demeyer, Mr Gilkinet, the central point of contact for guidance and support in Wallonia, a mechanism to encourage and facilitate access to specialized insurance services for applicants, was allocated to the Walloon Fedido at the end of 2011 for a period of five years, until September 2016. The previous year, the organisation of central contact points in Flanders prisons had been attributed to the Vlaamse Vereniging van Behandelingscentra Verslaafdenzorg (VVBV), also for a period of five years. This contract expired at the end of February 2016. For Flanders, a file was introduced in order to be able to enter into a short-term public contract, in order to be able to cover the period until the end of 2016. The Finance Inspector has given a negative opinion and as a result the extension of the contract has not yet been concluded. As regards the Walloon and Brussels project, such a provisional extension until the end of 2016 is not yet on the agenda. We are waiting for the outcome of the interim coverage procedure for Flanders. In any event, the aim remains to initiate a new tender procedure for both Flanders and Wallonia after 2016. In drafting this new specification, however, it seems desirable to have the results of the scientific evaluation Process and Outcome Study of Prison-based Registration (PROSPER) still under way. It will take until the end of 2016 before it is completed, allowing the information to be incorporated into a new specification. In addition, the Inspector of Finance also made important remarks in his opinion regarding the federal jurisdiction over the organization of such central contact points (CCPs) in prisons. More specifically, the Inspectorate of Finance has asked whether the activities of CCPs should not be considered as social assistance for prisoners for their social reintegration, a competence already transferred to the Communities by the Special Act of 8 August 1980, Article 5, § 1, paragraph II, 7°, of the Special Act on Institutional Reforms, or as health care for detainees, which for the time being fall within the federal jurisdiction of the Court of Justice. It goes without saying that we must first clarify this question of competence. A legal analysis of the question of jurisdiction was requested to that effect. In the coming months, we will try to organise a consultation with the Communities and the FPS Public Health on this point. The ongoing evaluation will also be useful in this regard. The market has not yet been formally launched and, at this stage, we cannot guarantee that the current association will win it. I hope that business continuity will be guaranteed in the meantime. Today, the annual budget for these policies is EUR 655 410.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u87	I thank the minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u88	The calendar is unfortunate. Some ongoing projects are not yet evaluated and there is a real doubt as to whether these essential actions will continue in the second half of 2016. The whole problem would be a negative report from the Finance Inspectorate, which questions federal jurisdiction over this essential service. I link this to a logic of underutilization of federal budgets. Clear instructions have been given by previous Budget Ministers to ensure that each expenditure is truly useful. In this case, these are modest budgets related to human health issues. These are essential in view of the suffering caused by the care of the persons concerned. Let us also raise public security issues, in the short term, within prisons, but also after they have been released. In this respect, a blind linear logic of fiscal austerity aimed at making savings does not generate it, because much more costly problems arise. In addition, as Minister of Justice, you are responsible for the climate in our prisons, for the fact that people incarcerated are better than they were when they entered prison. You're doing the opposite because of this kind of Kafkaian situation! I am angry at the response you have given me, given the dramatic situations experienced by the people in need, as well as, to a lesser extent, by the workers concerned. As part of your powers and as far as possible, I urge you to speed up the resolution of this problem by holding meetings with the Communities so that there is no breakdown in the services provided to the persons concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u89	I want to make it clear that I am not happy with the minister's answer, but I thank him for transmitting it to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u90	It is rare for a Minister of Justice to make people happy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u91	That's what we'd like!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u92	Since you say it's unfair...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u93	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u94	What did you say?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u95	I said I was grateful for the injunction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u96	I realized it was unfair. Indeed, it is a situation resulting from a budgetary policy of which you are only one link, but you have a responsibility and that is why there was an injunction to try to find a solution. I will come back to you to ask you to speed up the processing of this case and find a good way out of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u97	Mr President, I do not often come to this committee, but I do when there is something to do with a social impact, for which the Minister is responsible. Minister, I recently had contact with the sheltered workshop sector. This showed that in the region where a prison is located there is a competition between the sheltered workshops and the prisons. Similar work has been done in prisons. Competition is not bad in itself, but it is now clear that prison prices are far below the market prices of sheltered workshops. Account managers have even been appointed to the prisons to collect work, which, of course, undermines the work of the sheltered workshops. Are you aware of this problem? This hasn't been going on that long. What is your opinion on this? Perhaps you know the regions where this problem mainly arises? I am particularly interested in how we can do something about this, so that it does not become a real competition between these institutions, both of which are trying to provide employment for their target group with noble objectives. How can we organise this more fairly so that they do not continue to compete? What do you intend to do about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u98	Mr Vercamer, it is useful to mention that prison work is based on the basic law, and that the rule of prison work has a statutory mission and operates according to royal decrees. The work offered in prisons has its own specific character and is organised by and under the law. There is therefore no competition as such, since this is a separate activity within the penitentiary regime. The basic idea is that the employment of prisoners is an essential part of a useful, constructive and forward-looking penitentiary regime. An inmate who works, can acquire skills, is less aggressive, creates a certain discipline and is better armed when he leaves prison. It's a win-win operation for the inmate, prison and society. The aim is therefore to provide more and more prisoners with work. It is well known that there is unfortunately too little work in prison. The Directorate of Prison Labour is therefore committed to finding more entrepreneurs who can offer work to more prisoners. The commercial approach to the dossiers is an integral part of the new strategy. Nevertheless, it is important to point out that the Directorate of Prison Labour takes the utmost account of the sheltered workshops when establishing business relations with entrepreneurs. For example, they try to avoid approaching customers who have relations with the sheltered workshops. Even though the Regie should not compromise its own assignments, it does not attempt to undermine the activities of the sheltered workshops. A convention between all parties was signed in the past. However, it was challenged and destroyed. Nevertheless, the Direction of Prison Labour continues to work according to these principles. We spoke about this to the sheltered workshops and recently asked them to contact us again in order to avoid possible problems and misunderstandings. By the way, both systems are difficult to compare. Thanks to prison work, an attractive price is possible, but it does not only offer benefits. In fact, prison work also suffers from a negative image of the prison and from restrictions, such as strikes by the staff and the difficult accessibility of the establishment. I am therefore convinced that both sheltered workshops and prisons have a place and a role to play in social employment. So they can function alongside each other and not against each other. I'm sure of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u99	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You say that the sheltered workshops and prison work can exist side by side, but I would like to call on the sheltered workshops and the organisers of employment to sit around the table in prisons, perhaps to make arrangements after all. Otherwise, I think they're gonna keep competing to death.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u100	I said exactly that we made such an appointment in the past, but it was destroyed. That's why we're gonna sit around the table again, but I can't make any more destroyable appointments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u101	Minister, a little over a year ago, former Member of Parliament and Minister Serge Kubla was charged and then placed under arrest for "corruption of a person who performs a public function in a foreign state" by the Brussels courts. The former Walloon minister is suspected of being involved in a bribe case in the Republic of Congo. According to information published both in the newspaper La Dernière Heure and in the newspapers of the group Sud Presse, however, it appears that the investigation is encountering the impossibility for investigators to obtain the possibility of a rogatory commission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. I quote from the press article: "Belgian justice would indeed have asked the Congo for a rogatory commission to go there as part of the investigation in the Kubla case. But at this stage, no response has yet come from Africa." The newspaper Sud Presse, for its part, is surprised by the division of the file between its Belgian (Duferco) and Congolese sections. It is two different investigating judges who are responsible for studying these different elements. Minister, do you confirm these elements? Has a request for a rogatory commission been filed by the Belgian courts with respect to the Democratic Republic of the Congo concerning this case? What justified this request? When was it introduced? What was the response received? In general, what are the DRC's response times in relation to such requests? What are you going to do to get this file unblocked? Have you asked your colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, to seek his cooperation and that of Belgian diplomacy to unblock this issue? What was the response received? What justifies the division of this case into two parts and the assignment of it to two different investigating judges?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u102	Mr Gilkinet, the federal prosecutor tells me that two cases have been opened. The first follows the disappearance of Mr. Stephan De Witte in the Congo; he is opened under the jurisdiction (...) granted to the Belgian judicial authorities under article 12 of the preliminary title of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the facts on the basis of the available information being currently described as murder in question as unknown. The first duties of investigation in this case revealed indications of corruption by a foreign official, who caused the opening of another file - distinct from the first one - which focuses on financial movements around the various actors that appear in the first file. The Federal Prosecutor's Office placed this second case before the same investigating judge so that no information could be lost. Two international letters rogatory were therefore drafted for the Congolese authorities, one in each case in accordance with the purposes pursued. These letters rogatory were sent to the SPF Justice for transmission to the Congolese authorities through the SPF Foreign Affairs. The details of the requests made by the Belgian judicial authorities in these letters rogatory are obviously covered by the secrecy of the investigation. On 20 November 2015, the Congolese Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation acknowledged receipt of the rogatory commission in question of unknown of the head of assassination in connection with the disappearance of Stephan De Witte. On 21 November 2015, the Congolese Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation acknowledged receipt of the letter rogatory concerning financial movements. In both cases, the Congolese Ministry transmitted letters rogatory to the competent judicial authorities of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Since then, there has been no news from the Congolese authorities, despite several attempts by the federal prosecutor's office to activate its contacts with the Congolese judicial world. The competent services of the FPS Justice and Foreign Affairs will certainly reactivate the requests if the Federal Prosecutor's Office is to express the concrete need for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u103	Minister, you have answered only a part of my questions. I also asked you about the division of the file between the Congolese side and the Duferco file. With regard to the Congolese aspect and with regard to the symbolic importance of the file, I can only encourage you, along with all the links of justice and diplomacy, to activate these various requests so as to be able to achieve a res judicata. Res judicata may be used to exonerate the person concerned or, on the contrary, to provide evidence in relation to serious facts. It seems to me that these are particularly symbolic dossiers and even if it does not depend only on Belgian justice, it is always harmful that symbolic dossiers cannot succeed, whatever their conclusions. I therefore ask you to pay attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u104	I would point out that Question No 9197 is transformed into a written question. Question No 9233, also by Mr. Van Hecke, is transformed into a written question. The others were dealt with, until question No 9926, turned into a written question. My questions Nos 9986 and 9987 are transformed into written questions. Mr Gilkinet has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u105	Mr President, Minister, a documentary produced by two German channels broadcast this 2nd March reveals the existence of suspicious bets on the outcome of a first Belgian football division meeting. More specifically, the match between the KV Ostend and Waasland-Beveren was quoted on 17 January 2016. Extremely important stakes would have been recorded on the number of goals in the meeting. The report even indicates that "five-digit" sums have been withdrawn in some betting institutions. It is, of course, up to the courts to check whether these suspicions are well founded or not, but in any case, fraud in relation to bets constitutes a real gangrene for the competition sport which it is necessary to fight vigorously. Minister, has an investigation been initiated following the revelations of the two German channels about this game? If so, what department is in charge of this investigation? In general, what department is involved in this type of investigation? How many such cases have been brought to justice in the last three years? How many of them have resulted in an investigation? How many investigations have been resolved? How is cooperation with other European states on this issue going? Are improvements needed? What kind?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u106	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, football organisations address the national football alert point. The handling of such complaints and information by the national alert point is the responsibility of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. Under the direction of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, the central services of the Federal Judicial Police have begun an investigation into a possible rigging of the Ostend-Waasland-Beveren meeting. The Hasard Games Commission is currently examining online gaming behaviors based on the names of professional players who are part of the Pro League. This research takes a little time. Similarly, it examines whether some players have invested more than 1,000 euros in Belgian legal agencies. An investigation will then be conducted to clarify whether they bet on their own games. In press shops, there is no registration for bets because the maximum bet cannot exceed 200 euros per betper per day. A national platform on sports corruption can make concrete proposals for the fight against the manipulation of matches at European level and guarantee the integrity of sport and authorised bets in general.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u107	Minister, I take note of your response and of the fact that an investigation has been initiated. It is one of the many cases in the area of justice that deserves your attention. You've definitely got a lot of work to do. I wish you well for the rest of the answers, but also for providing concrete answers to the various phenomena that you have to analyse and deal with.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u108	Question No 10010 by Mr Denis Ducrame is transformed into a written question. Questions Nos 10040 and 10198 by Mr Stefaan Van Hecke and Mrs Sophie De Wit have been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u109	Mr President, my comment just now about the chaotic was not just about this committee; it is rather chaotic throughout Parliament today, that is my impression. Minister, at the moment the court is investigating the forced prostitution of a 13-year-old girl. I suppose it is being investigated, because my question dates back to 9 March. The girl was offered as a child prostitute on a Dutch chat website and via social media. She would now be under the supervision of the juvenile justice. It's a case of so-called loverboys who would have forced the girl to have sex with grown men. The abuse has been going on for a long time, some sources speak of months. And, not unimportantly, there would have been a first report of the abuse in September last year. Apparently, this isn't the only case where the Justice Department reacts so late. This new case is apparently not an isolated case either. Child Focus mentions at least sixty girls who have been victims of loverboys in the last two years, which would assume an alert attitude of the Justice Department. Why does the Justice Department intervene so late in reporting such horrible facts?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u110	Mr President, Mrs Jiroflée, in connection with the matter to which you refer, I have informed myself at the College of Attorneys General. The mother of the minor in question reported rape of her daughter earlier that day on 18 February. According to an assistant, her daughter left school that morning and drove off with an unknown 25-year-old to a campsite where she would have undergone sexual acts. The police area of Rupel contacted the magistrate of duty on 19 February for further instructions. The minutes were transferred to the court on Saturday, February 20th. Since then, the search is ongoing. In mid-March, the public prosecutor also received a report on the victim's profile on kinderchat.nl, which was attached to the file for further investigation. In order to protect the minor, the juvenile police also started a file after having received notification on 1 March from the institution where the minor was already placed through voluntary assistance. On the same day an urgent social inquiry was launched, which highlighted the urgent need for intervention by the juvenile court. On 3 March, an urgent and worrying situational action was taken before the juvenile court. Apparently, the minor had been followed for a long time by voluntary assistance, which thought it was in control of the situation and had not informed the juvenile guard of possible criminal offences. The files were dealt with immediately after the public prosecutor's office was informed. On the basis of this fact, it is difficult to endorse your opinion that the Justice Department should intervene in the reporting of such serious facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u111	Thank you, Minister. I assumed you'd answer in that sense. We were pretty shocked by this anyway. My colleague in the Flemish Parliament has also asked questions about voluntary succession. Somewhere it goes wrong. I'd like to believe that the data you indicate is entirely correct. I'm sure I'm convinced of that. Well, I guess things didn't work out before. So there is a problem between the aid and the justice system. I would like to join my colleague from the Flemish Parliament and make a strong alarm. The fact that Child Focus mentions so many cases is a sign that something goes wrong. I think there's something wrong with the coordination.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u112	Minister, a little over a year ago, I was asking you about the willingness of some prosecutors to impose a quota of PV for speeding up. Indeed, in the face of the large number of PVs to be treated, the parquet floors are engorged and can no longer follow. You told me that the quotas do not relate to the findings made by the police areas, which would not be reduced. On the other hand, beyond a certain number (depending on the material capacity of the public prosecutor's offices) of PV, the public prosecutor's offices would no longer deal with "surplus" minutes. You seemed pretty excited about that idea. I quote: "Such a formula therefore reduces their level of unnecessary tasks related to the administrative procedure of classification without further action and restores an effective and therefore credible policy of prosecution. It is also a signal of a desire to achieve a better match between enforcement and prosecution policies, taking into account the treatment capacities of prosecutors and police courts in relation to the control objectives of the police services." Today, it seems that the idea has been abandoned, in any case at the level of the Liège Public Prosecutor's Office. Indeed, after various calculations, the Public Prosecutor's Office realized that only two of its 19 services knew a real "boom" of the PVs, namely the police zone of Liège and the highway police. The solution proposed by the Prosecutor of the King of Liège is then in consultation with the police zones to reduce by 40% the number of PVs for speeding, favouring a qualitative rather than quantitative approach. Have you been aware of this measure taken by the Liège Public Prosecutor's Office? Has it already entered into force? Will other parquet floors follow the example of Liège? Is it a solution to reduce the congestion of the public prosecutor's offices while not inducing a sense of impunity in the head of citizens? Are there ongoing consultations on this subject, including prosecutors' offices, IBSR, Regions and police areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u113	Mrs Cassart, the Attorney-General of Liège did, on 22 December 2014, adopt a directive establishing a quota system for the sending of minutes for findings concerning authorised speed exceedances. As part of the implementation of this directive, following an analysis of the number of minutes, the King's Prosecutor noted that, on their own, two police services accounted for 81 per cent of the entry flow. Examination of the data from the Liège police area alone revealed a very significant increase in the number of minutes between 2014 and 2015, mainly due to the operation of the Lidar type radar. It has therefore been found that the application of an identical quota to all police areas would be unfair, since many areas produce a significantly lower figure. In view of this finding and the disappearance of the practice of consultation with the Public Prosecutor's Office, the King's Prosecutor has opted for an effective weekly consultation between the WPR and ZP Liège departments and the Liège Public Prosecutor's Office. Concertation between police, judicial and administrative authorities is highly desirable. Indeed, the sixth reform of the State transfers some of the relevant powers to the Regions. Thus, in the framework of the work of the road traffic expertise network of the College of Attorneys General, several meetings have already taken place with the federated entities in order to ensure a perfect match between the implementation of these new competences and the criminal policy of the prosecutors itself dependent on these means.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u114	Minister, thank you for the comprehensiveness of your answer. This is obviously a dossier that we will follow. It would indeed be interesting to know the position of the other public prosecutor's offices and whether they would follow the same path as the Liège Public Prosecutor's Office. In any case, your answer was quite complete, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u115	Minister, I already asked you a question in January 2016 about the increased influx of asylum seekers. There has also been an increased influx of unaccompanied minors. It was about 5 000 people in 2015. As a result, of course, there has been a shortage of guardians. You then replied and made sure that more guardians were recruited. When I asked you the question, 70 additional guardians had already been recruited. Even then 70 guardians were already in training. Nevertheless, today we find that there are again about 850 unaccompanied minors without guardians, which is problematic. They can only register their asylum application or application for protection, but cannot do any action without their guardian. They are therefore not invited to a meeting by the DVZ or the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless. As long as they do not have a guardian, their records will therefore remain frozen and valuable time will pass. However, this time is important for unaccompanied minors. That has to do with the procedure. The more time they lose, the less opportunities they get, which is very unfortunate. In addition, they remain longer in a reception situation. My questions are as follows. What can you do, or do you intend to do, to deal with this remaining deficit in addition? How will you do that? Conversations with people on the ground show, on the other hand, that the new guardians are now there, but some of them have been waiting for months for a pupil to be assigned. Apparently, something would go wrong with the matching. Can you look at that problem, too? Can you speed up the matching? If there are guardians who are already ready and trained, how can you speed up matching? At present, professional guardians, i.e. guardians who perform their duties professionally, are allowed to accompany up to 25 young people. However, a voluntary guardian, i.e. a person exercising that custody after his hours or doing so as a retired or unemployed person, may accompany 40 young people. That doesn't make any sense. Do you also want to look at this for the sake of quality and because young people are entitled to good guidance, to see whether this ceiling can also be reduced to 25 young people for voluntary guardians? Finally, what about the figures? How many guardians have one pupil? How many guardians have two to five pupils? How many more guardians do they have? You may be able to give me those figures in writing later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u116	Ms Lanjri, in 2013 and 2014, the 240 guardians were sufficient to place all unaccompanied underage aliens under custody. As of mid 2015, the influx of unaccompanied minors has increased enormously, so that the Voogdij department has resumed the selection interviews. On 15 March 2016, 360 guardians were already active. In April and May 2016, 60 new guardians will be added. The delay in the appointment of a guardian is currently less than 820. The organisation of monthly information sessions for candidate guardians, the selections for the recognition of new guardians and the provision of training are systematically continued. The additional hiring of guardians by the associations with which the Voogdij has concluded a protocol, such as Caritas, the Red Cross, Ceso and Exil, whose costs will be fully borne by the FPS Justice, has been delayed, but in 2016 the six new employee guardians will have been recruited. It is not the case that guardians who have followed basic training wait unnecessarily for one or more pupils to be assigned. Beginning guardians usually start with one guardianship, but take on several once they have realistically estimated the time investment. At present 44 guardians exercise more than 25 guardians each, 114 guardians between 2 and 5 guardians and 80 guardians only one guardian, who will take additional custody within a short period of time. The rest of the guardians took in custody between 6 and 24. Ideally, a guardian does not exercise more than 30 guardians at the same time, but in order to cope with the very high influx, most guardians have taken on more guardians at the request of the Voogdij Service. Now there are 16 guardians who work for one of the associations. At the same time, they exercise at least 25 and often 30 guardians, even if they work in a four-fifth working time regime. Finally, I would like to point out that guardians working on an independent basis can take up more guardianship precisely because of their statute.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u117	Minister, it is very positive that 60 people will be added in April and May each time. However, according to the latest figures, my question dates back to 25 March: there are 820 unaccompanied minors without guardians. I hope that the additional guardians will reduce that number as soon as possible. However, I would like to ask whether it is not unusual for a voluntary guardian to be able to take up so many guardians. I think it's a little weird that a professional guardian can take on less custody than a voluntary guardian, who can take on so many. That is a very bizarre situation, all the more so because she was also spotted by experts from the field. With regard to the allocation of unaccompanied minors, I have also been informed that guardians should effectively wait for the allocation of the first pupil, and not only of the second. I hope, Minister, that you will give to the Voogdijk department that there is still a problem with the allocation of the first pupil and that this can be dealt with.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u118	Question No 10081 by Mr Stefaan Van Hecke is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u119	Minister, it turns out that in the meantime, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has partly answered me, but by referring me to you for the most part of the answer. According to press reports, Yassine Lachiri, a Belgian sentenced to 20 years in prison for terrorism at the end of July 2015 in Brussels, arrested and detained by Turkey, was allegedly given to the Islamic State in exchange for Turkish hostages. Your Foreign Affairs colleague has just told me that one of our diplomats was able to see him this morning in Turkey. You were part of the trilateral that met your Turkish counterparts in early March. In this context, did you mention the case of Yassine Lachiri? It seems that, for the time being, the Turkish authorities do not wish to respond to Belgium's request for extradition? Why? How does Turkey justify its refusal to cooperate with regard to requests for the extradition of persons sought and/or convicted by the Belgian courts and found on its soil?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u120	Mr Dellemagne, judicial cooperation between Belgium and Turkey concerning Yassine Lachiri, convicted in Belgium, is the subject of contacts between the authorities of the two countries. The Ankara ministerial meeting in early March was not intended to discuss operational cases. However, I recalled that this issue is important for our country. I am aware of the information in the press, but these are not confirmed by our services in charge of this file. The latest information in our possession indicates that the person concerned is well detained in Turkey. Bilateral cooperation with that country must certainly improve. This is true in a number of security-related areas, as the discussions in recent weeks have shown. This is also the case for judicial cooperation, particularly in the case of extradition. I had a frank and direct discussion with my Turkish counterpart in this regard at that ministerial meeting. The situation is complex, but it is clear that we need effective judicial cooperation and respect for human rights with Turkey, particularly in the fight against terrorism. A seminar bringing together experts from both countries and focusing specifically on bilateral judicial cooperation will be held in Brussels in the coming weeks to improve practical aspects. There are frustrations on both sides. Direct contacts are expected to overcome a large part of the obstacles. In any case, it is certain that relations with Turkey are not simple at the moment. We must overcome the difficulties, because bilateral relations are indispensable, both for Belgium and for Turkey, in the fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u121	Minister, thank you for your answer. As you say, relations with Turkey are not very easy at the moment. It's been a while. Turkey's lessons in the fight against terrorism are not welcome given the difficulties we have in coordinating and cooperating with them in the fight against terrorism. I cannot understand why Turkey refuses to extradite this dangerous individual. I hope you continue to demand this extradition.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u122	Joined Questions Nos 10187 and 10188 by Mrs Carina Van Cauter and Joined Questions Nos 10240 and 10241 by Mrs Sophie De Wit are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u123	Minister, you have recently been received by the President of the Diyanet, the Turkish Directorate of Religious Affairs, Mehmet Görmez, to discuss ways of using the Muslim community established in Belgium to prevent radicalisation. Indeed, the Diyanet counts no less than a seventeen mosques in Belgium. It is therefore the main dome of the Turkish mosques in our home. I share your interest in this issue and the dialogue seems to me important in order to be able to build on all possible measures that would promote living together within our country and be able to focus on prevention and not, as is often the case, security. Minister, who was present at this meeting? Were other representatives of the Muslim community present? Can you give me the different elements that came out of this meeting? What are the different projects that have been addressed? You mentioned the formation of imams at this meeting. What about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u124	Mr Minister, in addition to Mr Blanchart's questions, to which I join, I would also like to ask you about your trip to Ankara with your colleagues from the Interior, Foreign Affairs and Asylum and Migration. The purpose of the trip was, inter alia, to improve cooperation between Brussels and Ankara on the issue of combating terrorism. Minister, can you give us a debriefing of your meetings on this subject? Did your meeting with your Turkish counterpart allow you to discuss certain Belgian-Turkish judicial cases? Finally, you met Turkish journalists and human rights defenders. What was the content of these meetings? Can you tell us more about it, too?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u125	Mr Blanchart, Mr Crusnière, on 9 March, I had an interview with my Turkish counterpart during which I discussed judicial cooperation, inter alia in the field of extradition and the fight against terrorism. The aim was not to discuss individual cases but to see how to improve bilateral cooperation in general. The main conclusion is that it is essential to implement direct contacts between competent authorities for judicial cooperation. A technical seminar is being held in Brussels at the end of April to improve these practical aspects. Both Belgium and Turkey must ratify and implement the relevant Council of Europe instruments in order to streamline and facilitate extradition and mutual legal assistance. I stressed from the outset that justice, human rights and the rule of law form an essential basis for Belgian-Turkish relations, in particular freedom of association, freedom of the press and the efficiency of justice, which are necessary to combat crime and terrorism. On 9 March, I had an interview with Mr Mehmet Görmez, the Turkish Supreme Imam and President of Diyanet, the Turkish public body competent for religious affairs. There was no other representative of the Muslim community present. This was the first contact between the authorities of the two countries competent for cults. The meeting was therefore marked by the stimulation of dialogue and consultation, in particular on the formation of imams in Belgium. The discussion took place in a cordial atmosphere with a note of respect and openness beneficial to future contacts. I have expressed the hope that in the long term more imams will be trained in Belgium for at least some of their studies, in particular to improve their knowledge of the local language and to add an aspect of integration to their training via a final year of master's studies in Belgium. They could then be in closer contact with the environment and the needs of the Muslim community they are looking after. Mr Görmez showed understanding for this point of view and said that Diyanet had been looking for a European system for its formation of imams for quite some time and that, in the absence of a real alternative, a preference was given, until further notice, to their system to form imams entirely in Turkey. Nevertheless, it became clear that Mr Görmez was open to any form of cooperation with regard to imam formations in our country. The long meeting I had, together with Minister Reynders, with human rights defenders and the Turkish journalist was obviously enriching. These people have asked us to maintain the dialogue with Turkey and to continue opening the chapters in the EU accession negotiations on justice, fundamental rights, freedom and security, in order to put pressure on the Turkish authorities to honour their commitments in these key areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u126	Mr Minister, this is really a case in which we must remain proactive, since it is estimated that now some 30 mosques in Belgium are subject to Salafist influence. This is twice the estimate made in 2001 in a report by the R Committee. Belgian intelligence believes that Salafism has definitely nested in the country, in various forms. It can be seen from the presence of imams and directors of mosques, groups of believers or visiting preachers inspired by this rigorist and conservative current of Islam, most of these mosques are not known and escape the screening of the Sûreté. The Sûreté is called upon to give an opinion whenever a case of recognition is submitted to the Muslim Executive. I believe that the situation is still serious and that it is really important to keep an eye on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u127	Thank you, Minister, for these answers. I would like to ask for a small request, Mr President, because I have to go and defend my text in plenary. If my colleagues agree, I still have a little question to ask the minister very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u128	Mr President, Minister, this is a question I asked a while ago. I've asked you a number of times about this. I know that the situation has changed since now, visibly, the famous wing for radicalized has opened and welcomed its first inmate(s). I would just like to ask you to take stock of the situation and whether all the measures have been taken because there were some concerns at the union level about the number of agents still missing to open this wing. There were also concerns about the security measures taken, which were not optimal. This could be a problem because some cells have a window that opens onto the meadow. This could allow inmates in the radicalized wing to have contact with other inmates.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u129	Mr Crusnière, I organised a last meeting of the basic consultation committee of the Ittre prison on 4 March. At the end of this meeting, I set 11 April 2016 as the opening date for the specialized sections in Ittre and Hasselt for radicalized prisoners. No agreement has been reached with the trade union organisations, but the authority has committed itself to certain rules in terms of supervision. On 6 April, a briefing was held with trade union organisations on the state of play of the planned openings. With regard to the framework of the imams, a reinforcement has been planned. The presence of an imam specifically devolved to the section was never mentioned. On the other hand, in terms of supervisory framework, although the specific staff was clearly defined from the beginning of the negotiations, I was clear in linking the question of the opening of the section to the current rationalization exercise. My goal is to achieve a budget savings of 10% in staff costs over the current legislature. This exercise carried out by a group of experts was finalised for Ittre prison. According to the conclusions, there is no need for reinforcements at this time. At the meeting of the basic consultation committee on 4 March, the prison authorities assured that, with certain organisational adjustments, the opening of the section would not be a problem. The agents appointed and trained to work on this section have sent me a letter, in which they ask to implement their new competence as soon as possible. I would also point out that, at present, more than 100 persons related to terrorism are being held in all Kingdom prisons. Three of them, convicted, are actually staying in Ittre. These are not inmates who must be placed in the specialized section. The specialised sections of Ittre and Hasselt have been open since Monday 11 April.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u130	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u131	Mr President, Minister, when someone dies without heirs, a curator of the unattended estate is appointed. I am thinking, for example, of an OCMW official, who is faced with this professionally, and who is all too often confronted with uncertainties and a lack of a legal framework. For example, it is unclear to estimate the cost, but also the rules on the curator's remuneration are not clear. This framework is clearly laid down by law in the case of a collective debt regime or in the case of the appointment of a liquidator in the event of bankruptcy. In this case, only a number of general articles in the Civil Code and the Civil Code apply. The appointment of a curator is also quite cumbersome. Thus, in Article 1154 of the Code of the Court of Justice, the court of peace has jurisdiction to appoint a curator, but only to take interim measures, and then to appoint, through the family court, a curator who can take final measures. That's in Section 813 of the Civil Code. I have the following questions. Is it desirable, as in the case of the appointment of liquidators in the event of bankruptcy or collective debt, to provide a legal framework for this matter, including the nature of the control, but also the duration of the curate, the remuneration and the cost-bare arrangements? Has any initiative been taken in this regard? If so, which one? Is there any thought to hand over the appointment of a curator to a peace court, both for taking provisional and final measures? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u132	Mr President, Mrs Uyttersprot, it is true that there is no provision in the current legislation concerning the control of curators or the costs associated with the appointment of a curator of an unattended estate. Although the law does not determine anything in this area and the role of the judge is limited to the appointment of a curator, a study by the Supreme Court of Justice shows that the judge exercises some control at the end of the term of office. In its opinion of December 2015, the Supreme Court of Justice found that the current legal provisions on the management and liquidation of unmanaged estates and on the remuneration and costs of curators of unmanaged estates are insufficient to form the basis of a control system worthy of that name. This opinion of the Supreme Court of Justice is based on the investigation carried out to evaluate the control of the management of protected persons, in particular in the context of the Law of 17 March 2013 on Reform of the Incompetence Schemes and the establishment of a new protection status consistent with human dignity. Work is underway to improve this legislation, in particular as regards the quality of management and fees. This work will, where appropriate, be a true source of inspiration for improving the management of unmanaged estates. They will therefore enjoy my full attention. As regards the answer to your second question, I must stress that Articles 1154 and 1228 of the Code of Justice have a different scope. The first paragraph of Article 1154 is part of the articles of the Code governing the procedure of sealing. It provides that the court of peace may not be sealed if the value of the household council of the estate does not exceed EUR 1 240 and if the spouse, heirs or one of them is suspected to be absent or not present. In that case, the court of peace must make a description of the household board, as well as of the money and the movable values found at the place where he acts, and entrust them to a curator. However, when one speaks of an unattended estate, this means that after the expiry of the term of the estate description, three months, and of reflection, forty days, no one has registered to claim the estate, no heir is known, or the known heirs have rejected the estate. In the event of an unattended estate, the family court shall designate a curator at the request of one of the interested parties or at the request of the prosecutor of the King. That's Article 1228. The curator must first seek possible heirs. In addition, he must manage and settle the estate, starting with determining the state of the estate by means of a property description. It follows that only Article 1228 of the Civil Code, together with Articles 1229 to 1231 which complete the aforementioned Article 1228, specifically concerns unmanaged estates. These articles go together with Articles 811 and 813 of the Civil Code, which also deal with the unmanaged estate and which refer to the curator, appointed by the family court pursuant to Article 1228 of the Civil Code. These articles are harmoniously aligned. I therefore believe that it is appropriate to examine with the utmost seriousness your suggestion of rationalizing and centralising the procedures relating to the administration of goods in the hands of the court of peace, as set out in the daily opinion of the Supreme Court of Justice. I take this issue with me in improving the legal provisions on the management and settlement of unmanaged estates and on the fees and costs of curators of unmanaged estates, which I intend to achieve after completion of the work on the Law of 17 March 2013.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u133	Minister, that is a very fast-paced sandwich. I have also read the recommendation of the Supreme Court, to which you rightly referred on a regular basis. That was also the reason for this question. In particular, like you, I conclude that you are indeed taking these suggestions with you, particularly with regard to the appointment by the peace court of rights in rem and immovable property. For the rest, I will have to read it at ease, because it was quite a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u134	On 20 March 2006, the Belgian Buddhist Union (UBB) submitted an application for recognition of Buddhism as a non-denominational philosophy, as provided for in article 181, paragraph 2, of the Constitution, with the first paragraph relating to the recognition of religions. Since 2008, the UBB has been working closely with the administration for this official recognition. Since then, several Justice Ministers have succeeded each other and have indicated that the case is progressing well. At the end of the previous legislature, some details remained to complete the text of the recognition bill. Negotiations with your firm intensified last fall to reach an agreement. Today, you feel that the conditions for recognition are met and all the terms and conditions are settled. The next logical steps would therefore be a discussion within the government and in the House. But the attacks put other priorities on your agenda. In addition, you have recently highlighted the budgetary impact of such recognition. Therefore, my questions are simple. When will this issue end on Parliament's table? You talked about consulting with the authorities in the country. Who is it and what weight does it have on the case of recognition of Buddhism? What budget is to be planned and what budget is already planned to finance this recognition?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u135	On 22 September 2015, an information meeting was held with representatives of the Regions and Communities on the issue of recognition of the UBB. Among other things, it emerged that there was a need for clarification on the financial impact of recognition on the Regions and the Communities. In particular, the impact on the provinces is discussed, as the UBB wishes to structure itself at the provincial level as a non-denominational organization. Indeed, recognition would have implications at the level of education. As mentioned earlier in this Commission, this issue had to be put in brackets because of the attacks in Paris. That is why we asked for and obtained understanding from the UBB. Currently, preparations are being made to submit the UBB recognition file to federal government representatives through an IKW. Since 2008, the UBB has received a subsidy to help structure Buddhism in Belgium. To this end, €165 000 was allocated to the UBB for 2016. Since recognition has budgetary implications for the various entities of our country, they must be informed in detail and consulted before a bill recognizing Buddhism can be tabled in Parliament. The financial means involved in the recognition of Buddhism depend on a number of choices made. On the basis of the number of Buddhist councillors, Buddhist philosophical commitments and staff for the Federal Secretariat that have been communicated to us to date, it will be necessary to count around €6 million per year for all the federated entities. The organisational system proposed by the Belgian Buddhist Union, i.e. an organization at the provincial level, will result in the provinces having to include in their budgets the amounts necessary for the operation of these provincial institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u136	I take it from the minister's response that it is not immediately given the significant budgetary impact. As a follow-up, I wonder whether the Belgian Buddhist Union should be seen as part of the second paragraph as an unconventional philosophy or simply as a cult. This is an issue that I will come back to because there are divergent views on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u137	Mr.President, Minister, since February 2, 2012, mental destabilization and abuse of a person's weakness is an offence. It has been envisaged that an individual who is aware of the weakness of a person and who has fraudulently abused him or her to lead him or her to an act or forbearance that seriously harms his or her physical, mental or heritage. The original purpose of this new offence was to criminalize acts of mental destabilization committed by certain sects. It was the result of a personal work carried out for several years. But we have decided to go further and tackle the abuse of weakness in general, whether physical or mental, and whether it affects the elderly, the sick or the disabled. Minister, could you take stock of the implementation of this legislation since it came into force? What types of offences have been covered by article 442quater of the Criminal Code? What types of public (sect victims, the elderly, persons with disabilities) have been the subject of the application of article 442quater of the Criminal Code? Have any courts used the power to order that the judgement or a summary thereof be published at the expense of the convicted person? If so, how many cases and in what cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u138	Mr President, Mr Frédéric, I am not aware of any specific assessment of the application of Article 442quater of the Criminal Code since its entry into force in 2012. As far as other issues are concerned, unfortunately I must inform you that I do not have any data on this subject. Apart from the fact that the public prosecutor's databases do not allow for detailed information on the quality of the convicted person or for statistical selection of source data on the basis of these variables, I hope you will understand that it is difficult to request such statistical data in the context of an oral question. I am prepared to take up the problem with a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u139	Minister, I am the author of this law. I was surprised, by attending the tenth anniversary of the same law in France (the About-Picard law) to find that there was no difficulty in giving an approximate number of five to six convictions per year for sectarian drifts and 500 to 600 convictions for abuse of weakness on the elderly person. In hindsight, I wanted to know whether our law had an impact, whether we could measure it and whether we were using the same law. I was asking you for information. I will therefore table a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u140	Minister, the government agreement and the subsequent Justice Plan provided for a reform and modernisation of the second-line assistance system. This will be on the table in Parliament in the near future, I suppose. The aim is to ensure that the right of access continues to exist. However, in recent years, the cost of second-line assistance has tripled, from EUR 25 million in 2003 to EUR 78 million in 2014, and this increase is unsustainable. A study by the National Institute of Criminology and Criminalism (NICC) published in 2013 showed that 20% of the beneficiaries were purely favoured on the basis of insufficient income, while 80% of the beneficiaries received legal assistance because they belonged to a so-called referred category for which there is a rebuttable or irrefutable presumption of inability. The figures on which the NICC was based were the legal year 2010-2011, a good five years ago. I now want to get a better view of the actual weight of the different categories. That is why I would like to ask you the following question. How many cases of second-line legal assistance have been favoured by category over the past three years, broken down by bar association, and by counter for Brussels. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u141	In reply to your question, I keep at your disposal the following information, which was provided to me by the Order of Flemish Balies concerning the different categories of beneficiaries. The first table, Annex 1, is the overview of the categories of beneficiaries per desk as regards the number of closed cases between 2012 and 2015. The second table, Annex 2, shows by counter the sum of all closed cases between 2012 and 2015. I haven't received any numbers from attorneys.be.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u142	I'm going to see to what extent that ratio is still the same. It will certainly be relevant when the reform comes to Parliament and when the debate on the brake money and the budget comes on the table there. Now we see that only 20% of the target group is entitled to a pro-Deo lawyer for financial reasons and a financial ceiling. That target group will probably also be the group that has to pay brake fees. I think these are relevant data that we're taking to the meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u143	Minister, the breakdown of the family unit and the disintegration of family ties have the effect that more and more frequently, following the death of an isolated person, the family environment of the individual is slow to be notified or determined. In this case, the estate is deemed vacant, at least for the time necessary to find the heirs. With a view to settling these estates as quickly as possible, the justices of the peace and the family courts appoint either a trustee for the furniture or a trustee with a vacant estate. However, it happens that, in departure from the practice and opinion of the Supreme Council of Justice, the court appoints a person who is not a lawyer, notary or judicial officer as a trustee of vacant succession. These are sometimes even commercial companies which have as their object, in particular, both in Belgium and abroad, on own account or on behalf of third parties or in participation with third parties, the exercise of judicial mandates from curators to vacant furniture or estates. If this practice is not illegal, it raises questions and questions, both to lawyers and notaries. It is thus possible to wonder what would happen in the event of the bankruptcy of the commercial company or in the event of the death of the trustee natural person, having regard to the principle of confusion of assets. Therefore, Minister, what would happen to the vacant estate in the event of the bankruptcy of the commercial company or in the event of the death of the trustee natural person, having regard to the principle of confusion of assets? Is it appropriate, in your opinion, for the judicial mandate of a vacant trustee to be entrusted to a natural or legal person who is not controlled by any professional order? Can a commercial company with a relatively large object provide for the exercise of judicial mandates in its social object? Would it not be appropriate, by means of a legislative initiative or administrative circular, to put an end to a practice which is dangerous in view of the risk of a financial accident of the natural or legal person not covered by Article 8/1 of the Mortgage Act, and which leaves a doubt as to the risk of acquiescence between certain judicial authorities and commercial companies which would have provided for the exercise of judicial mandates in their social object?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u144	My colleague, before answering your various questions, I would first like to remind you of the legal framework. The family court shall provide for the appointment of a curator at the request of any interested person or at the request of the king's prosecutor. The appointment is published in the Belgian Monitor. However, certain registers are kept at the Registry of the Court of First Instance, in which, in alphabetical order of the names of the deceased, the designations of trustees with vacant succession are entered. The trustee must first search for potential heirs and is then obliged to liquidate the estate by first making the state of the estate known by an inventory. It is true that the current law does not set any requirement as to the quality and capacity of the person who may be designated as a curator. The Company Code is not intended, except within the limits of public policy and morality, to determine precisely which activities may be pursued by a commercial company. Therefore, one of them could play the role of curator. Since the vacant trustee is appointed by the judge, the judge may be considered to be circumspect. The missions and tasks of the curators require knowledge, skills, specific experience, as well as integrity. A number of universities therefore provide for highly successful training for curators. Although there is no provision in the law on this matter, it appears to restrict the role of the judge to the appointment of the trustee. However, a study by the Supreme Council of Justice shows that the judge exercises control at the end of the term of office. What happens when the commercial company goes bankrupt is not fundamentally different from the case of the death of the trustee natural person. When a commercial corporation goes bankrupt, a trustee is also appointed to administer bankruptcy as a good family member. It can therefore reasonably be assumed that the trustee who administered the estate of the commercial company, under the supervision of the judge commissioner, will take the necessary steps with regard to the curatelle of the vacant estate and that this will be effectively controlled in the context of the bankruptcy of the company. In the event of the death of the trustee natural person, the judge is required to appoint another curator. As you know, because I have still had the opportunity to answer questions from Mrs Jadin, (...) concerning the very quality of the administration and the question of fees. Where appropriate, this work could serve as an inspiration for the administration of vacant estates. I will not fail to be attentive to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u145	Mr Minister, on Monday 14 March, the press referred to a letter sent to you by the 19 civil registrars of the Brussels-Capital Region concerning the issue of fraudulent paternity recognitions. You have had the opportunity to confirm this in the plenary session on 17 March on the occasion of a topical question which was asked to you on this subject. Observed in most Brussels municipalities, this phenomenon is growing. It would concern the instrumentalization of pre- and post-natal paternity with a view to obtaining a residence permit in our country. In this regard, I quote an edifying example communicated by an echevine in the media. In a well-known case, only one man recognized 17 children from 16 different women. This very worrying situation has not failed to make many of our fellow citizens react. Of course, in recent years the municipal authorities have made a number of efforts to effectively combat white or grey marriages, as well as cohabitation of convenience. However, there is currently no legal means of combating the phenomenon of "paper babies". In order to take stock of this dossier, I would like to have answers in addition to those you have given in plenary. Do your services have a detailed assessment of the issue at hand? Is the trend on the rise for the whole territory or is it only for the Brussels Region? In plenary, you announced that measures had already been adopted in this area. I know you were still waiting for opinions. Has your approach evolved? If so, can you inform us of these developments?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u146	Mr President, Minister, last year I asked you a question about the false recognition of children. These are children who are being abused for fraud or for obtaining a residence permit. At that time, you agreed that this was a serious problem, on which you and Mr Francken, Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, would sit together to see what measures could be taken to prevent such false recognition. In addition, you also stated that under the law on administrative simplification, first-degree ascendents and descendants are to be mentioned in the National Register, Population Register and Foreigners Register as of 1 January 2015. The cities and municipalities have been given the time until 1 January 2016 to complete missing data. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Have you spoken to the Secretary of State about this? If so, have measures been taken to counter the false recognition? What measures are these? If not, how long will we be able to hear more about this? Can anything be done at legislative level to prevent abuse of false recognition? How do you see that? Have the missing data in the registers been effectively completed since 1 January 2016? Has this addition revealed false recognitions and been followed up further?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u147	As I indicated in response to a topical question in the plenary of the House on 17 March, the civil registry officers of the Brussels-Capital Region did indeed write to me about the problem of fraudulent recognitions. In this letter, they draw attention to this problem, which is becoming more and more widespread and requires resources to be able to deal with it. They propose a legislative framework based on the regulations on marriage of convenience and legal cohabitation of convenience, in which the civil registry services can conduct an investigation. The opinion of the Public Prosecutor's Office may be sought and fraudulent recognitions may be cancelled. They also call for a limitation of the civil registry officer's territorial jurisdiction over recognitions, in order to prevent the phenomenon of shopping. At present, civil registrars have no specific legal basis for refusing recognition of complacency. Some prosecutors make good efforts to intervene by using the provision on public order contained in article 138a, § 1, of the Judicial Code. Given the lack of a specific legal basis, I have no figures on this phenomenon. The case law is therefore limited, but it is clear that this problem does not only concern the Brussels Region. Civil registrars in the other regions have also already drawn attention to this problem. I am fully aware of the seriousness of this problem. In my policy note of November 2015, I already indicated that the strengthening of the fight against marriages of convenience and legal cohabitation of convenience had the effect of shifting the abuse towards recognition of the child with the sole aim of obtaining an advantage in matters of residence. You must understand that this is a particularly complex issue, since it also involves a child who is likely to have a biological relationship. In the meantime, concrete measures have been prepared both preventively and repressively, in consultation with the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. In addition, a proposal for a concrete text has already been submitted earlier this year to the College of Attorneys General, the Civil Registry Associations, the FPS Foreign Affairs and the Office of Foreigners. At the moment, the text is adapted in the light of the opinions I have received. The final text will be submitted to the government in the coming weeks, so that Parliament can vote as soon as possible. The ascendents in the first degree and the descendants in the first degree are indeed mentioned in the National Register, the Population Register and the Aliens Register. This measure provides civil society officials with useful information in the fight against false recognition. However, only three months have elapsed since 1 January 2016, when the missing data had to be completed. That's too short a period to make an evaluation. In addition, there are no figures available that can demonstrate the impact of this on the detection of false recognition. As I mentioned earlier, there are no figures available for the number of false recognitions due to the lack of a legal basis or qualification. It will therefore not be possible to assess the impact as there are no figures available to compare.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u148	Minister, thank you for your answers. I have taken note of your supplement and will come back to you when there is more evolution on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-13-54-commissie-ic379x.u149	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand there's a text in the pipeline. We wait for them with tension.
