ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-08-54-commissie-ic486x.u1	Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I salute you. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. First of all, I would like to apologize to my colleague Vincent Van Quickenborne. He can't attend our meeting this afternoon. This is a follow-up to the debate that began last Tuesday. On that day, we heard the company's representatives. We had a very interesting and fruitful exchange on content, for which a full report will be distributed as soon as it is completed. We have two items on the agenda. The government wanted to take stock of the case, give us a certain amount of information. Secondly, we will have a topical debate, namely the questions that colleagues have asked the government, sometimes two ministers. But I assume there will be a cross-check of points and questions. The panellists will ask questions in the chronological order in which they were received by the secretariats. I reassure colleagues, especially those who are not used to coming to the Committee on the Economy: speaking time will not be as limited as indicated in the House's Rules of Procedure on topical issues. It would make no sense not to allow colleagues to express themselves sufficiently. I just want everyone to do it in a reasonable way over time. I will not be more direct about speaking time on the Caterpillar dossier than I am, for example, on nuclear energy, to refer to the Committee on the Economy. I would also like to propose adding a third point so as not to start with procedural issues. This would relate to follow-up and order of business. We talked about the letter to management, the urgent invitation to the same direction. At that time, the government will have given its answers; the debate will be closed and we will then be able to consider the follow-up to be given to our work. Without further delay, I give you the floor, Prime Minister for the state of affairs on the Caterpillar file.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-08-54-commissie-ic486x.u2	Mr. Chair, as agreed, I will speak briefly through an introduction that will allow the government to respond to the various questions and comments that will be raised. I'll start with a retrospective. On Thursday, 1 September, we are informed of rumours that an important meeting would be held on Friday, 2 September in Caterpillar. From that day on, we are concerned and concerned. In fact, during the day I will have a contact with Paul Magnette during which we will try to cross-check the information at our disposal. My firm will try to receive more information from the Belgian management of Caterpillar. We will have contact with her but she will refuse to give us any information, any comment in relation to the meeting that was to take place the next day. On Friday, September 2, like all parliamentarians and trade unions, who learn it in a more formal way, we understand that a decision is taking place, a decision that I call brutal, a cruel decision, a disgusting decision on the merits, disgusting in the way it was communicated. We are all very directly affected by this personal tragedy for thousands of families, one day back from school. We imagine dads and moms who have to explain to their child, one day back from school, in what situation they are in, with the uncertainty and anxiety that this can represent. We immediately held an emergency meeting with the Walloon Minister-President and the Minister of Employment at Elysette in Namur in the presence of the various trade union organisations. It was a first meeting and it offered the opportunity to take note of the first information. It was definitely a difficult and emotional moment. However, it was also a time to show strong political will and strong political commitment, not only in words but through cooperation between the various governments, both the Walloon and the federal governments, and the representatives of the workers. There was also a strong will to launch and organise the best and most intelligent possible response. Immediately, I pleaded, in perfect synchronization with the Walloon Minister-President, for a sacred political union beyond, of course, the differences of approach and reasoning that may exist on the economic level between the various parties – that is democracy. It seemed to us that it was necessary to act hand in hand in order to be able, as best as possible, to defend the interests, not only for the Charleroi region but also for the whole country and all the families concerned, thinking not only of the workers of Caterpillar but also of the whole indirect economy, that is to say all the subcontractors who, for some of them, are very directly and very hard hit by the decision that has been taken. I would like to give a number of elements in terms of the response that we may need to organize. First of all, there's the Law Renault. Mr Kris Peeters will soon be communicating more elements about this. However, I would like to say immediately that full respect for the Renault Act is the first priority for us. We want to commit ourselves to full respect for the Renault Act. In this context, there are several moments, as you know. A first priority is to clarify and clarify the real reasons for this decision. Hearing the truth is a fundamental right in these circumstances. That is why we will fight with the workers and the Walloon Government to get transparency and find out the real reasons for this decision. Firstly, the Renault law: Mr Kris Peeters will say more. Secondly, I want to announce to this committee that we have immediately initiated a public procurement procedure to instruct a law firm to accompany the federal government at all stages, in order to examine whether legal liability for misconduct, in the legal sense of the term, in the head of Caterpillar, can be incurred. We wish, on foot, point by point, to see if it is legally possible to take responsibility for fault in the head of Caterpillar. Of course, I am thinking of the commitments made in 2013 as part of a first rationalization process for which legally binding commitments had been made. We wish, with specialized lawyers, to see if we have any means of action to be offensive and to put Caterpillar in the face of his responsibilities. I want to be clear: if it is necessary and if it is possible, we are obviously considering legal proceedings against Caterpillar. Finally, I want to give some additional information on coordination. It is about coordination with the Walloon Government and with the workers. The Walloon Government plays an important role in this, of course, given the division of powers in our country. However, the federal government will do everything possible to support the workers. This means, more specifically, that next Monday we will hold a meeting with the Walloon Government and with the employees, the Caterpillar trade unions, but also with a platform of the representatives of subcontractors and subcontractors, to look at the overall situation. This will allow us to verify where we stand in the context of the Renault Act and the other important points that will be addressed in the coming days and weeks. What seems to us to be a priority, and many have said so, I share the analysis that has been done, is to mobilize fully to give all the chances so that an industrial activity can be confirmed, strengthened and maintained on the site in question. We must mobilize in every possible way to maintain industrial activity and, through it, try as much as possible to limit job losses in the context of the tragedy we are facing. This must be our top priority and here too, I rely heavily on coordination with the Walloon government to examine together all the opportunities, all the possibilities to support a realistic, credible project to keep jobs to a minimum in the weeks and months to come. It won't be easy, it won't be easy. There will be concerns, doubts, anxiety, but we must hold the backbone, the backbone of this commitment, of this will. We absolutely must. Finally, it goes without saying that the situation of workers who, for some of them, would not be saved in their jobs in the context of the conversion of the site, must obviously mobilise us at our different levels of responsibility. There, of course, the Renault phase organises a number of social arrangements. I think that every one of us here is saying that on the elements that relate to the federal government's jurisdiction in this area, we are not, at any rate, talking about giving a number of indications that would make Caterpillar's life easier in the negotiation process. To be quite clear about the tax treatment of redundancy benefits for which decisions have been taken in the past, and which have changed the tax situation, for the question of reform in the area of pre-pension, it is not a question for us today of giving information that could be used by Caterpillar at the beginning of the negotiation to detensify the position of workers. On the other hand, what I want to say formally here is our commitment, with the Minister of Employment, with the government, in cooperation with the Walloon government and the trade unions, to see, point by point, how we can support the negotiation so that Caterpillar is in a position to assume its responsibilities fully. Mr President, I would like to make a few brief comments. I know that, in the days following this brutal decision, it has been said in some comments that large companies are still under threat in our country. I would like to call for caution. We must avoid saying certain things and acting under the influence of too violent anger or emotion. I ask that we not put all companies in the same bag. I would like to point out that the large enterprises in our country make up, of course, only 1 per cent of the economic world, but they account for almost 40 per cent in terms of employment. In addition, when large companies are established, a fabric of SMEs is directly linked to them. This is, moreover, tragically evident with Caterpillar's decision, which puts thousands of additional jobs at risk. We are, of course, very determined to continue our efforts, as successive governments have done in recent years, to support small and medium-sized enterprises more strongly. I will not recall here all the concrete decisions that have been taken on this subject. In my view, it must be measured that in order to have a dense fabric of SMEs, we also need a few large companies, which are an engine for economic development. After a painful situation, there is also a need for a political debate to draw lessons and to distance ourselves from immediate topicality. What do I establish as Prime Minister, with two years of experience in this position? We are trying with the various authorities to take federal, regional and European initiatives to attract investment. We need to invest more in job creation in order to be able to finance our social model sustainably. I also note, however, that the decisions that should be taken to anchor the companies in our country can sometimes be a brake on new companies and new investments. You mustn't lie to yourself. You have to tell the truth. We are faced with a form of paradox where the measures that can be taken, for example, to complicate the departure of a company, are also obstacles that will lead to fewer companies investing in a given region or country. We must, with honesty and nuance, try to solve this difficult equation. It is not specific to Belgium; it is a debate of international and European dimension, of course. Another important point in relation to what I have just mentioned is the protection of workers. I have heard that, in our country, workers would be less well protected than elsewhere against the risks of dismissal, including collective dismissal. I mean the opening of the government to try to object to this situation; we must, together with Parliament, look point by point if this statement is correct. Nevertheless, I note – and I keep the documents available – that one of the latest OECD studies shows that Belgium is one of the countries that best protects its workers from the risks of dismissal. I do not refuse the debate. We can look together at exactly what this type of report is about. Nor will we avoid this issue in the political debate. Another important point for the future is thinking about a possible corporate tax reform. A few months ago, before the tragic decision of Caterpillar, we gave a mandate to the Minister of Finance to submit proposals on this matter to the Council of Ministers in the context of our budgetary decisions. We have set three priorities for these corporate tax reform proposals. First, to attract businesses in a sustainable way; to attract sustainable investments in order to meet this famous equation. Secondly, support small and medium-sized enterprises more strongly. Thirdly, take positive measures for employment and create more jobs and opportunities to develop economic activity. The battle for employment is the cardinal point that must obsess us night and day in order to improve our social situation, At European level, since the debate is naturally open in view of the situation around Caterpillar, we have several elements. We support the initiatives to gain access to possible European funding. There are European funds for such tragic circumstances. We will therefore, together with the Walloon Government, make every effort to effectively defend the social interests of workers. I am convinced that it must be possible to obtain European solidarity in the matter. The first contacts have been made to achieve effective results. At European level, it is not just a question of solidarity after the tragedy. European commitments must also be made for a clearer and stronger industrial policy. I too have a feeling of frustration today. It is not the first time that political discussions, both in Belgium and in other European countries, have shown that, after a tragedy, there is no commitment at European level to industrial policy. Belgium, the federal government together with the Länder, which play an important role in the distribution of powers, must play a stronger role in pushing both the European institutions and the other European countries forward towards more mixed commitments for an industrial European policy. This is not the first time that, after dramas – as Belgium and other countries have unfortunately experienced – there is a lack of ambition at European level. I do not think, and this feeling seems to me to be shared, that the future of Europe is oriented exclusively towards the development of services. We must have the ambition to produce on European soil. This means that certain commitments must be made. The European Commission has a supporting competence in this area. I regularly note, in the Council where I have been a member for two years, the reluctance and coldness of many Member States to strengthen the Commission's capacity for action in terms of industrial strategy. This is a debate we must have. Finally, I simply conclude, Mr President, by recalling that this is a hard and violent blow for families, first of all, but also for our country as a whole. I do realize that it is not only a region that is concerned, but all of Belgium. Through subcontractors, we see how much each region of the country is potentially affected by this tragedy. As I often say, the DNA of this government is job creation. More than ever, this goal must mobilize us and remain our obsession, even when we face such a tragedy. More than ever, we want to support the workers who are facing this anxiety and this pain in the belly caused by the uncertainty of the coming weeks and months. I want to reiterate the government's commitment to fighting foot on foot, using the legal weapons at its disposal, this American undertaking. I can confirm that we immediately made contact, through our diplomatic representation, with the American leadership. At the beginning of next week, our ambassador in Washington will meet with her. We will prepare this interview with the Walloon Region. A contact will probably be made next week in Belgium with the American leadership. Our intention is to be offensive. We will not allow for a form of impunity for this undertaking, because it will have to assume its full responsibilities. That's the commitment I want to make with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-08-54-commissie-ic486x.u3	Mr. President, I have prepared some slides. Is it possible to distribute them? [[Oui]] I'll be very brief. I can fully endorse what the Prime Minister has said. I would like to stress once again how much we are aware of the social and economic drama caused by the announcement of the closure of the Caterpillar site. We, the Prime Minister and myself, were on the scene last week. There we also spoke with the Walloon Prime Minister, Paul Magnette, and the regional ministers and trade unions concerned. As a former Flemish Prime Minister, I myself had to deal with similar closures, namely the closure of Ford in Genk and Opel in Antwerp. I am therefore certainly prepared to make available all the experience we have gained in the negotiations at the time, first of all, of course, from the Walloon Prime Minister, who will chair a task force as soon as possible, perhaps already in the meantime. Both the Prime Minister and I have offered our services to provide all possible information and support. In my view, priority should be given to having hard and direct discussions with Caterpillar's management. It is also necessary to consider whether there are alternatives to that closure. You have introduced several questions about the Renault law. The slides that were distributed contain once again didactically all that you already know about the Renault Act. Following the announcement by the Executive Board of its intention to resign collectively, the Renault Act provides, first of all, for consultation with the employees' representatives on the possibilities of preventing or reducing collective redundancies or to mitigate their impact by contributing to the relocation or retraining of workers made redundant. I would like to make it clear to the House that the duration of this procedure is not laid down in the law. Workers must be able to ask questions, to make arguments and to make counter-proposals. Such consultations must be conducted in a serious manner and no decision shall be taken at this stage of the procedure. We will come back to this later, including when it will be about SWT. We understand very well that this first phase does not have to be completely exhausted, but also that there is no need to take decisions or answer questions in that first stage, which mortgage the discussions in that first stage. At present, it is difficult to say how long this consultation will take and what its conclusions will be. It is also difficult to determine the correct number of workers actually affected by the closure of the company. I believe that the Walloon Region is currently drawing up a list of suppliers directly or indirectly affected. As far as Caterpillar is concerned, of course, we know the exact number, but not as far as the other companies are concerned. Especially as far as SMEs are concerned, we have to check the list and calculate exactly the number of workers involved. Once the consultation phase has been completed, negotiations on the social plan can begin. You should know that there is no legal framework for working out this social plan. The aim of the negotiations is to obtain certain benefits for workers, in addition to the legal obligations imposed by the law on the employer in any case. Some elements of this social plan, such as support for the relocation of redundant workers, outplacement and the establishment of employment cells, depend on the region's regions. In this case, that is the Walloon Region. Others, such as access to the single payment unemployment scheme, pre-retirement, are powers of the federal government. You should know that Caterpillar has been recognised as a company in restructuring since 14 February 2014. Since that date several derogations have already been granted to the holding for the purpose of granting unemployment with a single payment. The access age was set at 52 and a half years, there are shortened notice periods and there is no obligation to replace. You know, as you can see from the slides, that if a company is recognised as being in difficulty or in restructuring, it is still possible for workers from 55 years onwards to benefit from the scheme of unemployment with a single payment, provided that the collective redundancies take place in 2016, that the employee has reached the age of 55 at the time of the announcement of the intention to make collective redundancies, that he was dismissed during this recognition procedure, that a collective agreement is concluded in 2016 in the company referring to collective agreement No. 117 closed in the National Labour Council for the period 2015-2016, and that the notice period begins and ends during the recognition period of the company in difficulty or in restructuring. This possibility therefore exists for workers aged 55 and over, on the basis of collective agreement No. 117, but there are a number of conditions that you will find in the slides. The redundant workers who will benefit from the single payment unemployment scheme will also be able to benefit from the provisions on adapted availability. Since the approval of the firm in difficulty, the Federal Government has also allowed the company to put its staff in temporary unemployment for economic reasons in order to enable it to continue its activities. I have here, Mr President, the exact figures on this matter. In 2014, 924 workers were put in economic unemployment for a total of 67 757 working days and a total of 4 492 442. In 2015, 815 employees were employed for a total of 61 239 working days and a total of 3 789 860 euros. For the first seven months of 2016, 818 employees for a total of 32 179 working days and a total of 2 012 550 euros. I am not losing sight of the fact that the Prime Minister has just stressed that the federal government's ambition is to pursue a policy of growth and strengthening our competitiveness so that our companies can create additional jobs. The announcement by the company Caterpillar about the collective dismissal of so many workers goes completely against the government's priority objective of creating jobs. That is why, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is absolutely necessary to have a serious and high-quality social dialogue in order to preserve what is to be preserved and to safeguard the efforts made by the government, as well as by previous governments, to reduce labour costs and promote employment, which are absolutely top priorities. Where appropriate, it may also prove useful to call on social mediators. I understand that some Members have referred to this. We may be able to come back to that later. I would like to confirm once again that my services and I are prepared to make our support and expertise available to the Walloon Government and to anyone who asks for support, information and expertise. This is a very serious matter which we must tackle with the necessary serenity, as the trade unions have shown up to now. We hope that those who lose their jobs will not only feel it, but will also be able to see that we are doing everything we can to get them back to work or to keep their jobs as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-08-54-commissie-ic486x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give you a little communication before I turn to the questions. The services of the House are even faster and more efficient than I thought. The secretariat tells me that the provisional version of the report of our discussions is already available on the website. "Provisional version" means that authors can still verify and correct. It's still a big work done in a very short time. I thank the services for that. It is also interesting to have this document for our work. We shall now turn to agenda item 2, namely the topical and urgent debate, as I mentioned earlier, in the order in which the questions were put. The first speaker is Mr. Massin.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-08-54-commissie-ic486x.u5	Mr. Chairman, Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, as the work of our committee at the beginning of the week will be available, you will quickly become aware – as the services of the House have worked well – of the fullness of my speech that day. As far as possible, I will try not to repeat myself, even if the President has told us that we do not want to interrupt the speakers, given the importance of the social drama that we are experiencing. But I think it is also a good tone that speakers do not abuse their speaking time either. Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, you have mentioned some of the qualifiers we share: the situation is shameful, scandalous. The behaviour towards the workers is disdainful or even humiliating: not having an interlocutor, not knowing who to speak to, learning the news on a day of school return and then having no one in front of you. We can afford to snore the parliament, but with regard to the workers, it is particularly humiliating. It's intolerable, it's disgusting. You weren't there when the unions came. They remained very worthy in the pain that affected them. Relating the situation experienced by their comrades, they unanimously told us that it is intolerable and disgusting. That is why we must ask this company for justification. You know, this company pays taxes, it makes profits. She paid for it in 2013 and in 2014, she will pay for it for 2015. Following the various restructurings, the last one dating back to 2013, this company is productive. This is the big talk in fashion at the moment: you have to be productive. This business is productive. Workers have made enormous efforts in terms of wages and flexibility. They have made efforts in relation to their situation. Check the numbers, number of pre-pensions were granted in 2013. I'll come back later. It is simply intolerable that a company that produces profits should be closed down. This is disgusting in relation to the efforts made by the workers. And – you are right to say that this concerns the whole of Belgium – it is disgusting for all Belgians who, without realizing it, have also made efforts since this company has benefited from reductions in social contributions, notional interests, reductions, etc. – even if, as I said, she paid taxes. That is the situation. That is the current situation. In relation to this, a whole series of questions arise. The application of the Renault law. Justifications must be given. I am pleased to hear, even if it comes under the heading, that you are moving in the same direction as the Walloon government, focused on this phase one. The Walloon government should meet Wednesday with a leader from the United States, it seems, the head of the entire operational branch for Europe, of which Caterpillar Gosselies is part. It would be good if you also met them, asked for economic justifications and justifications in relation to the indirect aid received. Notional interests are indirect aid. Reductions in social contributions are direct aids. And all the other diets they were able to benefit from. It would be good if you asked them for justifications on the economic calculations that have been made. This is the application of the Renault Act No. 1. It is, as you said, a responsibility. We need to know things. We have the right to the truth. If they refuse once again to listen to parliamentarians and answer their questions, I expect you, Prime Minister and Minister of Employment, to take the initiative when you receive these explanations. This seems to me to be fundamental to making sense of everything that can happen after and also to avoid that workers, who are very worthy, remain in uncertainty. Today, some of them feel guilty, while they are not guilty of anything! They are essentially guilty of having worked in a company that had only one thing in mind: to distribute dividends to shareholders. It's their only guilt as long as we can talk about guilt for the worker who ultimately can't do it. The workers are waiting for explanations and if we want everything to go properly, because they are worthy and respectful, we must offer them every opportunity to remain so. You have heard like me the slogans that were given: "to be present in the company, to respect the contract of employment". In other words, workers have the right to clarity and truth. You said it! Of course, we count on all the interlocutors in this regard. As far as the procedure is concerned, you mentioned a public procurement for the appointment of a lawyer. Indeed, some areas need to be clarified, such as compliance with commitments. I can consider bringing a trial for misconduct in the head of the Caterpillar leadership because in 2013, firm commitments had been made by Mr. Polutnik. I would point out that Mr Polutnik is a carolo. Counterparties had been requested in relation to these commitments, and both the workers and the government had fulfilled them. As you were part of this government, you know that. For the time being, everyone has responded, with the exception of the boss. It seems logical to me to try to see what is happening at the level of responsibility for fault, but I believe that at some point, Prime Minister, Minister of Employment, some coordination is necessary. You say that you may not have to say everything either, that there may be things to keep for yourself so that the boss doesn't discover all our cards. It's like a poker game. In this case, we are playing with the future of workers. It also goes in every direction. For example, with regard to the possibility of expropriation for reasons of public utility, it is true that analyses must be made; at the level of the Walloon government, they are under way. But we must also consider the application of the Business Continuity Act. I heard your party president say it here. He suggested that workers and trade unions should do so. Prime Minister, beyond the fault that might exist, we are facing a profitable company. She's not in trouble. If there is any uncertainty, opportunity or possibility, that the Belgian State should advise workers' organisations to initiate this action and go to the commercial court, as far as possible, as you have said. But don't throw powder in their eyes either. If that's the reality, let's go! For now, checks must be made. I would also like to point out that the government, like Parliament, in case of uncertainty about a law, can also table interpretative laws. Of course, we would be prepared to discuss it. We have to put every chance on our side. If we manage to get this shareholder and these business owners back on their decision, so much the better. If this is not possible, it will have to be made clear. If legal action is not possible, it will also have to be made clear and very quickly. This is the least one owes to workers and trade union organisations. You have to be very clear with them. But if we didn't prepare what could happen next, I think we'd be criminals. For me, the criminal is, for now, the boss. I don't want to be accused of complicity tomorrow. So preparations are needed. Questions are being asked. As you said, the workers are worried. Their fundamental fear is their future. If the job is saved and Caterpillar continues its activities, the situation will be clear. Thompson, who arrived by plane with bodyguards, announced in a quarter of an hour that it was over – "Goodbye, I'm back" – and left everyone in uncertainty. The Belgian management will receive another American. It is clear from these various statements that this is over. Perhaps that is what they will say to the Walloon government on Wednesday and what they will tell you if you have the opportunity to meet them or what they will let you know through diplomatic channels. I know that we are in the first phase of the application of the Renault law and that the negotiations will follow. In any case, the workers in Caterpillar and the subcontractors, to which I will refer later, are waiting for answers to the clear questions they have asked. Decisions were taken by the government when Ford Genk was closed. Can we also benefit from this, even if it involves the CCB instead of pre-pension? We are asking for a status for the workers. Mr. Minister of Employment, you have pointed out what the right availability is. Thank you, we know what this is about – and the trade union organisations too. However, even if you return to work, this measure is still present. Workers ask for confirmation that they will be granted a status. You will meet them with the Walloon government as part of the task force that has been set up. Reassuring them that their legitimate claims, which require treatment equal to that of Ford Genk, should be taken into account, since this file was often recalled. There are of course exceptions, with the contribution reduction card, on all the information. It's fundamental. That's Caterpillar's worker. You mentioned the subcontractors whose importance you also raised. I welcome this unanimity in all the actions that are taking place. The government has work to do and is at the initiative of many projects. But there are still decisions that are the responsibility of the federal government and the federal parliament. This is the second phase, the social plan. It is the measures that can be put in the balance. If you don't want to talk about it here, let's do it. I heard you don't have to give them guns, you don't have to shoot down his cards. I can hear it. You have meetings with the workers, with the trade union organisations, they have to be told. They must be reassured so that they can reassure others themselves. On the subcontractor side, there are also initiatives, decisions to be taken here at the federal and federal levels. They will not necessarily benefit from the Renault law. There may be economic unemployment that is going to happen at some point, or dry layoffs that will occur. What solutions can we offer to subcontractors tomorrow? What solutions can be proposed to these workers tomorrow, which the trade union organisations consider today? The Walloon government is carrying out its survey work. There are some that are easy to identify because some of the subcontractors work on the site. Other subcontractors obtained 100 % turnover with Caterpillar and with the same conditions and sacrifices as those of the 2013 restructuring. Others earned 25% and 50% of turnover. There's gonna be layoffs. For example, I talked about it when the trade union organizations came, there is a suitable work enterprise in Charleroi, which depends on the province of Hainaut, which is called Metalgroup. They are people with disabilities. This firm is a subcontractor for Caterpillar. Tomorrow, 25 people will lose their jobs. The province is trying to see if it can be recased, but unfortunately for them, we are not in the private sector, we are in the public, so a whole series of measures are not applicable to them. Whether in the public or in the private sector, what efforts will be made for these companies? Will the social plan, which would be in phase 2 of the Renault procedure, be applied purely and simply, or will other measures be taken? These requests have also been made by trade union organizations and need to be answered relatively quickly. They have a lot of contact with Caterpillar workers still at work but people could get fired very dryly and this could happen very quickly. They will then have to be taken over as quickly as possible. The ball will not only be in the hands of the Walloon government but also in the hands of the federal government. Prime Minister, Minister of Employment, you have spoken a lot about competitiveness, which is the government's objective. We do not share the same view on the aids that need to be provided, but we share the same view on the need to create jobs. I would like to draw your attention to what is said by the trade union organizations. They spoke of the bankruptcy of an economic model, of the bankruptcy of capitalism. Why? It is an answer that you will have to make in the near future, whether it is in the budget or in certain bills that you are going to table on Parliament. Here, we have a company in which the workers were flexible, they have made a great deal of effort, including in terms of wages. The social security contribution is salary, I remind you, even if people forget it. They have made considerable efforts in the area of pre-pension, career development. The company makes profits, pays taxes, and in spite of everything, we close the doors. We do not share this model, but we will do the debate at another time. Another thing: you have talked about it, but little, even if you have a proactive policy in this area: the European plan. It is true that one can deplore the lack of ambition and commitment of a whole range of other States. I believe that we must be bearers, we must be the spearheads in this matter. We are present on many interdepartmental committees, ministerial councils, etc. We must therefore demand the establishment of investment plans, a real project of reindustrialization with the means at the key, transiting through the states and not through the banks. Everyone says, banks don't lend money anymore. They don't get anything. In addition, the Minister of Employment, who spoke on the Chinese stainless steel issue, had proudly announced here in Parliament that there was a company in Flanders and a company in Wallonia and that it was working. You announced a 25% tax on Chinese stainless steel. Unions had said that in the United States, the tax was 250%! I think you have a real fight to fight for the workers, for our companies, for our jobs. If the Americans do, why couldn't we? I believe that there is a need for a proactive policy at European level, a plan for industrialization, financing and setting up systems when measures or decisions are not respected in terms of social protection or environmental protection. This is social and tax dumping. We will also discuss social and tax dumping, Prime Minister. I would like to remind you that this is an intra-European relocation. There is work to be done at the intra-European level. You were talking about the protection of workers. Recently, there have been articles on the subject: the prior intervention of courts and tribunals in other States and not in Belgium. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-08-54-commissie-ic486x.u6	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the situation is very serious. I was able to visit Charleroi a few times, realize how disastrous the situation is for many families. These were very stable jobs, which allowed for decent remuneration, thanks to the balance of forces built in the company. It is a whole region that is affected. What workers in this country expect from a political debate today is to know what can be done. That is the debate: what can we do? However, in order to know what to do, we would have to analyse what is happening in this undertaking. Let me remind you that Caterpillar is not firing because she's making losses. Caterpillar doesn't even fire for a profit problem. Caterpillar terminates in order to guarantee a steady increase in its dividends. One billion four hundred million euros leave the company in the form of dividends – what would be called in other circles a real capital flight. It is money that comes out of the company, that is not invested, that is used only to bail out investors, while Caterpillar decreases its sales. Caterpillar's dividends have increased for twenty-two years in a row. Many economists wonder why they make this decision. The only logic is this dogma, and I'm really talking about a dogma, to continue to increase the dividends of all the shareholders in the company. This allows me immediately to say, in advance of a debate that some want to initiate when the factory is not even closed yet, that Caterpillar's problem has never been the cost of wages. Caterpillar's problem has always been the cost of capital. This is Caterpillar's problem: return on capital. I would like a real dignity in the face of the workers. Not only will the workers suffer because of the closure, but I am already certain that the suffering of the workers would be a justification for the future freeze of workers' wages in the other sectors. What a cynicism! It really means: "Ah, you're suffering, it's terrible, but we learned the lesson, you know. We will freeze the wages of all other workers to prevent this from happening again." This kind of debate, for me, is really indecent. The problem here is the cost of capital. It would therefore make sense, ladies and gentlemen, for us to have a debate on what we can do about the cost of capital that kills our economy, which suffocates all forms of initiative. In our country, scientists are working on the best technologies. They manage to invest money in this Caterpillar company. It's almost Star Wars, this company! Have you ever been there? Everything's mechanized. The best scientists in the world are working to automate this company. What is the problem with this company? That's the expected return on capital. I therefore look forward to a debate on this issue. In fact, as I say at the outset, it is not just Caterpillar's problem. We're pointing our finger at the bad Caterpillar, all right. Ford in Genk, Opel in Antwerp, Renault in Vilvoorde, ArcelorMittal in Liège: these are always exceptions? Can't we generalize? Axa, 16% more dividends, 16% less jobs. That's another exception! But wait, when the exceptions begin to accumulate, that becomes the rule, ladies and gentlemen! And if that becomes the rule, we better have a real debate here between us about what to do with all these rules that are based solely on the diktat of dividends and the sacrifice of jobs. Prime Minister, I heard, "Jobs, jobs, jobs." It's getting difficult. Indirectly, there is a debate on the bankruptcy of employment policy in Belgium today. It's been 15 or 20 years since it's been logical to say that giving gifts to big companies will create jobs. It's really dogma. I sometimes try to get out of the debate in Parliament, but it is immediately said that I am not on the beaten track, that we must be competitive. I will, but I see! Notional interests have been handed over (150 million) – my colleague Marco Van Hees will explain it further. The coordination centres condemned by the European Union in the 1980s were transformed into notional interests. All these gifts are given. Not to mention reductions in social contributions... All this for these companies to shut down anyway! When I am asked today what should be done, in any case, to continue on this path is not enough. We must have a debate on how to break with this path. How, after Ford, Opel, ArcelorMittal, go towards a breakup? Prime Minister, I heard you call for sacred union. A sacred union for what? This is the debate. Either to prepare the post-Caterpillar – that is, to accept the closure – or to fight for Caterpillar to stay in the country, by a balance of forces. I'm telling you clearly, you won't be surprised, I'm in the second option. If you're talking about a sacred union to figure out how to replace Caterpillar, I won't be part of it, and my group will not. We must therefore have a debate on the purpose of this sacred union. We believe we can maintain the tool in Caterpillar, but for that, the political power must put everything in place to help the workers establish a balance of forces. But the balance of power, we must impose it. We do not accept that a multinational such as Caterpillar is so flouting our democracy. Our Prime Minister had to beg almost for a phone call. We, as representatives of the people of this country, cannot accept such diktats where multinational business councils have more power than the entire Parliament. The debate I am proposing today, ladies and gentlemen, is aimed at determining what steps should be taken to establish a balance of forces in order to force Caterpillar to make a dividend leap in order to maintain employment. If we workers have to pay more and more as wages are frozen, then this leap is necessary. Caterpillar can be affected. That is why I suggested this weekend that we consider force-relationship measures against Caterpillar. In this context, the PTB group had proposed a temporary seizure of the tool and the land. I am pleased to see today that the lines are moving and that this proposal has opened a debate in which presidents of other parties admit that this may not be a bad path. This will allow us to reflect on how to move in this direction. Prime Minister, you announced you were going to hire lawyers. Ask them immediately if respect for the Constitution, i.e. the limitation of private property if it violates public utility, can and must be a reason to seize the tools present on the site. In our view, the answer is clearly: yes. Indeed, seven thousand families in Charleroi, Flanders and Brussels are too important for their destiny to be left solely in the hands of the board of directors of a multinational company. We must establish this balance of forces with the support of all political forces. I say this clearly: if this sacred union is to force Caterpillar to come and negotiate, we will be part of it; if it is a sacred union determined to accept the end of the tool, we will not be. Is there any hope left? Yes, of course! Look at previous cases: Audi in Brussels, for example. I still see myself in front of the company when the announcement was made when the workers were gathered in a general meeting. It was over! Volkswagen would leave the site. Fortunately, the workers did not accept it and put pressure on them to go further. Today, we still produce on the Forest site. Similarly, the Forges de Clabecq: twenty years ago, it was said that it would be over and that we would close a shop. Thanks to the struggle of the workers, there are still six hundred who work on this site. It is therefore possible, ladies and gentlemen, to draw lessons from the past. I think about Ford, Opel and Renault. Will we continue to accept that multinationals play out the competition between the various workers and servants in Europe? 'Cause that's what it's about. It is about the European model. Is there another industrial model in Europe? Europe allows all multinationals to compete with each other. Our colleague has just pointed out that Caterpillar is not going to China, but to Grenoble. Are the wages different there? Not at all! Some fellow Members have referred to strikes. Isn't there a stop in Grenoble? Of course you do! So what's the problem? The problem has to do with the dismissal procedure in France. Prime Minister, you said we were going to study this. Study the difference in legislation between individual dismissal and collective dismissal! It is on collective redundancies that in Belgium it is the warehousing! In the Renault law, you inform: "Hello, I inform you that I will close!" That's great, thanks for letting us know! There is no possibility, either of the judiciary or of the executive branch, let alone of the legislature, to intervene a little on the authorization of dismissal. In the Netherlands, France and Germany, you have to go through other structures to see if this dismissal is allowed. I think that today there is an urgent need to draw up this balance of forces, whether at Walloon, Brussels or European level. Fatalism is not in order. I cannot accept that as soon as a company announces its closure, nothing can be done! "It's outrageous, but there's nothing we can do!" We have had this debate five times in Parliament in recent years, with the same tone. Yes, we can act to keep Caterpillar here, but for that, we need a mobilization of the present and not a fatalism of the future. It is in this sense that the PTB Group will plead in the coming weeks to draw up this balance of forces.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-08-54-commissie-ic486x.u7	Mr. President, Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your interventions. In relation to what my predecessor has just said, to us, to the cdH, the sacred union, it must be today, depending on what is happening in Caterpillar and in a whole series of other companies, AXA, CP Bourg, IBM. It must be today, but it must also be tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, because in terms of employment, employment support, job creation, we must also strongly unite all political energies, regardless of the level of power, and emerge from the tensions that have sometimes been observed between different governments. This is a tragedy for the thousands of families, for the thousands of workers in Caterpillar but also for the subcontractors, despite the fact that all these workers have made extremely important efforts. It should be recalled that the management of Caterpillar itself acknowledged in writing that the workers had been beyond the objectives that the management had assigned to them. This reflects the investment of workers and all that they have accepted in terms of flexibility but also in terms of wage developments. This is a tragedy for all these families, for the Charleroi region, for the province of Hainaut, but also for a number of other regions in Belgium where subcontractors are located. Speech is one thing. But in the immediate future, we need action. To this end, we must infiltrate into the slightest legal loophole, the slightest failure to comply with social, environmental or fiscal, regional, federal or European regulations. If there are any, we'll have to get into it. You mentioned the Renault law, compliance with collective agreements signed during the 2013 restructuring. I have examined them; however, it would be good if further legal analysis were carried out. You asked for a specialized law firm, which is a good thing. Nevertheless, I remain concerned, and I would like to hear you on this point, because if you refer to compliance with the collective agreements signed during the 2013 restructuring or the Renault law, a whole series of other provisions, which affect these workers and subcontractors, are raised in the Caterpillar case. A European directive has been incorporated into Belgian law in collective agreement 32a and concerns the transfer of activities. This directive is very clear: in the case of a transfer of activities (and this also concerns cross-border transfers, which is the case with the transfer of activities to Grenoble), case law shows that workers' rights must be maintained, their contracts including all working conditions must be maintained as well. Among these working conditions, there is the effectiveness of on-site work in Gosselies. In this respect, and after examining these documents, I believe that what is happening today and how Caterpillar transfers part of its activities to Grenoble is largely a matter of question. This dossier must be analysed with the utmost rigour. Because if the legal provisions included in this directive and even more so in the 32bis collective agreement cast in a royal decree, which must be applied, are not respected, it is a flaw in which you will have to get involved in the negotiations with Caterpillar. It is essential to look at another flaw as well. This concerns compliance with the Law of 24 July 1987 on Temporary, Temporary and Placement of Workers. What does this law say? It prohibits two principles. First, it prohibits lending people. A whole series of conditions must be met. I've examined the subcontractors who work for Caterpillar. There are many of them. There are external and internal subcontractors. The presence of these internal subcontractors questions the non-compliance with this law on the lending of persons. If this law is not respected, Caterpillar would then be responsible for all subcontractors. In this context, subcontractors could claim payment directly from Caterpillar, including severance payments. For these subcontractors, who depend on an employer, most often in small and medium-sized enterprises, the reality, if one day we have to negotiate a social plan, will probably be more difficult than for the workers in Caterpillar, you know as well as I do. You want to ask for a law firm; that's no problem. You carried out a public procurement procedure. It's gonna take time, it's normal. You don't have a choice. Prime Minister, what I'm asking you is to consider the need to send a social inspection now. That seems fundamental to me. Even if we know that the law firm is working fast, if you wait for him to be appointed to act, if you wait for him to establish all the provisions that need to be examined, the case will not move forward. In particular, we should now draw up a report of non-compliance with certain provisions, concerning what has happened in recent days and, for example, the law I have just mentioned on temporary, temporary work and the making available of the worker. This will allow you to already have legal levers and not wait for the law firm to do its job. Still in the breaches that we cannot let go, you recalled the amounts, the number of days, the workers and what Caterpillar was able to benefit from through the economic unemployment of the employees and the workers. These amounts are not negligible. In the face of what is happening, there are questions to be asked. Even today, Caterpillar benefits from this system of economic unemployment of employees and workers. This company will continue to benefit in the coming months. We're talking about a potential start in April 2017. I find it shocking that we can maintain the scheme and continue to pay public money, citizens' money, for the economic unemployment of employees and workers. I am not saying this against the workers, since if it is not the state that pays them this economic unemployment, the law clearly provides that it will be Caterpillar who will pay them their full and full wages. If this provision continues to produce its effects, it would be shocking if this company could still benefit from this public money for the next seven months. That they must then pay full and full wages to their workers! We must not leave gaps, we must be able to act, not only with lawyers, but with a social inspection, which will be able to draw up minutes to advance the balance of forces with the Caterpillar directorates. This seems to me essential, urgent and necessary in the action. We have to save everything that can be saved. Every job saved is important but we cannot fail to mention the future of workers and the social plan. There is reconversion, outplacement and a series of provisions that depend on Wallonia. It will require perfect coordination with the Walloon government. In relation to that, there are also questions and I have seen that you do not want to talk about it. With regard to the RCC device, age has changed significantly. Let us remember Ford Genk: the age was 50 at the time of the announcement of the closure, 52 years at the time of the closure. Today, in view of the restructuring that took place in 2013, the majority of workers, not to say all employed workers at the Caterpillar Gosselies site, are under the age of 55. About the social net, I won't push you further. I can hear the argument that you have raised about the importance of keeping as much ammunition as possible in the balance of forces and in the negotiations, but that is a point that I will not let go and that may need to be reconsidered tomorrow. It will also be necessary to examine how we can support a whole range of SMEs, and sometimes even larger companies, which have referred to the possibility of hiring highly qualified Caterpillar staff. This is a crucial point for the future of these workers. Ministers, a social conciliator will have to be made available because the various governments will have to be allied with the workers' representatives. However, not all staff in Caterpillar's subcontracting SMEs will necessarily receive the same support from their union. Therefore, the sending of a social conciliator seems to me to be an indispensable element. One of the representatives of the workers interviewed this Tuesday told us that, in order to be able to benefit from a social conciliator, it was sometimes necessary to wait six months. Mr Minister for Employment, may I insist that a social conciliator be quickly made available to them? All this concerns immediate action. However, tomorrow is not far away and soon we will have to learn lessons: lessons about the debate on taxation, on the unconditionality of direct and indirect aid, on the reform of corporate tax and on the balance between large enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises which are almost never relocateable, for one purpose only; that of job creation. At European level, fiscal and social harmonisation is essential. The cost of labour is not very different in Grenoble. This race at the European level is unpleasant. Prime Minister, have you had any contact with the French government? It would be unhealthy to learn that the latter rolled out the red carpet to attract Caterpillar to his home rather than to witness a closure of Grenoble. Is this not something unhealthy for the European project and for the European dynamic? Wasn't there an ecalote race there with the French government? Can you tell us about it? Finally, in the face of all these companies which have announced collective closures and redundancies in recent days, it is necessary to ask whether certain decisions taken have not had a perverse effect. Is there not, in particular, a perverse effect of the decision to revise the age of the CCB and to reduce it to 55 years of age? You know it's planned to bring him to 56, then 57. A decision-making and regulatory shift is expected by the end of 2016. You also know that in these cases companies calculate very precisely the cost that it can cost if they wait before they proceed with these redundancies. The combination of all these files gives me the feeling that the calculations that have been made by companies may lead them to do collective redundancies today rather than see what they would do tomorrow or the day after, feeling that if they do not do so now, it may cost them very much in the future. It's a perverse effect. If so, I believe that the government should ask itself this question and consider it in the light of recent decisions. Otherwise, tomorrow we risk having other announcements of collective redundancies, simply because companies think that it is necessary to do so now, if I can say so, to lose less money because of this particular provision. Thank you. I will, of course, reintervene on the basis of the government's responses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-08-54-commissie-ic486x.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, I will immediately inform you of my concern. I've heard you say you shouldn't be angry. I don't know who that sentence was. Was it at one of you, maybe even your party president? In any case, as far as I'm concerned, six days later, I can tell you that I'm still angry. I think I will remain so for a very long time, not just because I am from the Charleroi region. I'm angry not only about the method, but about the decision itself. Beyond that, six days later, Prime Minister, it is time to move from words to deeds. I'm gonna try not to be too long. I will ask you to take seven concrete actions, or in any case to position yourself against these seven actions. Because today the workers, heard two days ago in Parliament, are entitled to receive the first answers, to see the first actions taken, not just the words. It is obviously important in the first few days to have words of empathy. You've had more in your weekend interview than today. But whatever it is, let's take action. It is time to move from speech to action. The first thing I am asking for, very concretely, is to withdraw and commit you to never implement, which you provided for in your government policy statement and which aims to weaken the Renault procedure. Your Minister for Employment said earlier that the advantage of the first phase is that there is no delay. This is a strong point in the current negotiations and in the balance of power vis-à-vis the employers of Caterpillar United States. You plan, in your declaration of government policy, to empty this Renault law of its substance. I ask you to take a first step today by making a commitment to remove this and never implement it. The second act I am asking you is to stabilize the situation. As the chairman of the committee said earlier, we have already received - and I thank the services - the provisional minutes of the hearings. I have read well what the workers' representatives have told us, and in particular what has happened since the announcement of the intention to close. The computer service – I assume you have been informed or have access to the room website to get the report – is already relocated. With good reason, they fear other forms of relocation. They may be put before the fait accompli if you - and I am not aiming at the federal government, but also the Wallonia government with which you say you are working hand in hand - do not commit yourself here to taking the act that will stabilize the situation and prevent things, either physical or immaterial, from leaving the Gosselies site. The Renault procedure is not meant to empty the Gosselies company already. Acts are necessary. I'm sorry Olivier Chastel isn't here. I'm going to go back to what he said. He referred to article 14 of the Act, which allows the stabilization of firms in difficulty. Are you ready to use it? Some talk about requisition or nationalization, but it doesn't matter. I want to work under the law, but I want you to act. The signals sent to us by the unions testify to their concern about Caterpillar's non-stabilization in Gosselies. That's the second thing I'm asking you to do. The third concerns subcontractors. Both of you have addressed this aspect somewhat in your presentation. I ask you to make a commitment to treat them on an equal footing with the workers in Caterpillar. Their difficulty is that they will not automatically benefit, i.e. without your intervention, from the financial and social accompanying measures that Caterpillar might agree to grant at the end of the negotiations. Caterpillar is responsible for indemnifying subcontractors as well. Your commitment must be to tell the subcontractors, who will listen to or read your answer through the reports that we will have very quickly on the House site, as we have seen again this week, that they will be treated on an equal footing with the same accompanying social measures, even if we manage to save a good or a small part of the site. Other projects will have to complement these provisions, but this is not the debate today. On the other hand, it is now a matter of making this commitment to subcontractors. The fourth step I am asking you to take concerns the content of these accompanying measures, in particular those which your Government may or may not activate. You have latitude in this regard. I didn't like you hiding behind the need to negotiate, so you couldn't reveal your weapons. Indeed, the signal you give is very clear. In Genk, the government of the time had been able to accomplish certain things, but today you are seeking an apology invoking the current context, legal developments, budgetary and European constraints, etc. There are always justifications. I'm asking you for a commitment. I'm asking you for a commitment! I would ask you to say that what has been done in Genk, particularly with regard to pre-pensions, will be done in Caterpillar Gosselies and for subcontractors. The fifth commitment I am asking you is in connection with one of your recent statements. You say we need an investment plan, I agree with you. I think I'm not mistaken in saying that you have quoted a number of tens of billions of euros. By the way, reread my interview a year ago, I was asking for an investment plan of 20 billion euros and I was declining in mobility, renewable energy, insulation of buildings. Who knows if you won't be higher than the 20 billion ecologists were talking about? Can you now take the action to say that, within the framework of this investment plan, measures will be taken to enable the Gosselies site to continue to develop? I am not asking you to be precise because you have to work in both formulas, either with a part of Caterpillar or with others. Will your investment plan also benefit from this redeployment to Gosselies? You know like me how much the carolo basin suffers, he needs this investment plan. You know, like me, how much he has suffered in recent years from budgetary restrictions and the choice of austerity in this area. As far as the investment plan is concerned, the action you can take is to say that it will be open for investments in Gosselies and the Charleroi region. The sixth act I am asking you today is a little more technical but it is extremely important. I will ask you to agree to a study that must be initiated by your government to clarify what is known, from a technical point of view, as transfer prices. You hired a lawyer, but I don't think his mission covers that. You are free to hire someone else, while respecting the procedures, even if there are also emergency procedures. I ask you to initiate a study, and to make it transparent to our committee, which will clarify transfer prices over the last ten years within the Caterpillar Group as regards the Gosselies site. I'll explain. Caterpillar USA has become master in the ability to disconnect the place where it locates the benefit of the place where it was produced. We go through Switzerland first, then we go through other superstructures. What is wrong is that systematically, the Gosselies site – and perhaps others as well – transfer prices were in fact hiding fictitious prices, reduced. So necessarily, at some point, the cost of the Gosselies site is too high. It's so easy: when the purchase price of what Gosselies has to buy from other Caterpillar units is much higher than would be necessary and the sale price vis-à-vis other Caterpillar units is too low. For sure, prices become fictitious. My request is that you request a transfer price study. What has been said about dividends is right, and I have put it in exerge myself: there is a real problem in the current economic model when dividends grow as sales decline. There is a real problem in the current economic system when dividends per share are higher than the value of the share when divided by the full added value. It's a real problem, but it's not the only one. Today, I would like to go further than the figures highlighted two days ago. I would like you to provide us here in Parliament with a study on transfer pricing. There, we will see the reality of financial and not just fiscal arrangements, because of course there are laws and countries where competition is played, but within the group itself, there are arrangements. And that's what I'm asking you to do in a sixth act. The seventh act is of a different order but is part of the overall dynamics and the fact that we all want, in any case I hope, to involve ourselves in this fight to maintain a strong industrial activity in Gosselies in order to find a solution, not only for the 2,100 workers in Caterpillar but also the subcontractors. My seventh request is, therefore, that you, in your current or future contacts with the representatives of Caterpillar United States, explain to them why it is important that they come to Parliament, not only to answer our questions, but also to hear our anger. We don't just have questions to ask them and they don't want to answer them. As far as we are concerned, I and my group have some things to say to them. Since I know that you have or will have contacts, I ask you to do a relatively simple act by telling them to come to Parliament to hear what we have to say. I shall conclude, Mr President, with a general reflection on the economic and financial system in which we are. The Prime Minister said, in his interview this weekend – he acknowledges it, even though we have heard a little something else today – that we are at the limits of the system. It was the term used: "Yes, we touch the limits of the system." I have already told colleagues on Tuesday, you are here, I say again: no, Prime Minister, we do not touch the limits, we have exceeded them! If you take the time to analyse the situation of Caterpillar Gosselies, it is unacceptable in view of the economic parameters of this company, the quality of the workers – this was said during the hearings and it is said by others only by the unions that are suspicious for many parties of the majority. Economists have said so. If you wish, we can visit the site. You will see the location of the site which is ideal, in the heart of Wallonia with many lines of communication, with competent workers, regularly trained, updated, cutting-edge tools, investments. It is neither logical nor normal nor acceptable that the current economic and financial system should allow such decisions in situations like this. Here, nothing can justify it. It is therefore necessary to draw all the consequences. Today, I ask you to do seven acts, not more. But there is also a need to change the economic and financial model. Yes, Prime Minister, we need to protect our economy more. I do not agree with your answer when, in the same interview, the journalists asked you whether a dose of protectionism was not necessary. We must protect our economy! We need to protect our jobs more! Yes, we must assume the need for a protectionist policy! What do you think? In the United States, when the industry is not doing well, the president is obviously in favour of it. Aren't these protectionist measures he's taken for the cars he's made there? I am not talking about the consumer side, which we could discuss about VW and compensation. Mr Prime Minister, the Belgian workers and citizens expect you to protect their jobs and their economy in action, not only in words, but not in words, not in words, not in your refusal to protectism. Today, we must change the economic and financial system.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-08-54-commissie-ic486x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, you said "sharp, cynical decision," and that's true. Was it, however, totally unpredictable? After the outbreak of 2013 and the dismissal of more than 1,600 people at the time, was there not the warning signal that should have already forced governments to anticipate adverse developments? This may be the first question to be asked as a political leader. What initiatives have been taken by your government, by the Walloon government, to meet with Caterpillar's leadership in order to investigate its intentions the day after the first warning? Have there been any steps? Hasn't there been any process? I heard Mr Marcourt say that there had been no grant of certain aid to Caterpillar, in particular in terms of investment in research, probably because there was already a fear of a risk of relocation. How far have politicians, at any level of power, taken the measure of what could be framed in an underlying, underground, non-explicit way? Much has been said about the growth of dividends and the decline in Caterpillar sales. The latter takes the pretext or argument that inevitably the European market no longer represents the same supporting sector in terms of the sale of its products. I have a first thought. There is also a responsibility for some of the political leaders. In our approach to economic recovery, the only criterion of supply policy, at the expense of demand policy, all economists who seek to advise Europe in its desire to get out of the rut of its soft growth, if not insignificant, say that we can only work on the competitiveness of enterprises, which is certainly necessary, but that we must also work on support for purchasing power, for investment, without which there can be no growth. Why investment? Because when interest rates are so low, it is time to pursue a high investment policy, including at the initiative of the public authorities, because there will be a knock-on effect. Although some countries in Central and Eastern Europe are catching up in terms of public investment, it is clear that the construction sectors (buildings, public works) are not, for the moment, experiencing strong growth, of which we know how mobilising it is in our economies. But they were political choices. These are political choices. This is the consequence of the policies pursued with the sole objective of the treaties on budgetary convergence of the European Union. I hear Mrs Thyssen's worried about it now. These treaties may have been necessary at some time, but we have never wanted to loosen up somewhat in the light of the current economic circumstances. I heard Mr. Nollet asking for analysis, taking responsibility, forcing dialogue. One day, however, in Europe, governments, the European Commission, will have to deal with what is called the deindustrialisation of Europe... There would be a lot to say. There is, in fact, a deindustrialisation of Europe in the traditional sectors of production of large-scale machinery. That's right. But there is not a deindustrialisation of Europe in all sectors. We should not have a generalist, defeatist statement. There are traditional sectors of activity that are no longer leading sectors in Europe, or that is what we are trying to make believe. When will European governments and the European Commission analyse, sector by sector of activity, to verify what has been relocated outside Europe and which is reimported within the European Union? This is the real challenge of a policy to safeguard industrial sectors and the jobs that depend on them, particularly in traditional sectors. Why? Because it is probable – it is true in Caterpillar as in other sectors of traditional machine tool production – that we relocate outside the European Union or in some Member States on the basis of tax and social benefits, while then reimporting certain categories of these products. I am also in favour of an adjustment policy, via customs duties, with regard to this tax and social competition outside the European Union. The work must be done on a European scale, because it is not small Belgium alone that will be able to provide an answer. I would like to hear that we are going to establish a balance of power on our own, but the real balance of power will be manifested by the message that we will deliver through the European Union. The ideal of free trade and international trade could be dreamed of without binding rules, pitfalls and other tariff conditions, but that was not the practice of other countries, particularly the United States. The Buy American Act has no equivalent in Europe. I can always be told that it is a mistake. This may be one in economic theory, but it is a political reality imposed on the United States, which has no equivalent in Europe. That is why we will not have a balance of power in trade. So, Prime Minister, I ask you how far within the European institutions you intend to develop a logic that I would not even call "protectionist", but rather a rebalancing of relations and trade, so that Europe is not what I have called "a complacent prey" allowing multinationals – whose way of working we can discuss – to come and take market shares without taking on a counterpart in terms of employment and wealth creation. This is the real European debate, at the moment: how do we coerce? That is the logic of many other states. You ask Brazil if we can have access to some of their markets freely, you won't have it. You won't get it in the United States. Let's not talk about countries like China, etc. If we do not take a European perspective, we will not have a satisfactory response by the Belgian State alone. Second thought. Your dogma at all to the competitiveness of companies is broken down. Your dogma of rigour in the conditions of access to certain measures to accompany unemployment will also be broken down. This is particularly the question of the additional income dependent on the enterprise and the conditions of access, including the age condition. There is a great paradox that affects the quality of social relations in our country, which has always been one of the vectors of our economic growth. You cannot argue for a certain flexibility of work if, at the same time, when the efforts are made by workers in terms of flexibility of work, when they are under threat of unemployment, by end of activity in a sector, the conditions for access to unemployment or to financial conditions of unemployment worthy of their seniority of work are restricted. You will have to conduct this debate within the government and you will have to reverse the dogmatism of the N-VA on this subject. It is this which has led us to a certain dogmatism in this area, in relation to the conditions for access to pre-pension in particular. You will have to review your legislation and assessment criteria. It is a question of social justice and balance between efforts on both sides. I await your answer to this question. By the way, we'll talk when the time comes about everything that concerns the development of the salary standard. Here too, you are making a wrong choice for the future of our economy and social balances. It is another dogmatism that you maintain but probably with a short-sighted calculation. Third thought. I hear you're going to use all the legal instruments to try to push the giant Caterpillar back. Adherence to the law is a minimum and I therefore do not take this commitment for a particular kind of political success. Administrative and judicial authorities are required to enforce the law and to verify compliance with all conditions. But the truth is, we're going to have to change our laws for the future. The Renault law finally has a fairly meagre substance in terms of constraints. In fact, it was based on the belief that, thanks to periods of thought organised, it was possible to force a certain social dialogue within the company threatened by collective redundancies and that this might, sometimes, as was the case with VW, then Audi – with some success – to force a certain dialogue with the policies. But when corporate management obstinately refuses this dialogue, by taking refuge behind a pure formalism of procedures – which we will undoubtedly see, we will check; you may get a relaxation of a position that until now seems rigid, brutal and cynical – we need to know how to compel the party who refuses the dialogue to stand around the table to seek optimal solutions for the benefit of those who are threatened with collective dismissal. Otherwise, there is an imbalance in social relations that is not acceptable. Given the current circumstances, I acknowledge the great serenity of the workers and their union representatives – and I hope that this will be the case in the coming weeks. At the moment, there are no physical threats against the Belgian management, which I believe has not had much to say in this case – nor have certain other parts of the company. It is desirable that this serene climate continue. But he calls for a counterpart that is dialogue. We cannot call the serene climate without dialogue. That is indeed your task. I don't know if you'll have any Belgian or American interlocutors. I don't know if either company manager will come back to you. But it must be remembered that there is a tradition, both in our country and in Europe, to promote dialogue and to seek all the best solutions to maintain the tool if possible, to maintain part of the employment if possible, and to participate in a company which proposes to lay off from a plan of conversion. This is the social tradition in our country. This is the basis for trust between the social partners. I hope that there will be active support and support in the employers' federations concerned for a positive and constructive approach to the application of the Renault law, even though the management in the United States of Caterpillar may have little interest in the recommendations of the Belgian employers' federations. But in any case, I believe that we will not be able to avoid a reflection on the adaptation of the Renault law and the guarantee of a result of a social dialogue at the end of the organised procedures. Finally, like others, I would stress the need to treat the staff of all subcontracting companies on a strictly equal footing with Caterpillar staff, which may require creativity in terms of legislation and enforcement, so that there is no discrimination against these workers. In any case, these are the teachings. There would still be a lot to say. A word about the fact that this should inspire the government in its reflection on corporate tax reform. In short, what should we remember from all these episodes? It is that every time you do tailor-made in favour of a sector of activity or a type of enterprise, the custom-made is only worth a time. For good or bad reasons of economic conjuncture or economic motivation of the companies concerned – we can discuss it endlessly, but there are unfortunate cases of closure of businesses for proven economic difficulties – very quickly, these mechanisms prove to be temporary and do not support economic activity and job creation in a sustainable way. I believe that the simplification of the corporate tax system with a significantly reduced nominal rate must prevail over any maintenance of tax niches that have been created only to respond to a phenomenon that is ultimately often cyclical. This is a wide-ranging debate. We look forward to your proposals. We have already spoken. The legibility of the Belgian tax system is deplorable and is only to the advantage of those who know how to exploit its weaknesses, as evidenced by the number of laws of circumstance that are voted to systematically correct a derogatory tax system whose perversity is discovered – I am not a fiscalist of formation, but I am still doing legislative work for a long time. Honestly, we do not count the number of program laws that are used to adapt tax legislation – that is also true in social legislation – only in order to limit the perverse effects of laws that have been misthought. Perhaps it is time to return to a strong legibility of our tax system, especially in terms of corporate tax. A drastic simplification and continuity are needed. There will be no sustainable investment in our country unless there is a guarantee of great legal certainty in our tax system. That's what we probably have to work on. Some call for sacred union. I'll relativize that expression. Under the shock of emotion and anger, she is always strong. Today, I have already perceived more than nuances. There is no reason why a sort of sacred false union should be established, which would simply be an acceptance of fatality. What matters to us is that political decision-makers have the capacity to anticipate. All these events show us that, in the end, politics run behind choices that are often dictated abroad, trying to mitigate their consequences. It is no doubt the problem of Europe, which no longer has this political strength and vitality, even before it is economic, to impose its vision, its project and its ambition. It cannot be understood that a continent of five hundred million people, with the economic potential it represents, has become so amorphous – for this type of activity, because it is not necessary to generalize, as shown by very great European economic successes – in the face of what is decided elsewhere to its detriment. It is therefore a balance of political forces that must be re-established! With the Thatcherian conception of Europe, the conception of the diminished role of the State and the loss of State authority, this is what we are suffering today in the economic sector as well as in the public security sector, it is the disinvestment in relation to the role of the State that we are paying for today in our economic weaknesses. I am not for the confiscation of property and I smile when I hear that there is some sort of convergence to say "requisition of the tool". With what project? You'll have to explain it to me! As if we were going to requisition by paying a euro of compensation! One day we'll have to explain what that means! A requisition is an expropriation and it pays off. You pay for it if you have a project! If you don't have a project, it's better not to tell, in a kind of new common front, that there will be an expropriation because the PTB says that it's enough to expropriate to save the tool! I want to hear everything we want, but we have to stop giving birth...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-08-54-commissie-ic486x.u10	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-08-54-commissie-ic486x.u11	They will be very moved by the threat of the requisition! I respect the collective emotion. But I still smiled a little while reading Olivier Chastel's interview. I don't know if the PTB will give him a card of honor or not... let's go a little beyond the immediate emotion! Finally, the problem is to have a vision for the future in Europe. We know that industrial change is taking place in Europe. There is no point in denying it. Consider the great success of projects such as Airbus, Ariane, TGV. Today, what are the economic sectors, creating added value, jobs, technological ambition, which the European Union intends to support? This is the real debate. How is the European Union developing its colossal collective investment programmes? When we see that the United States is dreaming of going on March, where is our will to conquer the universe, to take this symbolism? Conquering the universe is not just going to see what is happening on other planets, but it is our ability to take dominant positions. Let's say the word. Does Europe still have the ambition to adopt dominant positions in certain areas of economic creation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-08-54-commissie-ic486x.u12	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister of Employment, I am not going to repeat the history of the social tragedy that struck Charleroi and a whole region last Friday. We can really talk about a black Friday with the 7,000 people who have been directly and indirectly affected by this financial logic that puts profit ahead of the human. As you said, you repeated the words: contempt, lack of humanity, cruelty to the workers, these men and women plunged into distress. But above all, what cowardice! It is also known that management is hiding behind some formalism and excuses to avoid accountability and to come and explain themselves to Parliament. We have therefore experienced a surreal situation since it is the trade union delegates that we are asking for accounts, that we are asking to analyse a situation when they themselves are waiting for explanations on the reasons that push a company like Caterpillar to close its doors. This is all the more intolerable, Prime Minister, if we recall the social earthquake of 2013, which had led to the dismissal of 1,665 people, 43% of Caterpillar's workforce, not to mention subcontractors. This is unacceptable in view of the sacrifices made by the workers since 2007 on the site to maintain this activity. The union delegates even said that they had accepted the unacceptable: greater flexibility, loss of recovery days, loss of wages and sacrifice of family life in favour of work on weekends. It is also inconceivable in view of the state aid and the tax advantages that Caterpillar has enjoyed, while the company earns $550 million in profits in the second quarter of 2016. Dividends are distributed to shareholders – they have increased further – and Charleroi's site is one of the most productive. To deal with this theft, the counting of workers, you repeated that your government's objective was: "Jobs, jobs, jobs!" What are you going to do to maintain them? You said you wanted to make contact. I would like more information in this regard. How are you going to prevent workers from being sacrificed so that shareholders get even more dividends? Are you going to fight on the European stage to block this tax and social shopping of multinationals who are still looking for the most favourable conditions for their policy of high dividends? I will of course not repeat the excellent analysis prepared by my colleague, who has asked a lot of questions, but I would like to supplement his speech by referring to the possible conversion of the site. Are you considering creating tax-free zones? Are you going to promote a different tax system for businesses that would like to settle in? According to trade unions, an investigation would be conducted in the United States into Caterpillar's unfair tax practices. Some speakers spoke of studies, but union sources speak well about investigations. What about Belgium? Will investigations also be carried out in order to ascertain the tax structures of this company? Prime Minister, I have heard you talk about the various investments and the dilemma between the ease to be given to companies to invest in Belgium and the possibility of some protection in order to avoid collective redundancies. We are not doing "multinational bashing" here, since the term is fashionable. Scandal behaviour and unfair collective dismissals should not be encouraged. Lessons must be learned from the past and from this tragedy to prevent this from happening. In this regard, I would like to return to the proposals put forward by the PS Group since 2004. We have drawn the consequences of the social tragedy of 2013 and we have tabled four or five bills to curb unfair collective redundancies, to prevent a company from carrying out collective redundancies when it is not recognized in difficulty and receives employment aid, to force the search for a contractor when the company is still viable. Our proposals were aimed at protecting employment and activity in the event of the closure of a viable business, to increase the protection of workers. Unfortunately, these texts have not received the necessary support in the last two years. That's a shame. We hear of sacred union, of unanimity, I ask you to take these texts into consideration. In your words, you said that you wanted to ensure full transparency, to obtain the reasons for this closure decision. It is obviously unacceptable that eight days before the announcement of the closure of the site, there is a corporate council where it is said that everything is well. At the time, we had tabled a text that provides for the right of alert, a text that makes it possible to make transparency and to have all the information necessary to deal with this kind of situation. It's really time to fight. I heard on Tuesday that we had to go on a crusade. Does sacred union mean going on a crusade, fighting? We have to take steps to go and fight in a crusade. Let us not be defeated by these multinationals! I often hear that there are questions about the political means of avoiding such outrageous practices. Of course, you have to change the system and you have the power to do so. The Socialist Group will support all the measures that you will take, which will grant workers more rights to avoid these social tragedies and which will take into account the lessons of the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-08-54-commissie-ic486x.u13	Mr President, Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would, of course, like to be the first Flemish speaker to give my full support to the affected staff and their families on behalf of our group. Moreover, it concerns not only Caterpillar itself, but also all subcontractors who will indirectly be affected by this decision. If I have just heard from my fellow Members, I would like to convey a message of hope. I think we should get rid of negativity, as well as all emotion and defeat. We must continue to hope that we can put something positive in the region of Charleroi to compensate for what is happening now. It is a good thing that the governments in this country, the federal government and the Walloon regional government, on the initiative of the Prime Minister, will be pulling one string to find solutions. I have also heard a number of political voices this afternoon which give me some concern in order to arrive effectively at the solutions needed to really help the families affected. When I gave a small anthology of what I heard this afternoon, that went from the nationalisation of a company's assets over heavy legal actions to the prohibition of closures. I do not think that these are the solutions we will need to attract investors from home or abroad for the region of Charleroi so that new jobs can be created there. This way the affected staff can find new jobs. Similar closures in the past, however emotionally difficult it may be, have already shown that we are not helping the affected workers with such solutions. This is not the way to attract investments in the long term. Let's see where we stand now. In their introduction, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Work have made it clear that there is now an intent to closure, an intent to collective redundancies. This was reported, in accordance with the Renault Act. We should not be defeatist about this. It's about an intention. The decision will have to be confirmed later, after a great deal of consultation and negotiations with the trade unions in the works council. The legal arsenal they have at their disposal is no less. I have heard Mr Hedebouw speak quite cynically about the Renault Act. Mr Hedebouw, the Renault Act is no laughing matter. It is a very serious procedure, with the least error having serious consequences for the employer. This means that the procedure must start again. There are also criminal sanctions on that mistake. I guess that law isn't funny. It is a procedure which must be taken seriously. In a very serious way, the works council should consult staff representatives on all types of alternatives that may be available for closure. It is also necessary to discuss all the proposals that could be made by the staff, to save employment and to find alternatives, in order to find possible purchasers for the site. Such consultations must be exhausted to the full and to the end. That's what the law says. That is why we must allow this consultation to take place. Politics cannot intervene, but must allow social dialogue to take place. The Renault Act is well drafted for this purpose and gives all the opportunities for that consultation. Moreover, this procedure of information and consultation within the Renault Act can only be concluded after all the questions and proposals of the staff have been examined and answered. Evidence of this will have to be provided. In larger restructurings, we find that this can take a very long time. It can take up to a year and sometimes even longer. After all, in principle and in theory, staff representatives can constantly submit new questions and proposals. So they have a lot of resources to do that. In the meantime, this also gives them the opportunity to negotiate a social plan. In many cases, this procedure is rightly used in the event of serious restructuring, so that the consequences of these restructurings can also be taken into account in a social plan. We must therefore have confidence in the trade unions, the staff representatives and the secretaries who will negotiate with Caterpillar in the works council. Luckily, Caterpillar isn't a company that's in bankruptcy. In fact, a solvent employer may be required to meet higher requirements than a company which is in bankruptcy. So let us first give this procedure every opportunity. There are a lot of opportunities for trade unions to go to extremes for staff. Our message would be, first of all, trying to save as much employment as possible. Secondly, if this were not possible, we would have a good social protection system, which would be a good social plan for all those affected and which would also have to be used for re-employment and guidance into employment. I would like to make one comment and make a suggestion to the Prime Minister and to the Minister of Work regarding their contacts with Caterpillar, who will be informal. The procedure within the Renault Act may take a long time. What this procedure sometimes shows, and what is also the purpose of a passage in the coalition agreement, is that workers are faced with a long period of uncertainty, namely the period during which the decision cannot yet be confirmed. In the meantime, some employees find a new job. It would be useful if the social dialogue in the company were to agree that those who leave for a new job would not be the victim, but could get their share of the package that would have been agreed in a social plan. We must ensure that the workers in the time that can go over it are not the victims if they find a new job. If they accept a new job, they should be able to enjoy the package being negotiated. It's a hit, but we have to go through. The Walloon region has all the advantages with Charleroi to build a new economic story with the people who are now affected. There is a demand for skilled and motivated workers, as currently employed at Caterpillar. Many companies are looking for it, but do not find skilled and motivated staff. On the site in that region, close to the airport, there are indeed opportunities to do business, to attract new investments. In this respect, the Minister of Work, as former Prime Minister, is particularly well placed, because he has in the past been confronted with similar situations in Ford Genk and in Antwerp. So Minister Peeters knows very well how this has been handled in Flanders in the past. With regard to Ford Genk, for example, we find that after two years, two thirds of the affected staff have effectively found another job. I'm not saying that all the problems for those people have been solved. Job loss is also associated with loss of identity, and that is not evident for those facing it. However, the change policy in Limburg delivers good results, and that region is heading in the right direction, which can compensate for the heavy shock. Our party is proposing to move in that direction. We have every sympathy for the emotion that is now alive. In the difficult times we must be there to support the staff and their families in all possible ways. At some point, however, the ratio will have to prevail and we will have to deal with this problem rationally. We must ensure a good economic breeding ground in order to be able to cope with this shock in a sensible way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-08-54-commissie-ic486x.u14	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your briefing. It may be useful to recall the decision taken at the Conference of Presidents earlier. On behalf of the Conference of Presidents, on behalf of the Speaker of the House, there will be a new rather urgent invitation to the management of Caterpillar to hear them explain themselves to Parliament. We received their explanation, which was not justified since the House services indicated that the Renault law gave them the opportunity to come to Parliament to have an exchange with us. It is therefore useful not to let go of the song. On the basis of this decision, all the groups agreed that we should recast this approach and that we should finally receive the explanations to which this Parliament is entitled. Prime Minister, this attitude is similar to what was experienced by you and the Walloon Minister-President. We did not want to give you information when there is a social, economic and human impact on our country. We do not come back from these attitudes and we will probably have to comment on them for a long time to come. These attitudes are worthy of Far-West! Prime Minister, I have read the interviews you gave about Caterpillar and I know you well enough to know that you weigh the words you use. You said you wanted us to fight Caterpillar. Today, you tell us that the arrangements are being made to analyse all the legal possibilities that would allow us, if possible, to sue Caterpillar before the courts. It is an extremely strong desire to ensure respect for workers and subcontractors who will more than likely all lose their jobs. You have also indicated that it is a matter of fully enforcing the Renault law for all 2,200 workers in Caterpillar, but also of ensuring, in these particular circumstances, that thousands of jobs are created among subcontractors. A lot of people talked about earthquakes. Often, an earthquake is limited locally. Mr Lachaert and some Flemish subcontractors will undoubtedly appreciate your intervention today. We realize that there are also many Flemish subcontractors who are affected by an earthquake, which obviously affects Charleroi, but which also affects the south of the country, the centre of the country and the north of the country. It may be useful to have additional information on the number of subcontractors affected by this decision in Flanders. We know, as the Prime Minister said, that the federal government is partnering with the Walloon government in the work to be done. Depending on the number of Flemish subcontractors, what about the attitude of the Flemish government? It may also wish to engage in the work we have to do together across the country. Prime Minister, you also have, as we are guaranteed by the rule of law, the right to truth and transparency. Compared to some of the elements that have already been highlighted, you may be able to tell us more about this decision taken by Caterpillar after 2013, when 1,400 workers had lost their jobs and the remaining workers have made great efforts in terms of flexibility and wages. Caterpillar's management told them it was to save the tool. They have therefore demonstrated a great sense of responsibility by sacrificing several advantages to save the tool. In 2016, Caterpillar management indicated that the targets set in 2013 had been met. Despite these efforts, see where we are! I will refer to other transparency requirements that I think it is useful to stress, but I will first open a parenthesis about another truth to which you have referred. The battle we wage against Caterpillar is not a confrontation with all multinationals, because we need it. You indicated that they included 40% of private employment. Recently, Walloon elected officials fought in the Borinage for multinationals to settle. They were right to do so, since we need this wealth creation. We must continue to be attractive to these companies, as we must continue to reject the social violence that some of these multinationals are capable of. Similarly, we must maintain policies that promote an open and export-oriented economy. We must avoid barriers to our exports. A balance must therefore be struck and the social violence to which we are subjected in this case must be rejected in an inviolable way. Another aspect that must be addressed is Caterpillar's strategy, which has deprived the Charleroi site of opening up the market to the Middle East and Africa by adopting particularly strict environmental standards, which have led to a reduction in orders. The question is whether our country, this region and the workers have not been deceived since 2013, if the future of the Gosselies site has not been sealed in 2013? This question needs to be clarified! Mrs. Fonck alluded to it and she's right. Let us restore the truth according to the elements that appeared in a report of the Central Council of the Economy. We are as competitive as the French and we are at their level. We have produced the policies that have enabled us to meet this competitiveness vis-à-vis the French neighbours. Mr President, at our last meeting it was said that it would have been more or less easy to produce collective redundancies today. Prime Minister, you alluded to it. Belgium has demonstrated that in the area of collective redundancies, it has developed a very complex modus operandi, which is highlighted in this very interesting OECD report. Again, the element highlighted by a number of information transmitted from the Caterpillar leadership does not convince us. During the upcoming meetings and during the discussions on the application of the Renault law, you will have the opportunity to obtain clarifications if the management of Caterpillar deigns to answer you and meet us in this parliament. In relation to the European question, we will no longer do enough without a more committed Europe in this area. Compared to Grenoble, Mrs Fonck was talking about rolling out the red carpet. Have the French authorities, at any time, conducted negotiations with Caterpillar to see the Grenoble site saved at Charleroi's expense? These elements deserve answers and ask questions at European level. I appreciated what seemed to me to be a commitment of the European Commission, in its President and in the head of Mrs Thyssen. We see, through a working group that has been announced, a willingness to commit to the situation in Caterpillar. In the context of what has happened, Mr Peeters referred to the situation in Limburg; we know that the European Union has been involved, that the social fund (the ERDF) has come to support conversion. What has been brought together under the closure fund has made it possible to convert and provide social assistance. In a very pragmatic way, we are waiting for a call for a contribution at European level, as you said, Prime Minister. But that will not be enough. We were aware a few days ago of the measures announced by the government and by Minister Borsus to combat social dumping. We are carrying out significant actions in Belgium and through the action of this government. But we must be helped at European level. A number of meetings have already been held, Prime Minister, on your initiative, with a number of voluntary countries. If we do not meet a number of objectives aimed at combating social dumping, against this social competition, we will continue to see workers undergoing new "Caterpillar".
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-08-54-commissie-ic486x.u15	Europe could hear federal and regional governments, from Belgium, mobilised to call for the necessary click. The MR Group is waiting for the government to make very concrete proposals at European level. Finally, I heard Mr.Maingain make a bit of humor – being from the region, I find it hard to do with it. Mr. Maingain, I thought you opened a subsidiary in Wallonia. I don't think you know the Charleroi region, even Gosselies. You should come there more often since if you knew it, you would fully consider the fact that for the redeployment to Charleroi level, the Caterpillar site is essential and central. Necessarily, we will have to find an economic activity at this site. This will be done through all possible legal channels to ensure that this economic conversion and redeployment take place. Prime Minister, I said from the front door that you are someone who measures his words. You talked about sacred union. You have certainly measured this point. I would like to reassure one or the other honourable Member that, in relation to such a situation, a sacred union takes place in the long term. Today, we are all in human support, beyond what we can produce politically, socially and economically. We are affected humanely by the fate of these workers and subcontractors. Numerous meetings are planned next week, from our ambassador to the United States, with the Walloon Region, with the unions and a platform bringing together the subcontractors, with a management that would have an exchange with the representatives of our governments. It is a matter of not dropping the pressure on the battle ahead and leading it to the end, to the conclusion. It will, of course – and I do not know if this will be the case – be necessary, through this committee, to continue to have exchanges with the government in order to be kept informed of the progress and work that you will be able to produce at the start of the federal government, with the region or regions as well as at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-08-54-commissie-ic486x.u16	Madam President, Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, in this committee and in the entire assembly, it is important to understand the emotions and frustrations of Caterpillar's employees and suppliers. This is a social tragedy, not only for themselves, but also for their families and circle of acquaintances. Some terminology used in committee today by a few fellow Members seems to me to be somewhat out of line. What is important is what has just been said, in particular that the decision has not yet been taken. It was said earlier that we must save what is to be saved, and our group fully supports it. It will not be obvious to turn back the clock, but we must go for any dismissal that we can prevent. Ladies and gentlemen, I am a little surprised that many of the members of the committee have ignored the division of powers currently in force in the country. The vast majority of the powers to respond to this social tragedy lie mainly at local, but above all regional, level. Think of the important economic powers of the regions, outplacement, target groups, social employment and so on. These are important areas of competence where an important input can be made to give the region a new dynamism and, where possible, to meet social needs. That is why, Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, I also call for a global approach. The consultation you have had with the regional government is a very good thing. There will also have to be consultation with Europe. So not a scenario where everyone within their area of competence tries to give the best of themselves, but a global, integrated approach that strengthens itself. That is the right course of action at the moment. The various authorities can indeed support workers in enforcing good closing conditions if the closure becomes inevitable. Then there will be hard negotiations, but hard negotiations and respectful negotiations can go hand in hand. Even after the application of the Renault Law, let us hope that this is not necessary, or limited, if that is perhaps an illusory hope, Caterpillar will remain an important employer in this country. We must not forget that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-08-54-commissie-ic486x.u17	An important suggestion seems to me, Prime Minister, that if Caterpillar disappears in Gosselies at least the industrial sites, which are indeed strategically located, will be made available to the Walloon Region so that they will have a new future. That's what we need to focus on. It has just been pointed out by a colleague that although we may be frustrated, angry and emotional, there is also a need for positivism in addition to this doom thinking. The lessons from Ford Genk show that more than one in two employees have found a job again. This is not enough, it may and must be more. These are sometimes jobs with loss of statute and less pay, but a job remains a job. We must not forget that especially 50-plussers are no longer in business after restructuring and re-employment. We must also focus on this, so that they too can have opportunities for employment. Ford Genk's file has learned that many small initiatives make a big one. Many employment projects can create a large employment project. I am talking about leverage projects, forward-looking projects. This morning it was argued for mobility of the talent active in Gosselies near Caterpillar. There is undoubtedly a lot of skilled and unskilled talent present with a great deal of goodwill. In fact, those involved have proved this in a respectable way in recent years. South West Flanders may be a little far from the region of Gosselies, Prime Minister, but Walloon Brabant, Brussels and Zaventem are within reach. A language border must certainly not be a wall, not a job destroyer, in a country like ours. All regional governments must also focus on this. I am in favour of what the then Flemish Government, with the support of the federal government, has done with dislocated zones and assisted areas. For me, in Hainaut, a support zone or a dislocated zone can perfectly come. Finally, Prime Minister, you signed a national investment pact with other governments this weekend. Regional and local authorities can also be important investors. In the coming weeks and months, you will make important decisions with the federal government. Therefore, I support reforms, but I also believe that we need to recognise that reforms must be job-oriented, deliver real economic growth and not just increase dividends. Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, you will undoubtedly be in contact with the Belgian management of the company, which is also a victim, and perhaps also with the foreign management. I think it is important to find out why not Grenoble but Gosselies are being closed down, after so many efforts by our country in recent years in the form of wage cuts, after so many efforts by the employees of the company. I believe that the workers, as well as your government, deserve that clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-08-54-commissie-ic486x.u18	I should now like to give the opportunity to those Members who did not put any questions to the floor. I have noted Mrs Demir, Mrs Kitir, and Mr Carcaci.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-08-54-commissie-ic486x.u19	Mr President, our French-speaking colleagues have already spoken extensively, but we are of course also interested in Wallonia. You may not believe it, but we also consider it important that Wallonia...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-08-54-commissie-ic486x.u20	That's good news.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-08-54-commissie-ic486x.u21	I would like to emphasise that every job that is lost is a blow to the face of all those families. Mr Prime Minister and Minister, we had a good conversation here on Tuesday with the trade unions of the company. Unfortunately, the board wasn't there. However, we had a lot of questions. It's the American board that made the decision. Prime Minister, you have spoken of a brutal decision. I said very clearly that I find the decision rude, especially since the company made a lot of profit internationally, $3.25 billion in 2015. In 2015, a record dividend of three dollars per share was also paid out. The company in Belgium was also healthy and profitable. What strikes me very strongly is that, as the Prime Minister said, they have been using time credits since 2014. There is also a very wide use of the theoretical-intelligence deduction. The European Coordination Centre has used all kinds of tax techniques. For example, on the basis of four million euros of profit, only 190 000 euros of taxes have been paid. I have the feeling that I think this is shared by the employees of the company that the company itself has benefited from, if I may use that word, from, among other things, the temporary unemployment scheme. Caterpillar America prepared that file very well. I do not think that is possible, I find that very, but very rude. I do not think that our country should attract multinationals in this way. In the end, they pressed a button in America and said that the factory would be closed here. We don't know why, the employees don't know that, nobody knows that. After making good use of all the tax tricks, after putting all employees on temporary unemployment since 2014, it has now been decided to say bye bye and to stop. There are many reflections on how to deal with the situation. I agree somewhat with Mr Verherstraeten that the Länder have a very important role to play in this. Since the intention has been expressed to close the factory, we must first see if we can't save a small part of the furniture. The company invests very strongly in innovation and development. Can't we get that part to Wallonia? Minister Peeters co-created SALK. As was said here, that model works. It works in Limburg, for the Ford workers in Genk. That's why I think the Walloon government needs to figure out some kind of SALK. At the same time, what we can do must also be examined at federal level. The government must continue the work it is doing, namely job creation. Thanks to the pay cut, jobs are added. We therefore need to reduce wage costs even further. Furthermore, we need to reform the 1996 law; we need to go further along that road. On the other hand, we must not rely on anyone in China or the United States who decides whether to close or not, while at first they have used all kinds of subsidies and exceptions in our tax legislation, as we have seen with Ford Genk. Prime Minister, you have rightly stressed the need to reform corporate taxation in order to create an attractive business environment in this country. In addition to labour costs, I believe that the labour market must also be reformed. In the next few days, you'll probably still be in contact with Caterpillar. A social plan will be drawn up. However, I also believe that Caterpillar should take responsibility and make available budgets and resources to retrain the workers. I've heard here about bridge pension schemes. Minister Peeters has shown us slides in that connection. Well, I do not think that we should accept this bridge pension system. After all, I do not think that we are helping the workers. We have reformed the system, and Mr Maingain is no longer present, and this has not been done in a revolutionary way, but the age limit is being raised as a criterion at a calm pace. I'd like to stress that there are jobs and there are more jobs. The Planning Bureau and the National Bank have already calculated this several times. So we must do everything we can to give the workers concerned a new job. I think that Caterpillar should at least not send the invoice back to the taxpayer if it looks in the mirror. If you have a bridge pension, you will. The responsibility must therefore be taken into account. The employees need to be escorted to a decent job. That concludes my speech, because we discussed it very extensively last Tuesday.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-08-54-commissie-ic486x.u22	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, allow me to begin, as I started last Tuesday, by expressing my condolences and wishing much courage to the Caterpillar workers, who are now very insecure. I would like to thank you all for taking the time to debate a very difficult subject with us today. Perhaps we can be allies when it comes to job creation and job retention. Caterpillar's board has shown itself from a different angle. The management has not had the guts, and that is perhaps what I also have to say to Minister Peeters, who has a feeling of déjà vu. Multinationals make tough decisions with major consequences for workers, but ultimately they do not have the guts and dare not say so in the face of the workers who are the victims of these decisions. Prime Minister, Minister, I would therefore like to thank you for being here. I would also like to thank you for the following. I'm glad to hear you're not gonna drop the subcontractors from the start. All attention is now rightly focused on Caterpillar, but many other workers will be indirectly affected or live indirectly in great uncertainty and uncertainty. I'm glad you won't abandon those people from the start. It is important to include them in the procedure from the outset. Let me start with the present reality. The employees don't understand, frankly, anymore. Prime Minister, I would like to take you into a hypothesis. Imagine you've been an employee of Caterpillar for 25 years. In 2013 you will be faced with a restructuring in your company. You must say goodbye to 1 000 fellow Members. More flexibility is required from you. You're going along with that because you like to do your job and because you don't want to be unemployed. You are taking part in flexibility so that productivity is so high that the cost of machinery is lower than in China. So you're doing the best you can. You will then be faced with a new government, which will impose a stricter wage standard on you. You deliver 2% by index jump, because the current government suggests that this surrender is necessary in order to be competitive against neighbouring countries in the Netherlands, Germany and France. Your company is doing well, it's making a profit and paying dividends. And then, in September 2016, you will be informed that your company intends to close down. Prime Minister, you will understand that the employee is not happy anymore, because the company wants to move to France. The employee will not be made that decision. It is important that we remove this uncertainty as soon as possible. However, I also know from experience that consultation will primarily take place at company level. This will have to be done between the social partners and the employer. I understand from the trade unions on Tuesday that they have not had a real interlocutor during the first 48 hours. To be honest, the local management is not the partner they should be talking to and negotiating with. So, Prime Minister, Minister, I hope that you will put pressure on them so that they can have a worthy interlocutor as soon as possible to sit at the table and explain what is happening. I listened to you today. Prime Minister, you have said a lot. First of all, you have stated that you will respect the Renault Act. I won't repeat everything. I know that law I've been through from close by. That legislation exists, but it is not conclusive. At the moment, there is the declaration of intent to close the factory. You have also said that you cannot believe that the workers in our country are the least protected. You think it is important that investments are made and you are going to push to get more investments. At the same time, you do not want to introduce too many rules, because that would be a brake on the investments that would be made. The workers in our country do not feel protected, Prime Minister. You quoted the OECD report and said that our employees are the best ones. They come out best on the financial front. If a multinational wants to take a decision, it looks not only at Belgium's legislation, but also at the European level. Unfortunately, if you want to fire an employee in Belgium and pay a redundancy bonus, you will be rid of it. The employees are financially protected, but not legally protected. The workers are asking for legal protection. The previous government has already taken a first step by aligning the termination payments between workers and servants, which means that the worker is already somewhat more protected. I would urge you to consider how we can ensure that our employees are better protected legally, so that they are not always the victims of large multinationals. Secondly, I am pleased to hear that you wish to provide a mediator. This is important. I do not agree with Mr Verherstraeten when he says that there are a lot of powers in the region. It is now very important to join forces. There are indeed a lot of powers in the regions, but federally we can play a major role in terms of reductions in charges, RSZ rebates or in order to sit around the table with the management to see if alternatives can be worked out. It has rightly been said that it is an intention to close and that the closure is not yet there. You can do more than just put a social mediator to work. The trade unions would be very helpful if you could identify experts to look at the factory together with them and examine what alternatives can be put on the table to save jobs if necessary. I really think we should take advantage of that opportunity. I said that to the social partners on Tuesday. I really think that we should not accept the announcement of closure and move on to a social plan. Minister Peeters has explained a little here what the possibilities are. I should really start with the first phase, we should see if there are any options to save the factory, and see if there are any alternatives. Then it is not only a social mediator that is needed, but also an expert at the table. The federal level can play an important role in this. Thirdly, for my last appeal, I am looking at you, Prime Minister. The workers are really tired of shopping with them at European level. There will soon be a European summit and I would really like to ask you, instead of merely joining forces, to see how we can maintain our industrial policy, to call at European level for a stop to shopping with our employees. After all, at the end of the journey, they are the victims. As long as we do not introduce regulations at European level, these multinationals will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-08-54-commissie-ic486x.u23	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, the case of Caterpillar is a real social earthquake, a human tragedy for this region of Charleroi that has already been affected economically. I believe that all assumptions must be considered in order to save these thousands of direct and indirect jobs. However, this unfortunate case is not unique. Today, AXA and CP Bourg are also in a restructuring phase. Yesterday it was Arcelor-Mittal and each time it was workers who were subjected to these economic aggressions. This is therefore a finding of failure. It's time to completely change our vision. Today we are in the 21st century and we are in an economy on a European or even a global scale, with all its advantages but also all the disadvantages, and especially the drifts such as social and tax dumping. We are applying methods that no longer work, neither to attract investors nor to keep large companies that generate jobs. There is an urgent need to rethink taxation as a whole. Aid and subsidies of all kinds have shown their limits, as well as notional interests. All these tax niches, from which to the maximum benefit multinationals and very few our SMEs and even our very small enterprises, are no longer attractive in the long term for companies that create sustainable and high-quality jobs. In Wallonia, this finding is even more overwhelming. We are drowned under plans and projects that do not work, no matter what some say. Activa, Win-Win, job transition or other causes only precarious employment. Prime Minister, Minister, we must remove all these direct and indirect financial benefits and recreate a simpler attractiveness, but not only for the benefit of multinationals, but also for our SMEs, TPEs and self-employed. At the moment, we are unable to promote the optimal conditions in the spirit of undertaking by means of super complex legislation, by means of terrible administrative constraints for our small and medium-sized enterprises, while sometimes they have an urgent need for fresh air. On the other hand, we are a market economy where large companies make huge profits, but that is the strict logic of profit. We must protect our workers, who also generate this wealth. What lessons will we try to give in the future to Apple, AB-Inbev or Carrefour? We must therefore put in place a mechanism focused on locally rooted entrepreneurship. Flanders is rich in these SMEs. To do this, we have no alternative but to reduce the tax on all companies, including small ones, to lower the cost of work and also lower the tax on workers so as to give them greater purchasing power. Not to mention also making access to credit easier for SMEs, TPEs and self-employed people. It will be imperative to limit the expenses and stop putting forward the assistance as in Wallonia, where it is clear that the recipe no longer takes and that the sauce has even a sour taste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-08-54-commissie-ic486x.u24	This concludes the first round of interventions by the groups present. Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, we have gone a little past the time originally set, but I must say that colleagues had a lot on their hearts. They had a lot to say, a lot of questions. There is a high density in the content. Prime Minister, I give you the floor immediately for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-08-54-commissie-ic486x.u25	Mr President, I would of course like to thank all the speakers, who have provided their comments and analyses, and I welcome the tone of this debate. Indeed, I believe that we owe it to the workers to show the necessary dignity. From the outset, I confirm that I plead for a sacred union. As we have seen, this does not obliterate the differences – we are in democracy – in terms of political convictions and solutions to achieve a common objective, namely to strengthen our economic situation and employment in order to better finance our social protections. I will now respond to the various points raised. First of all, yes, we are in the first phase of the Renault law. We must therefore respect the order of the steps. This provision is about twenty years old. Whatever its weaknesses, it certainly has the merit of giving a chance to obtain quality information to analyze the possibility of maintaining an industrial activity on the site. It also allows for the examination of possibilities and gives technical, financial and accounting instruments to trade unions and, where appropriate, even to the government. Thus, the impact is limited, while a prospect of maintaining industrial activity is offered. As I said in my speech, as well as many of you, we must make every effort with the unions and the Walloon Region to preserve an industrial activity on the site. I would like to answer another question from the outset. The government agreement envisages the evaluation as well as a reform of the Renault law. I want to be very clear on that. We have indeed opened a door in the coalition agreement for an evaluation of the Renault Act after 20 years, but clearly with a balanced approach. It was certainly not intended to go in one direction without a balanced approach. More specifically, a few months ago, in the context of the social dialogue, we proposed at a meeting of the nuclear cabinet with the social partners in tempero non-suspecto that the social partners themselves should carry out an evaluation of the Renault Act. Our intention was to tackle the Renault Act in a balanced manner and certainly not to go in one direction. Mr Lachaert has set an example of the fact that, in some circumstances, there are also disadvantages for workers. We must also take account of this reality. The first point, therefore, is the Renault law. Secondly, I would like to clarify the legal approach and the reasoning I have expressed on this subject. Of course, we will mobilise all the legal expertise, which is within the FOD Emploi, which, together with all the inspectors and experts, is already mobilizing in coordination with the Walloon Region to fuel the legal reflection. But in addition to this, in full cooperation with the experts of the Employment Department, we launched a public procurement procedure immediately, starting on Friday. We can go fast when we consider it useful and necessary. Normally, tomorrow, the contract could be awarded because obviously, there is an urgent need to be able to mobilize expertise. What is it? Mrs. Fonck said it very well. It's an analysis of all the potential flaws. Mrs Fonck has given a number of examples on which we are actually going to work. You talked about the cross-border situation, about internal subcontractors. We will examine, point by point, in collaboration with the Walloon Region, what are the subjects on which we need legal expertise, first of all the department, and if necessary, if useful, complement with a selected law firm. Another very clear point, Mr Peeters said very quickly too... Unfortunately, we have had a similar experience with Ford Genk. We know that the situation of suppliers and suppliers is particularly delicate and can become very problematic very quickly. Moreover, the criteria of the Renault Act cannot necessarily be applied in any SME that may be in difficulty after Caterpillar's decision. I asked the Minister for SMEs, Willy Borsus, to make concrete proposals for SMEs. Following the tragic attacks in March, we have taken exceptional initiatives. We shall see what is possible to provide an answer to that. However, I want to be clear. We pay particular attention to the situation of suppliers and suppliers. We will do everything possible to take account of the difficult situation of many subcontractors, suppliers or suppliers. I have received many questions from Mr Massin, for example, about the coordination of concrete initiatives by both the regional and the federal levels. In recent days, the Walloon Government has drawn up an exhaustive list of suppliers. We will not repeat that work. We will work with the Walloon Government to make the best decisions. I repeat, next week will be busy. That makes sense, because we have to formulate the best answer. Earlier this week, there will be contacts in the United States between our diplomatic representatives. In the middle of the week, management representatives will be present in Belgium and we will coordinate with the Walloon Region on how to conduct all contacts. We will meet on Monday – this will be an opportunity to take stock of the progress of the Renault procedure – representatives of the Caterpillar workers as well as the platform we have suggested to set up to represent subcontractors, to show that we want to take the situation of subcontractors into account at the outset. I also want to tell you, as far as the European Union is concerned, that I will be present – this is a coincidence of the calendar – in Berlin tomorrow to prepare for the Bratislava summit. I do not go back to the solidarity funds that can be activated or that will have to be activated at European level. I also do not go back to what I have said about the lack of sufficiently strong ambition at European level in terms of industrial strategy. There is a first objective that we must try to meet. This is to deepen economic and monetary union. We are in a situation where there is a common currency but almost as many economic policies as there are in the euro area. I hope – Europe has sometimes worked like this – that the post-Brexit debate will be an opportunity to strengthen the deepening of economic and monetary union. The various Belgian governments, for a long time, have always been on the side of those who advocated the strengthening of economic and monetary union. This is a discussion that we will have in Berlin tomorrow, for example. I will put this item on the agenda. I will also put the broader issue of industrial strategy on the agenda. However, let us not be naive, an excellent question was asked by Mrs Fonck: have there been any contacts with France? Are we informed of any contacts that the French government would have had with Caterpillar? I have little information about this right now. That's an issue for me. So I asked for an appointment with the French President to address this issue. We want clarity in relation to that. What is the reality when it comes to industrial policy? There are statements on the heart, and then a few countries, a little larger, within the European Union, may be reluctant to work together for an industrial strategy. These countries consider, in my view, a short-sighted view, that they must first be representatives of trade in their own industrial sector, without having the concern of the whole of Europe's ambition in this area. On Europe, Mr Olivier Maingain has made some comments which I share. I agree with what Mr Maingain said. It must not be our intention to organise a new form of protectionism. Belgium is a small country in the heart of Europe. The whole of our well-being, our prosperity, is not the result of what we produce, but of our ability to forge international economic alliances; for example, our exports play an important role in our prosperity. In my opinion, the debate is not about protectionism, but rather about rules that apply to everyone. The question of Chinese steel is a good example. Kris Peeters regularly pushed the issue to the European Council. We've been systematically relaying the file. But it is true that we need less naivety at the European level and more capacity in Europe – provided we speak with one voice – to have equal discussions on economic rules with other major economies in the world, such as the United States, emerging economies or China. I am not going to open the debate here on whether China is a market economy. However, I would point out that in a few weeks or months, in principle before the end of the year, the European Commission will have to make proposals. A debate will take place with a lot of involvement. These are issues for which a clear analysis of the situation is needed. I heard a comparison with the situation of VW Forest and Audi. I would like to talk about this example. This is a situation where, unlike what happened with Caterpillar, a little over a year ago, a multinational approached government, federal and regional authorities, explaining its situation and potential difficulties. It is true that with the unions, we have looked at how to organize a stability, especially fiscal stability, which anchors an investment in our own country. This has also been done in competition with other European countries with interesting assets. We did it because there was a dialogue between a government and a multinational. We didn't succeed because we announced that we were going to double or triple taxes and charges on this multinational. Let us be lucid and realistic! I would like to stress one more time that the decision in Caterpillar's Charleroi also opens up a reality. We must be aware that every country, including Belgium, is not trying to attract economic sectors and investment. Belgium does, but so do the other European or non-European countries. However, I note that if a country wants to attract a company or investment, it is useful and necessary to defend its fiscal attractiveness. I am responding, Mrs Özen, to the proposals you have made. The constraint is that the decisions we want to make, which have the legitimate and generous purpose of maintaining employment at home (a goal that we can all share), become barriers that slow down or make it difficult to attract investment. We all have to ask ourselves: how can we encounter this contradiction, so that investments in Belgium are lasting and not limited to a few years, but that there is a lasting anchor in us. This is a real question, to which we must try to provide the most credible answers possible. It also seems to me to be very important. Finally, I would like to respond to a number of more specific points. I am thinking of Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, who asked a few more specific questions. I have responded in part to certain points. I do believe that, together with the Walloon Region, we must try to prevent the company from being de facto emptied. This will obviously be one of the points of the discussion we are going to have with the Walloon Region. The investment plan. We will of course have the opportunity to come back to this issue in the parliamentary debates. But the very essence of the investment plan is to see how we can, in coordination with the regional authorities, make choices in terms of strategic investments that are good for growth and economic development. The dialogue has already started with the federated entities and will intensify. This will be an opportunity to identify, including in the Charleroi region affected by this tragedy, how we can, through a revival and through an investment pact, support positive approaches to employment and growth. As far as subcontractors are concerned, I replied. Mrs Catherine Fonck raised a question that I find legitimate. I think she understood why Mr Kris Peeters and I responded in this way. I understand that we are being questioned socially. It is legitimate for parliamentarians and workers to ask us what is going to happen at the social level, to tell us that uncertainty is causing anxiety. But it's still an extraordinary paradox. On the one hand, we are told that we make too many tax gifts to multinationals. And you ask us, even before the social negotiations have started, that the Belgian government already make a gift to lower the social bill for Caterpillar. In the context of negotiations with a multinational company, this does not seem to me to be very serious. I have expressed my conviction on this subject. We are not going to put the debate under the carpet. We will have this debate and dialogue with the trade union organisations and with the various politicians concerned. But I believe that this debate should not take place now, during the information phase, when we want to have levers to convince us to maintain an industrial activity on the site. That is why the Renault law provides for a phase 1 and a phase 2. We're still in phase one. I would like to conclude on the issue of free zones, addressed by Mrs Özen. In the past, this type of solution has been considered. I have already had a conversation with the Walloon Minister-President on this issue, and we are going to deepen it to consider how we can activate a number of levers. Everyone, with his words, with his temperament, with his character, is in shock. But this must not prevent us from keeping our heads cold and remaining fully mobilized to try to give industrial perspectives on the site, to try to save as much as possible the jobs that can be saved, to be at the side of those who cannot be saved. It is in this spirit that we will be fully mobilized. It goes without saying that the government will remain available for Parliament to regularly review how we are acting, day after day, week after week, as much as possible with the Walloon government, as we have begun to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-08-54-commissie-ic486x.u26	I believe that the Prime Minister's speech was quite complete. I would like to thank everyone for the proposals that we will examine in greater detail. Unfortunately, the dossier has a high level of déjà vu, given the Ford and Opel files of the past; we now need to deal with the issues on the basis of them and organise them very efficiently. The Prime Minister has already provided answers regarding pre-pension. Mr Massin, I have noted your questions on this. You also stressed the importance of subcontractors. You are right, we must also find solutions for these workers. We are now in phase one. It is important to stress once again that the responsibility to close the debates lies with the employer. There are two possibilities: either there is an agreement with the trade union representatives or the works council to conclude phase 1, or no agreement is reached, and in that case the representatives of the workers have the opportunity to make that point, I would like to stress, to bring proceedings before the labour court. There are therefore different possibilities, but we are not yet there. We have all stressed the importance of the alternatives and of the discussions in phase 1. Mrs Fonck, I have noted the other measures you have mentioned, such as the European directives. I will ask the SPF to legally verify the possibility of using it. When an application is made, we are ready to send a social mediator. Normally, it is provided for in Phase 2, but we have absolutely no problem sending one if the workers are seeking it. The Prime Minister has already replied to the questions on the Renault Act. The aim is to improve that law on the ground and in its application to increase legal certainty for workers and certainly not to make it an empty box. That was also underlined. We have tried to provide information such as the Prime Minister. We are ready to consider any other questions you have asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-08-54-commissie-ic486x.u27	Of course, there were many elements. Not everyone has received all the desired or expected answers. I will give the floor to the colleagues for a reply. But as much as you have had time to speak in the first speech, so much now we must be more limiting because there are still about ten speakers. We cannot speak, all of us, fifteen minutes, that is not possible. The Prime Minister has a commitment in the next thirty minutes. We must take this into account. I will ask everyone who wishes to speak for two minutes, in the form of a conclusion, and in the order of the speeches.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-08-54-commissie-ic486x.u28	Mr President, Mrs Özlem Özen will not speak. I won't even use the four minutes. I'm gonna be very quick. I can understand that we do not have all the answers today. That makes sense to me. But I believe that some elements must be taken into account even if there is no answer. I understand the legal remedies. You have forgotten that I said that your party president, here in the House, has prompted the unions to bring an action for the appointment of an agent under the company continuity legislation. I told you to try to extend the mission of your law firm to this case, to provide legal certainty. Because if that weren't possible, I wouldn't find it right to lie to trade union organizations. It is absolutely necessary to have this verified, because the opinions are contradictory. It's really fundamental. On expropriation, we also want secure procedures if they are started. It seems to me that the credibility of everyone, including the governments that would start this procedure, is at stake. I think there's a big misunderstanding. My colleague is talking about constructive bills. Among other things, there is a proposal for a law on the protection of workers, which does not prevent restructuring or dismissal. It is not a question of putting obstacles to it. There is a fundamental one, which fully corresponds to the situation in Caterpillar. It is intended to prohibit collective redundancies of stock exchanges. This is what Caterpillar's financial director himself said when he came to announce the dismissals and closure of the company in Belgium. I think these are debates that we should have. You mustn't sweep them with a back of your hand. Prime Minister, I told you that I understand that not all cards are shot down directly. Beyond that, I believe that the most important thing here is not to give Caterpillar a tax gift, but to give workers a safety net. I told you that the ones you have to reassure are the workers, Caterpillar or subcontractors. I will conclude by telling you that commitments must be made to them. We talked about the situation of Ford Genk. I do not ask, unlike others, that you make a formal commitment to us here, but you will take it when you meet the trade union delegations. It is to them that you must bring these guarantees. It's at the foot of the wall that we see the mason. That's what they'll judge you on.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-08-54-commissie-ic486x.u29	Mr. President, thank you. Thank you to the Prime Minister and the Minister for their answers. We're not going to start the whole debate again in the reply. In the coming days and weeks, the stakes will be to see what can be done to maintain industrial activity on the site. The debate on what to do in three, four or five years can be held in a month or two. First we have to decide what we're going to do now. I heard leads in the press this morning on how to put the balance of forces in place. I hope that the lawyers that the federal state is going to hire will be boosted to get everything that can be done in the context of this balance of forces. Since in the law, it is always possible to find all the arguments not to lead a fight. I have also given arguments to show that there is a way to continue this fight. The public interest must take precedence over the private interest of a small group. It is the role of the State to assist in the establishment of this balance of forces. With regard to conversion plans, on which we will again have the opportunity to debate, I do not have the same reading on the great successes in this area, including in Limburg, where it is supposedly successful. The debate is still about the quality of jobs that have replaced stable jobs. We know that 30 hours of work is enough to be considered, in statistics, as having returned to work. Many of these workers have found hyper-flexible and precarious work. That's not how we build the future of the Regions. We need reliable statistics to know what a successful conversion is. There is a great deal of focus on the workers of the company who are returning to work, but in all the companies that now report taking back workers from Caterpillar, these are places that could have been taken by young people who did not work in Caterpillar. Communicating vases are not a real conversion. Prime Minister, we don't always agree, but this weekend, you said we were touching the limits of the system. Now we're in agreement. That's why we need to change it. You keep playing in the rules of this system and that's why we're going down to an infernal spiral. Get out of this economic system! Out of this vision, aid to businesses will help to revive the economy. We're touching the limits of the system, you're right. Go further. Draw the political conclusions and I am sure that we will have an exciting debate in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-08-54-commissie-ic486x.u30	Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, I thank you for these calm and high-quality exchanges. The important thing, of course, is not our present discussions, but the situation on the ground. I think that each other will invest all their energy in it. It doesn't matter that you didn't answer all the questions, which were quite numerous. That said, there is a point that directly affects all citizens. I want to talk about the public money that we continue to pay to Caterpillar today. I am thinking in particular of the shocking example I mentioned earlier. During the negotiations and the procedure of the Renault law, will we still pay Caterpillar money to finance economic unemployment? I would like the government to look at this issue from a legal point of view. This aspect of the file is really shocking in view of the situation of the workers and the way in which, as you said yourself, dismissals and the transfer of activities to Grenoble were decided. I will end with a wish. I would like governments to work together, especially alongside workers, to help them at their best and to save everything that can be done. It is important to build together the future of each of them, the Gosselies company and subcontractors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-08-54-commissie-ic486x.u31	Prime Minister, I have heard that you are at the disposal of Parliament to come and take stock regularly, but I am still hungry today. Compared to the seven acts I requested, the first was a withdrawal of the provision contained in your government statement. You say, "We put him in the hands of the social partners." Unfortunately, we know what that means, there are precedents. Ever since you were Prime Minister, discussions have been in the hands of the social partners, but the government has remained on its line and is moving in the direction it had already imagined. On this part, I was waiting for a strong act, we don't have it! As far as stabilization is concerned, you say that you are in discussion with the Walloon government. You're watching to avoid further leaks; computer services have been mentioned. I'm willing to believe you. I would have liked you to be more precise, particularly with regard to the track mentioned by the president of your party. Should I understand your silence as disapproval? You will certainly tell us later. You say that you pay particular attention to subcontractors. I take note of that. We will follow this carefully in the next steps. For the parallel to the commitments that could have been made at Ford Genk, I find that your signal is relatively weak. We could expect something clearer from you, but we could not be as precise. Again, we will see what is happening in the next steps. On the other hand, I note more positively what you said about investment. You mentioned the Charleroi region, which needs it. I'll join you on this one. Unless you're wrong, you didn't say anything about the study I asked you to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-08-54-commissie-ic486x.u32	Mr Nollet, I refer you to the program law last July. The need for transparency on transfer pricing is a real issue. The OECD is concerned about this situation, and that is a good thing. Without waiting for the drama of Caterpillar, the government has reinforced this obligation, through the above-mentioned programme law, to place it on a more solid legal basis and, possibly, to correct the benefit if it appears that the transfer price does not reflect reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-08-54-commissie-ic486x.u33	This recent arrangement is positive. Can I suggest you order a study to find out the application in the Caterpillar folder? That was the subject of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-08-54-commissie-ic486x.u34	You were talking about Caterpillar? Yeah, I totally agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-08-54-commissie-ic486x.u35	Thank you. In this way, we will be able to examine the results here. I am not going to put the question back to the minister now, since we still have a third item on the agenda, but I will therefore act that we will receive the study.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-08-54-commissie-ic486x.u36	I will ask the Minister of Finance to produce the document.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-08-54-commissie-ic486x.u37	Prime Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-08-54-commissie-ic486x.u38	Mr President, I would like to thank the ministers for their constructive answers. I am pleased that you will take our proposals to heart and examine them. With regard to the evaluation of the Renault Act, I would like to remind you that after the closure of Ford Genk in the Social Affairs Committee in 2013, we held a lot of hearings. I'd like to warn you not to do the work twice. The hearings at the time could be a useful basis. We heard a lot of experts at the time, and we also received a lot of proposals to improve the Renault Act. Once the procedure of the Renault Act has arrived, however, it is usually too late. This means that there is a problem. I think it would be useful to look at the Renault Act and how we can strengthen the powers of the representatives of the works councils so that they can take preventive measures even before the Renault Act procedure is launched. I am convinced that this is not the last time we will talk about Caterpillar. Work's just beginning. I wish you much strength and courage. Above all, I hope that you will make the best of it and keep all the slopes open. I really want to emphasize this last point!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-08-54-commissie-ic486x.u39	Mr Prime Minister, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before thanking you, I would like, if I may, to draw two concrete points of conclusion. Mr Prime Minister, in your first speech you spoke of the protection of workers in Belgium in comparison to those of neighbouring countries or European countries, and you called for a kind of benchmarking to be able to analyse legislation and protections. We are talking about collective redundancies. I believe that this is an area on which government and parliament can work on our respective committees. Several colleagues would be asking for an objective analysis of the situation in order to consider possible strengthening of certain legislation. As far as the Renault law is concerned, the government agreement has been mentioned. You want a balanced approach. When we read the word "modernize", we are a little afraid because it does not always go in the direction of workers' rights. If, on the occasion of the dialogue with the social partners, you can have an exchange that will improve the Renault law and the right to information for workers, it will be a good thing. We would also participate in this work. Colleagues, I thank the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister for their participation in this substantive debate.
