ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic436x.u1	Two combined questions have been added, but I suppose those questions from Mrs Smaers and Mr Vanden Burre were included in the exchange of views. A record will be made of this exchange. I propose, minister, that you tell us more about your plans. I think you issued a press release some time ago and there was one or the other article in the press, but you may be able to give us more or a document at the end of your presentation so that members have more material on this subject. I am pleased to give you the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic436x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, beste collega's, this is indeed an important subject which feeds the news very frequently and in a very legitimate way. The main aim of this statement is to take stock of the social dumping situation in Belgium and of the government's fight against it. The free movement of goods and workers is an acquired right within the European Union. However, there are guidelines and rules that must be respected. These are first translated at international and European level into European regulations and directives, including on social security, public contracts or wages, supplemented by the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. At national level, they are translated into Belgian legal and regulatory provisions and into protocols to combat social dumping in the construction, taxi, cleaning and transport sectors. These have been completed or are in the final phase. Despite all these rules, Belgium is the European country which is relatively hardest hit by social dumping. Let me give you some figures on the situation. Belgium has the highest rate of posted workers, 3.6 % of the labour force. The total labour force in Belgium is 4.5 million workers. The European average is 0,7%. The number of A1 forms dedicating the secondment of a worker from a country in the European Union or the European Economic Area to ours and in the other direction in 2014 was 159,753 in Belgium. In addition, 58.2% of these procedures are issued in the construction sector. Belgium receives 11% of all European countries' posted workers. In terms of comparison, Belgium increased its number of posting procedures for employed workers in its territory by 76.4% between 2010 and 2014. To sum up, I'll give you a few figures. First of all, 3.6% of the employed labour force in our country is on secondment. The European average is 0.7%. Subsequently, out of 159,750 proceedings in 2014, 58 % concerned the construction sector. Belgium receives 11% of the total number of secondees from countries in the European area. Finally, between 2010 and 2014, Belgium increased its rate of employed workers by 76.4%. These figures clearly show the magnitude of the phenomenon we are facing. Of course, I will not fail to send them to you in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic436x.u3	Mr. Minister, Mr. de Lamotte wishes to receive the document.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic436x.u4	Minister, these figures are hard to grasp when it comes to theft. A report will be drawn up, but can we have your note?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic436x.u5	We will distribute it while the minister continues his presentation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic436x.u6	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic436x.u7	All right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic436x.u8	In the meantime, I will give you these very illuminating figures. In this context, we must note that fraud and dumping are extensive. Many posted persons have been wrongly declared to a foreign social security scheme and/or are paid under the statutory minimum minimum rate provided for benefits carried out in Belgium. This fraud affects both companies which lose contracts because they are victims of unfair competition and, of course, those who lose work or do not find work because the places are allocated to foreign subcontractors. Today, the construction sector is facing a crisis of unprecedented gravity, particularly for the years 2013 and 2014. During the latter, 13,220 jobs have been lost by the sector, and 81% of construction companies estimate that they have lost at least one market to a foreign company. If the situation is not quickly controlled, more than 16,000 jobs will be lost in the sector over the next three years. The government is well aware of this major crisis and has put in place a series of provisions that I am going to talk to you about. It also provided, in Article 27 of the Tax Shift Act of December 2015, for a specific shift tax to be carried out for the construction sector in order to allow for a specific reduction in employers' contributions for the construction sector before 2018. The aim is therefore to reduce the burden and the difference in the burden between the staff employed in Belgium under Belgian legislation and the posted worker. Moreover, without waiting for these provisions, we must be able to question the work of the inspection services. Currently, these services face a difficult environment. The main four difficulties facing inspection services today are the following. There is an inadequate number of checks. Rechecks are very difficult due to the lack of staff. For the whole of Belgium, only 71 inspectors have been specifically assigned to the cells specialised in social dumping, while we have more than 150 000 A1 documents. There is a lack of coordination and exchange of information between the inspection services concerned. The control does not cause fear, as the sanctions are rarely recovered, the sanctions are light and the arsenal of coercive measures, such as batter and seal, is rarely used. In order to eliminate this situation, we are proposing strong measures to control fraud and the repression of established fraud. The measures are also part of the coalition agreement, which provides as follows: We must ensure that employees and self-employed persons are no longer employed without respect for labour and social security law and countering the disloyal competition in respect of bona fide companies. The fact that there are still too many forms of unfair competition which lead to distortion of the market and competition. The negative impact of this unfair competition on the viability of enterprises and work is very high. We're still talking about the coalition agreement. The fight against social fraud must be stepped up. Contribution fraud, benefit fraud and cross-border social fraud affect the capacity of our social security systems. They are an attack on solidarity and must be tackled together and with equal strength. Social inspection services will be adequately supported and strengthened, if necessary, so that they can achieve their objectives of control in sectors sensitive to fraud. Coordination between the various inspection services should be continued and strengthened, where appropriate through the integration of the different services where there is overlap, without compromising the collection processes with a view to greater impact. This plan is therefore conceived in three directions, in order to give concrete effect to the government agreement and to combat social dumping. I'll explain these different axes. The first element concerns the strengthening of inspection services, with a reorganization of SIRS-SIOD. The target is an additional return of €25 million in revenue in 2016, and €50 million in 2017. The objective is also, of course, to monitor the correct implementation of the various elements of this plan. There is no point in deciding on a number of measures if there is no capacity to enforce and enforce them. In the last budgetary conclave, the decision to make 96 commitments was taken. The procedures for these are already under way as a matter of urgency. The number of these commitments has been the subject of a very precise study for each of the services concerned. The number of recruitments per service was studied for the purpose of the targeted action on social dumping and the fight against bogus status, contracts which are not part of the core business of, for example, the RVA and the RSVZ. Nevertheless, 14 staff were recruited from the RVA, because this project integrates the Channel Plan and the project of the flying team. I have here the figures of full-time equivalents for each of the relevant services that you will have as part of the transmission of my document. The persons are distributed to SIRS, ONSS, ONEM, INAMI, the Inspectorate, in short for a total of 96 people. In addition to the commitments of the new inspectors mentioned above, a better integration of inspection services is essential in order to make these commitments effective. The coordination of the four inspection services responsible for combating social dumping will be carried out by the SIRS through the establishment of two structural consultation committees: one for the employees' scheme and one for the self-employed scheme, where, in addition to the inspection services concerned, a representative of the SIRS chairs the committee as coordinator. Cooperation in the fight against social security contributions fraud, benefit fraud and cross-border social fraud will be discussed in a concerted manner. The aim is to share experiences, data, information and to achieve a more centralized steering of joint control actions. The FPS Finance can be invited to the committees to strengthen structural strategic cooperation between the tax authorities and the social inspection, without restricting the autonomy of both inspections on the ground. The Ministerial Committee on the fight against tax and social fraud, led by the Prime Minister, will meet twice a year to evaluate and guide the results of the actions in the field. The College for Combating Tax and Social Fraud also meets at least twice a year, on the initiative of the Minister for Finance, responsible for combating tax fraud, Mr Van Overtveldt, and the Secretary of State for Combating Social Fraud, Mr De Backer. The SIRS' annual rotating presidency as an additional mandate in addition to an inspection service is discontinued from January 2017 and a full-time manager will be recruited for the SIRS at that time. In accordance with the existing procedures of the P&O FPS, this manager will be aligned in terms of status with the Directors General, functions existing in the various social inspection services. We wanted to create a full-time manager function that will play a coordinating role for the various departments. A task force has also been drawn up in order to rapidly implement the reform elements of the various social inspection services. The relevant firms, FPS, IPS and SIRS will be represented. The proposals will always concern all the tasks of social inspection of the various services, excluding other tasks. At the very least, the following elements will be examined in the implementation of the government agreement on the phenomenon of contribution fraud: the synergy between the Social Inspectorate and ONSS, the links and synergy between the Independent DG of the Social Security SPF and INASTI, the synergies between ONEM and INAMI as regards the centralisation of data mining, data matching in the area of benefit fraud. In parallel with all the above, the following elements will also be considered: - the creation of a functional union of inspection services, e.g. self-employed and employees, contributions and allowances, cross-border social fraud, etc.; - assessment and, where appropriate, extension of the competences of social inspectors; - further integration between services on the proposal of this task force, created specifically to manage integration, coordination and rapprochement between services; - evaluation and, where appropriate, strengthening of the strategic role of SIRS. The legal framework of SIRS is also completed: eight recruitments, in addition to the eight inspectors already in office. They will be social inspectors recruited by statute. Unlike their colleagues, they will not be responsible for field missions, but for coordinating and managing the joint actions of the inspection services. In addition, with regard to recruitment from IPSS, at least half of the planned staff budget is for the recruitment of operational social inspectors in the field. In addition, we have also organised the allocation of part of the resources to the back office, namely the collection of contributions in terms of recruitment, but also in terms of effective collection: follow-up of the files transmitted via the point of contact to combat fraud and unfair competition. As you can see, the management of all these reinforcements has been thoroughly detailed both in terms of assignment to the services, but also, by service, in terms of assignment to field, back office, support or coordination missions. I think this is one of the most important decisions ever taken on social dumping, in addition in a tense budgetary context, as you know. In the inspection services themselves there will be a flying team on social dumping, which can carry out short-term control actions on the ball, for example in the construction sector and in the transport sector. It also seems obvious to consider the local police as a real actor at the level of the detection of risky jobs and residence fraud. Local police are asked to inform inspection services, in addition to the existing procedures laid down in the Criminal Code, either directly or via the contact point's mailbox for social fraud, of any abnormal situation identified by a local police officer with indications such as stay at the yard, work on weekends or outside normal working hours. I'll come to the second axis. The second axis includes the fight against false statutes, the strengthening of sanctions and the improvement of recovery. As far as the fight against false statutes is concerned, we know that the status of false self-employed, declared as an independent status in order to evade the payment of social contributions as an employee, while clearly exercising an employee's function with a total and complete subordination link, is one of the front lines of social dumping. We are aware that mechanisms exist for reporting false employees with the aim of opening up, in the short or medium term, social rights: unemployment, integration income or others. We also note the misuse of fictitious partner status. I do not hide from you having observed with astonishment that a number of construction companies had several dozen active partners, each holding on the one hand, and who, obviously, were simply workers of the company. In this regard, we want to review the Labour Relations Act in accordance with the Government Agreement. We are carrying out this revision project after an evaluation carried out with the social partners. It is too early to indicate the possible conclusions of this review, but we hope that it will also focus on the fight against fraud with the removal of the presumption and sectoral criteria and with elements of simplification that enable our supervisory services, in accordance with the European framework, to carry out their work to verify the real nature of labour relations. In addition, we will, together with Kris Peeters and other colleagues, put in place procedures to combat active associates and fictitious caregivers. Indeed, the caisses are on the front line to see the situations of presumptive fraud in the statutes. We are in the process of drawing up a list – of course, not exhaustive – of indicators that can help us identify a presumption of fictitious status. In order for these measures to be taken, controllers are required. In addition, statistical monitoring of companies at risk is necessary. This is what we are examining in intercabinets. The purpose of the system we are discussing is to verify the number of active partners without necessarily having to access the book of shares, which is currently mandatory. This procedure is essential. There are dozens and dozens of cases of false associates in a company, which are as many gateways to social dumping as are necessary to close quickly. Commitments are also made to investigate and monitor cases identified by the AFA unit, which deals with fictitious affiliations, and information transmitted to us by the social insurance funds. For the year 2015, the latter sent us 426 cases of suspected fraud (active partners and helpers) under the AFA procedure as well as 219 cases identified by the mailbox "fraud – active partners and helpers". In this regard, we have provided for the strengthening of administrative fines. As far as employees are concerned, and for your perfect information, it is a matter of distinguishing fraud from misunderstood legislation. For the first offence found, other than a serious offence, there may be a simple drafting of a warning with an obligation to regularize. For the most serious cases, the aim is to be able to strengthen services so that the prosecution is effective. With regard to carers, the aim is to improve the coercive nature of the fines and to recover them better under Royal Decree No 38 of 27 July 1967. In addition, the aim is to review or create the following fines: to extend AFA administrative fines to persons domiciled in Belgium, to develop enhanced joint and several liability for AFA administrative fines and to create a specific fine for non-mention of a partner or his number of shares. We also plan to join before starting as an independent. You know that today you can start your activity and then join in the day. During a check, it was stated that the person would be able to join during the day and that he had just started. In addition, cross-border recovery of social security contributions is foreseen, since a number of cooperation agreements are currently under negotiation to ensure cross-border recovery through various channels. In addition, with regard to round tables on construction, taxi, transport and future round tables in other areas, the fight against social dumping is also a priority. Mr President, I do not know whether I should go back to public procurement measures. I have made a very broad presentation on this in the Finance Committee and in plenary. But I am of course at your disposal to explain why we believe that public procurement measures - 50 to 60 billion a year, after the years - are absolutely decisive measures in the context of the fight against social dumping. Through the transposition of the European directives on public procurement, the concessions already made and the third transposition which will shortly be transmitted, I believe that we have introduced a whole series of concepts, of which I am ready to give you details of the various elements. But I would point out that public contracts now resume, at the time of award, the obligation to reject tenders in breach of labour law - Article 66 et seq. of the legal provision. At any stage of the procedure, exclusions are also mandatory in the case of illegal labour, tax and social debt. There is also a whole panel of optional exclusions where labour law is not respected during the market. We have introduced the concept of "bad prior performance", now grounds for optional exclusion – section 69.1 of the Act. As far as the award criteria are concerned, we have ensured that the price is no longer the only award criterion, with, of course, the introduction of the extension of the most economically advantageous offer and the use that we want to make of it on a large scale. In addition, we also announced the modification of the concept of "abnormally low prices", on the basis of the verification carried out today and which did not always put the contracting authority in a position to exclude undertakings which it was convinced were engaging in social dumping and the posting of workers under illegal conditions. We have also, through the provisions on alternative financing, introduced new elements to combat them. Finally, I would like to introduce the concept of limiting subcontractors in the vertical chain. We know that, and I see it on the construction sites, vertical subcontracting in cascades, almost infinitely, is really an extremely favourable framework for the exercise of work in non-respectable conditions, including human dignity in certain cases, but I am also thinking of minimum wages and other provisions. As you know, a working group on social dumping, chaired by the Prime Minister's team and bringing together construction professionals, the Regions and others, is at work. In addition, the approval of contractors is provided for in a delegation to the King to be executed. The aim, as I said in the Finance Committee and in plenary, is that the whole package of public procurement, implementing orders, various limitations introduced and limitations of vertical subcontracting be applicable by the end of 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, I have further figures at your disposal, in addition to those I have just transmitted to you. As you see, we need to be mobilized at all levels. We have amended legislation on public procurement, implementing orders and procedures. We are in discussion with the Regions and with the main contracting authorities. We have introduced new procedures. We have recruited nearly 100 people and I am very pleased with this decision. We will have a protocol of collaboration with the local police for the observation and transmission of information throughout the country. I think that today the mobilisation is general, but in this and other areas what the sectors, the unions, the professionals and the analysts expect are results. The best lawyer of the measures that I have just outlined to you briefly, although we could talk about the subject for three hours, will be the result of the measures. Figures were published a few days ago on the impact of social dumping: at least 5 to 6 000 jobs are lost per year, sometimes 7 000 jobs. We really have the ambition to break, to reverse the trend. There are also measures which will very specifically prohibit subcontracting or economic unemployment, while the same tasks are assigned to firms by subcontracting. In these situations, the state loses two or three times since the activity is no longer maintained at home - we pay unemployment - and it is outsourced through the detachment. These are combined mechanisms. Additional protocols are under negotiation with the Benelux countries. Finally, at European level, through the voice of the Prime Minister, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for the Economy and the Secretary of State for the Fight against Social Fraud, we have a very strong message to really equip the states with the statistical and technical tools to monitor European legislation in its current version. Of course, we support efforts to improve legislation so that the free movement of workers is not, in the end, unfair, unfair competition, to the detriment of everyone and often to the detriment of the workers themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic436x.u9	Minister, thank you for your detailed presentation, which has been distributed in both languages so that each can review certain figures and specific elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic436x.u10	Just a little precision. You will see that in my note the 31 countries of the European Union are mentioned. Of course, these are the other 31 countries in the European Economic Area. I wanted to make that point so that there was no ambiguity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic436x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed exposé. I will come back to your plans with the social inspection services, because I am very interested in that. I am glad that we have that text and I will study it in peace. That is an important ambition. You explained the principle of social dumping. You have outlined and substantiated the problem with a number of figures. It is clear to all my fellow Members that this is a very topical problem, whose negative impact is very high. We really need to get to work on this. The exchange of views on social dumping is therefore certainly appropriate. There is also a link with false self-employment. People then work in the facts, in principle, under the authority, direction and supervision of others, but are wrongly described as self-employed. This leads to the government failing to make a lot of social contributions. It also leads to unfair competition from malicious companies versus companies that correctly apply the rules of the game and pay full social contributions on the mass of wages. I'm just making a side jump to the law of August 25, 2012. In doing so, we tried to step up the fight against bogus self-employment by targeting a number of sectors sensitive to fraud, including the construction sector, which you have already outlined. The law introduced a rebuttable legal presumption of employment contract on the basis of nine specific, well-defined criteria. In addition, the law also allowed the risk sectors to further develop and, if necessary, replace the criteria. The construction sector, for example, has made use of this. However, this has led to the law proving very difficult to apply in practice. The combination of the different criteria for these various sectors and the possibility of rebuttal made it very difficult to apply the law correctly in the field. Moreover, it became clear that the investigations are very complex and take a lot of time. For example, the questioning of potential bogus self-employed, potential fraudsters, is extremely time-consuming and we are colliding with a lot of barriers whose language barrier is not the least. As a result, there is the need to employ interpreters and so on. That law was absolutely well-intentioned, I believe, but it is rather counterproductive in the facts. Allowing each sector to apply its specific test criteria makes it unnecessarily complicated. That takes people and time, so a lot of resources, and it certainly doesn't make the burden of proof any easier. The inspection of this type of fraud is also very cumbersome. The RSVZ receives some information in the context of an investigation and suspects a case of fraud. A dossier will then be sent to the inspection services responsible for the ad hoc investigation, which will have to collect a number of elements which will be useful in order to achieve a precise qualification of the employment relationship. Afterwards, the substantiated file will be handed over to the RSZ. Only then will the file be regularised. This is therefore very cumbersome and time-consuming and not always efficient. I refer to your press release at the beginning of this year, February, I believe. Your intention is to return to more uniform testing criteria for bogus self-employment independently of the sector. We believe that this is a good thing, but the possible amendment of the law will of course not solve all the problems. Hence again my little bridge to the inspection services. I believe that we should impose the ambition of improving cooperation between inspection services. You have explained this in detail and we are going to study it in peace. However, I believe that ambition should be high enough. Inspection services should not only cooperate better, they should even integrate. There is a very great efficiency exercise to be made if we really want to move forward. In any case, I am pleased that you have devoted an important part of your speech to this. The policy paper of colleague De Backer also builds on the plans of his predecessor Tommelein in this respect. I am therefore hopeful, but allow me to express some reserve. You quoted the coalition agreement. Like many things in the coalition agreement, that is rather general and vague. Again, I believe it is our duty to be ambitious enough. This is a particular challenge for the task force working today. Allow me to make the following comment. If I am not mistaken, the task force, alongside your cabinet, also represents the Cabinets of Minister Peeters, Minister De Block and Secretary of State De Backer. If we do that exercise, I will miss Minister Vandeput's cabinet, which is responsible for civil service matters. I don't understand why that cabinet wasn't included in that exercise. I would like to make a warm appeal to consider this and see whether it could not be a useful addition. In 2015, 35 000 unique persons were posted as self-employed in Belgium. Two thirds are from Eastern Europe. These are figures from your colleague De Backer's policy paper. Most of the time we are dealing with so-called self-employed people who come to work through some kind of mediation agency and who are all in the grey zone of false self-employment. Fortunately, the spirits in this country have matured somewhat, at least in my group, about the fact that the two-year period of secondment is far too long and may be revised. At the same time, the minds are ripening about the lack of means of control. We have a lot of information about our own employees and self-employed people, allowing us to cross and check data. However, we do not have that information on posted self-employed workers, let alone that we can cross information. Let me give you a concrete example. We do not know whether someone in their home country is paying social security and the research is very difficult; if we get an answer from abroad, it will follow months after the specific question. That lack of transparency undermines the whole of European thought, Minister. You have indicated that the system of social dumping is detrimental to our own social security and to the competitiveness of our companies. That therefore undermines European ideas. For both employees and the self-employed, we really need a fairer and more verifiable system for cross-border employment. Posting should once again become an exception, according to the principle for which it is intended, which is to bring people here for a short period of time who have the expertise and know-how that we do not have. It should also be a system in which wage and working conditions do not undermine the social security system of the country of work. I believe that the European Union should gradually be open to a more transparent control system. Minister, would you like to apply pressure from your position to get the noses in Europe in the right direction?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic436x.u12	Minister, thank you for this very detailed, very comprehensive presentation. We really see that the government wants to tackle this issue, which has been undermining many sectors of our economy for quite a few years. Your measurements seem to be effective. The transversality that you put in place between different administrations is also important and will be necessary. You said that in 2014, there were 159,753 forms, how many full-time equivalents would it match? We are talking about posted workers, about self-employed enterprises, can we relate the number of posted workers who are individually contacted by a company to the number of workers who come through these detached enterprises, who work in subcontracting? I think it must be a lot of people. Belgium will put measures in place, but Europe will have to do so too. I know that Commissioner Thyssen had started taking action or set in motion a plan at the end of 2015. Since then, we have been talking about Brexit and I think that it is waiting for the results of this referendum in Britain to continue its work. Britain, like Belgium, is very much concerned with this problem. Can you tell us a little more about the position that Europe intends to take on this issue? Finally, posted workers come to our home but it must also be said that there are a whole series of jobs that are in short supply, jobs that people in our home no longer want to work. It is a way of opening the door to all these workers, who come mainly from the countries of the East. In addition, there are other trades, specialized, which are no longer being trained in our own country, the fields of education are not always very effective. It is sometimes in the eastern countries that skilled workers are found, whether in the construction sector or in metal construction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic436x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. I am pleased that we were able to hold a wider exchange of views on the subject of social dumping in committee today. I was a asking party and you responded to that. I can only welcome the fact that the subject will also be properly monitored in the forthcoming committee meetings and in the coming years of this legislature and that the planned actions and initiatives you have taken will be monitored. I would like to thank you for your detailed report, for the document we received on the initiatives that have been taken and for the ambition you have shown in terms of social dumping in the self-employed sector. It is clear that you believe it and that you do want to make an adequate effort to combat social dumping. I fully agree with that and can only support it. As you said in your introduction, it is important for the credibility and fair competition of the self-employed, as well as for the Belgian economy in general, to focus on the issue of social dumping. In this way we will also avoid a loss of confidence on the part of the self-employed and entrepreneurs themselves. Before I go into a number of smaller topics and come to my questions about tackling social dumping and tax fraud, let me say that it is absolutely important to create a general good tax and parafiscal environment, including for the self-employed and entrepreneurs themselves. I'm not allowed to use the word "own" but I'll do it anyway. It is also one of your legitimate priorities in your policy statement and SME plan to reduce employees' wage burdens, both for the self-employed and for companies, also to increase the purchasing power of employees. In this context, we have approved the tax shift, not an insignificant part to improve the overall environment for businesses and the self-employed and to increase our competitiveness. In your introduction, you argue for a new tax shift, focused on the construction sector. I am absolutely in favour of a new tax shift for many reasons. I think that we should focus on an additional reduction in our tax and parafiscal burden. There is still a great deal to be done in this area, not only with a view to achieving climate and sustainability objectives, but also with a view to achieving fairer taxation. I would like to give you this as a general consideration for introduction. You have rightly demonstrated in your exhibition that it is absolutely important for the fight against social dumping to focus not only on a general good financial and fiscal environment, but also on a good and agile organisation. Without sufficient staff, we will indeed not succeed in the design. I note that there will be a task force with liaison officers between the various departments and departments, including Finance, RSZ and RSVZ. I welcome that, but there is also a need for staff on the floor to carry out the checks effectively. You intend to use additional staff to do this, which certainly pleases me, but there is also a need to monitor whether there is sufficient staff to fulfil your ambitions. Personnel and strength in the field are essential elements for an efficient and effective struggle. A first part of my questions concerns the approach to the A1 declarations. In response to previous questions in our committee on self-employed workers who are employed here in Belgium through an A1 declaration, you said that we certainly need to focus on much more exchange of information with the countries of origin, i.e. the Member States of temporary employment. You also raised a number of problems at one of the previous committee meetings, in which you referred, among other things, to Romania and Bulgaria, from which Belgium receives a lot of A1 self-employed workers, which we have to accept. Apparently, in Romania and Bulgaria little is reported on the A1 declarations issued. There are gaps and gaps in the indication of the maximum period for posting according to the A1 declaration. In many cases, the A1 declaration also specifies an activity as a self-employed person other than the activity carried on in the country of origin and here. One can also seriously doubt the truthfulness of the statements in the A1 attestations about the activity that is being carried out here, and about the stated period of time. I'll come to my questions. You replied to an earlier oral question that the procedure for issuing the A1 attestations would be reformed. I do not think I have heard that in your speech just now. Could you please explain how the procedure for issuing A1 attestations is being changed or not? How can you achieve better control and enforcement of their statements with some of those broadcasting states, such as Romania and Bulgaria, which apparently do not comply with the basic rules? Is it still possible to conclude cooperation agreements with Bulgaria and Romania on this matter? Is that planned? Are they open to that? To what extent is there talk at European level of better enforcement of the necessary declarations and control in the country of origin, the sending State? So much for a first package of questions, in particular on the A1 declarations. A second element of my question concerns the better exchange of information between administrations and inspections, in Belgium and with European Member States. You rightly referred to the need for a better exchange of information between the RSZ and the RSVZ in our country. I believe that this is right for an appropriate approach. Sometimes the information gets stuck between the administrations when questions are asked and there is no proper follow-up. There is absolutely no doubt that more should be devoted to this. Part of the solution may be the liaison officers and the manager you are talking about. The task force should also be a tool. Once again, I believe that sufficient information should also be exchanged between the officials concerned in the various departments and teams. They need to be sufficiently sensitised to actually do so. Mr Minister, I would like to return to the issue of the A1 attestations. How will you better deal with the exchange of information on the A1 self-employed? It concerns the exchange of information between the internal administrations and the RSZ and the RSVZ. Are you referring to the initiatives you have just mentioned in your exposé, such as the task force and that manager, or are there other specific initiatives to improve the exchange of information in connection with those A1 certificates between the RSZ and the RSVZ? I would also like to establish a link with the European level. By the end of 2016 and mandatory by the end of 2018, the new EESSI system, the information exchange system at European level, should be active and operational. This would allow Member States to exchange much better information and data at European level between social security institutions. There is also a need for a much better exchange of information between Member States. How do you see the implementation of that system? Is Belgium ready to work with that system in the coming years and certainly by 2018 at the latest? What benefits do you see in this new European data system, including for our social security agencies and certainly for your own fight against social dumping in self-employed people? What additional steps, if any, should be taken to implement this system properly in Belgium? My third question concerns the Limosa declaration. Self-employed persons carrying out a temporary activity here must submit a Limosa declaration and therefore register with the RSVZ. Not everyone does. Non-directors can be sanctioned for that. In your view, can the reporting obligation with Limosa be used even better and more targeted to tackle fraud? How do you see any additional adjustments to the obligations in the Limosa declaration and the sanctioning? I take note of your statement that work will be carried out on the evaluation of the Labour Relations Act. Mr Raskin also mentioned industrial relations. You referred to the ABC's paper on the Labour Relations Act. I note that this will continue in the coming months with the various Cabinets and Ministers concerned. You will also involve the various stakeholders and social partners. We can therefore continue to monitor your actions and wait. A further element concerns the new law on public procurement. There, too, strong investments were made to better address social dumping, including through large purchases by the various authorities in this country. It is also good to make sure that the rules of labour law and social law, which must be in order in the award of public contracts, are better enforced and complied with. To what extent do you provide for an evaluation of the amended public procurement law that has now been adopted? It would be useful to monitor the positive progress made in the fight against social dumping and compliance with labour law and social law at regular intervals. Is a monitoring foreseen for this purpose? Is an evaluation foreseen of the reduction of social dumping by public procurement legislation? My final questions relate to European integration and cooperation. As other colleagues have said, the fight against social dumping is an important part of confidence in European integration, European cooperation and the European project in itself. As a Member State, we must therefore make a good contribution to this. Belgium is one of the pioneers at European level, of the Western European front, in order to be more active in the fight against social dumping and for the proper free movement of workers and the self-employed. We know that there is nothing we can do against the free movement of workers and self-employed persons in itself, and that is also a good thing, because it is a basic element or fundamental condition of the European idea and the European Union, but we can all work together, especially from Western Europe, to enforce a more precise control over the new, often Eastern European Member States. I come back to one of my first points, namely the A1 attestations or A1 declarations. Eastern European Member States have to deal much more strictly with their own declarations, their own obligations and their own legislation. We must be able to make that clear to them. In this way, we hope to achieve a much better balance between the Western and Eastern European Member States. Finally, I would like to ask you: I have also linked this to the law on public procurement to the monitoring of the justified actions that you are proposing and developing. Can we in any way, therefore, take a look at the chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to ensure that what has been explained and set out for the first time today is followed up to assess progress on the actions? There was just a question about the follow-up to the SME plan and its evaluation. Perhaps we can do this in the same way with an assessment of the measures and actions taken in the field of social dumping.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic436x.u14	I agree with your last remark. It is not a problem to organise an evaluation of the effects of the measures here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic436x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed explanation and for the note, which I am sure we will all read out. At first glance, we can only welcome the fact that you are fighting this. We allow someone who works a lot pay to work, but in a fair way. So this is what we have to fight, all together. Domicile fraud is indeed also a common way of enriching itself. There is an urgent need to do something about this. Minister, I hear you saying that the budget will be increased by 25 million in 2017. When do you think you will be ready with the arrangements we are discussing here? When do you think they will be in force? Do you have any idea how much they'll bring?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic436x.u16	Mr Vanden Burre, I recalled at the beginning of the sitting that you wanted to ask a question. Your question and answer will therefore be included in the record of this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic436x.u17	Mr President, thank you. Minister, thank you for your detailed explanations. I would also like to thank you for the note we have just received, which contains many elements which we will analyse in detail in a second stage. I have already covered the broad lines of your proposals. First of all, in connection with the oral question I originally asked about social dumping, we know how much it is a scourge. In recent years, about 7,000 jobs have been lost. In 2014, the estimate was about 30,000 posted workers in Belgium. Both in the head of the Confederation of Construction and the UCM, there have been real alarms in recent months about this scourge and the difficulties encountered especially in the construction sector. With regard to the axes you have detailed, the first two relating to the strengthening and reorganization of the Inspectorate imply the effectiveness of controls, the collection of fines and the possibility for services to operate effectively through additional commitments. You mentioned the commitment of fourteen people at ONEM, because the project incorporates the Canal plan and the flying team project. Can you be more explicit about this? Indeed, your presentation did not seem clear to me in this respect, and the link between this subject and the Canal Plan, already presented last year by the Minister of the Interior, does not seem obvious to me. With regard to the fight against false statutes and the strengthening of sanctions, your decisions, called for by all the players in the sector, go in the right direction. The third point, which relates to public procurement, is fundamental in terms of combating social dumping. That's why he's holding our full attention. Ecolo-Groen has, moreover, expressed itself on many occasions on this subject. However, your proposals leave us on our hunger. As you know, the provision of services to public authorities in Belgium amounts to almost EUR 50 billion. We would like you to go further in the area of public procurement. Of course, you are announcing that you are going to strengthen the task force and that you are going to take implementing orders, but the social and environmental criteria relative to the price are insufficient. You repeat that the contracting authority relies, in order to be able to award the contract, on the most economically advantageous tender, which you define according to the price. You rely on cost-effectiveness and life-cycle cost. Finally, you invoke the best value for money, in particular through the insertion of environmental and social criteria. We would like these clauses to be stricter, as they will make it possible to combat social dumping more effectively. We would therefore like you to pursue this further, especially since the European directive offers Member States a number of opportunities to make progress in this direction. I would also like to reiterate our willingness to go even further on cascade subcontracting, which your text puts forward. Stronger obligations are permitted by the European Directive. We know that most cases of social dumping and of posted workers in the construction and supply sectors delivered through public procurement are the result of subcontracting mechanisms. In our view, to put an end to it, you should make the obligations more stringent. I am thinking in particular of the automatic declaration of subcontractors by tenderers. These are the points I really wanted to put forward in a first round. We will certainly come back to more precise points, as the application orders you announce come out.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic436x.u18	Minister, like my colleagues, I followed you very carefully. This is indeed an important issue for companies, workers and Belgian GDP. These markets are considerable and bring wealth to the country and to the workers. I will make a few general remarks before I come to a few more specific points. When documents are read, the situation becomes untenable for employers and workers in these sectors. They sometimes feel excluded from the economic sector so much they lose orders, market shares, jobs. We hear that in employers' federations and in trade union confederations; it is a cry of alarm in society. It is really time to take necessary and appropriate emergency measures. I have the weakness to believe in a comprehensive, coherent, concerted and coordinated approach at national and European level. We need stronger controls; our country is small, neighbouring countries are close and cross-border collaboration must increase the chances of apprehending offenders. I believe that an efficient and rapid data exchange system, via a network or a genuine back office of national authorities and inspection services in the various Member States, is crucial. The concrete measures, Minister, still include steps that will have to be taken and involve other measures to be taken. I come back to you regarding the EU Implementing Directive 2014/67 of 15 May 2014, which is due to be transposed by 18 June 2016. It's tomorrow, if you'll allow me to express it. This implementing directive aims to strengthen the practical application of the rules on the posting of workers by addressing problems related to fraud, circumvention of rules and the exchange of information between Member States. Minister, what is the status of this directive? Will we have this transposition on our benches by 18 June 2016, as requested by Europe? I will not surprise you by saying that the National Labour Council has indeed delivered a rather long and detailed opinion No 1982 on this directive. As regards listening to the social partners in this dimension, to their views, both employers and workers, and to the comments they have made, this raises a real question. Will you share these views with the social partners? Are you going to start a negotiation again with them and all this for June 18, 2016? I think it is a famous challenge that awaits you because these are measures to be implemented effectively and in a very precise way on the ground. Why am I telling you this? We take note of the measures that have been taken and which you referred to in your presentation, including concrete measures on the ground. But, in one of your last sentences, minister, "the best lawyers will be those who, in the field, will see the change." I'm looking at the best lawyers. The Chamber of Trade Unions for the Construction of the country of Liège – we don't do it again, Minister – issued a Belga communiqué yesterday, June 6, 2016 at 3:31 p.m., in relation to proposals that are being issued. If you wish, I can transfer it to you. A series of proposals are here and they are really waiting for their implementation. And so, the best lawyer, it's not being actively implemented yet. What, Minister, about the labour relations assessment - you mentioned that in your note - in order to strengthen the fight against false independence? I'm rereading your policy note of October 30, 2015. She says exactly the same thing. Exactly! Since October 30, 2015, more than six months have passed. Some of the measures you have outlined to us are being implemented. But in the field, things are sometimes dusty. I was talking about implementing coordination and trying to meet the demand. Don't wait. Markets disappear very quickly, as weeks and months pass. I leave the construction sector on the side for now to address the transport sector. On 18 May, in this Parliament, the Committee on Infrastructure heard ten speakers on the issue of social dumping. You can reread the very interesting work of the commission. In conclusion, people complain. It doesn't move in the field. It really has to change. I would like to convey this concern here. Minister, you are also competent for the transport sector, as we mentioned after the construction. There's no shortage of ideas. You mentioned them. We discussed it here. You will listen to us, I imagine, both the opposition and the majority. Our companies need to fight on equal terms. Otherwise, there is obviously a break in competition, and that is problematic. Policies should be developed to try to put Belgian businesses and SMEs on the same footing as others, against social dumping. That is the real competition. It is also a way of reviving the economy in our country. We have made proposals which have been rejected, in particular in amendments relating to public procurement. We wanted companies that bid on public contracts to make a written commitment to respect appropriate wages in Belgium in order to prevent our SMEs and companies from being forced to put Belgian workers out of work. This proposal has not been accepted, but I come back with it in this debate. I would like to tell you that the best lawyers will be companies when they are on an equal footing with others and not in situations of breach of competition. I conclude my speech. You've exposed that you're putting things in place. You have expressed figures and you have also said, "I can provide you with other figures." Which ones, Mr. Minister? Or give us a link to a website, so we can get more information. We can go to the websites, but if you have any other significant figures, I would be happy to have access to them so that things can move in terms of healthy and fair competition in the market, whether in the construction, transport or other sectors in difficulty in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic436x.u19	Minister, let me also make a few remarks. First of all, the objective of combating social dumping enjoys the unanimity of all the members of this committee, although some will feel that some nuances should be made as to how to proceed and will question the effectiveness of the proposed measures. But in any case, on the substance, all the democratic political groups represented here agree that our country must mobilize at all levels to combat this phenomenon. Before talking about economic issues, job losses, unfair competition and others, there is, above all, as you have said, the issue of human dignity, namely workers from other countries who are exploited in the course of their work or who live in conditions that are not worthy of a 21st century society. We must therefore ensure that basic rules are respected, rules to be laid down and implemented by providing for sanctions commensurate with what sometimes turns out to be the reality on the ground. Having said that, you have cited quite upbuilding figures. If I understood correctly, in terms of social dumping, false detachments, false statutes, false independents, etc., we would be the champions of Europe. I do not know whether a country in the European Union is ahead of us in this area, given the 11% posted in our country. I don't know if we win the gold, silver or bronze medal. But, in any case, we are among the European champions in this field. This means that a cross-sectional reaction is more than necessary. Certain elements within your competence must be discussed with you in this committee. I believe that the Social Affairs Committee has already discussed this subject widely, as has the Committee on Infrastructure. This question concerns the whole government, the political world, to speak only of the federal level here. I have a few comments on what is being presented. The recruitment of additional social inspectors is a step in the right direction. No one will say that it is not right to recruit 96 people for all services, and not only in your department. The PS nevertheless believes that this is insufficient. You spoke about the extent of the phenomenon, you gave figures on job losses, on the phenomenon of unfair competition. Companies are penalized because they comply with legislation. We therefore believe that much more than 96 inspectors would be required. We will consider this a first step in the right direction, but it is insufficient. With regard to monitoring in the field, I retained the idea that the police would also be asked to pay attention. This is certainly a good point, but can you tell us more about this invitation? To whom will these police findings be targeted? Will the mayors and zone chiefs be sensitized by a letter, by a circular, by a royal decree or by another device, so that we are beyond a mere intention? How will this be achieved? This will certainly be done in cooperation with your colleague responsible for the matter, the Minister of the Interior. In my small commune, I proposed to the communal council a motion against social dumping, which other communes have also done. I had contact with the chief of the police zone so that the observations of the field people could be transmitted to whom by right for follow-up. As far as proportional fines are concerned, there are quite dramatic situations which can lead to serious or fatal accidents on construction sites. For example, the case of an illegal worker who died of an accident at a construction site and whose body was abandoned three or four kilometres further away without any other form of trial was investigated. Serious things happen and deserve very heavy sanctions. Fines and other penalties should be proportionate to the seriousness of the incident. There is already legislation on accidents at work. It is an area that deserves our full attention, because there are far too many fatal accidents in our country. For workers who, in a way, do not exist, the problem is even more important. The problems of language and safety at work must be taken into account in a much more precise way. It is also important to combat false self-employed people. For a long time now, the public authorities have been wondering how to proceed! This phenomenon is not limited to foreign workers. It also concerns Belgian workers. You're talking about the plan for fair competition. As a reminder, this plan concerns some 40 measures, which are only very partially implemented, but I am, like Mrs Matz, requesting an evaluation. If, of the forty measures, only three or four are implemented today, we must hurry for the others. Because in the end, only the results will matter. Measures should not be limited to reducing social contributions. This is an aspect of the problem, but we will not fight against dumping by reducing the social protection of workers or by becoming Romania. That's not the solution either. We think we need a willingness to go further. I will refer to a number of subjects, for which I consider that, if a will is expressed, it is in my opinion insufficient. Thus, the remuneration which should be the norm of the country where the work is performed is always theoretical, but the concept of remuneration is not clearly defined enough, and this is not the case in practice. This situation leads to wages below the minimum wage in Belgium, sometimes with bonuses and benefits in the black. In short, this creates competition between workers. It is important to clarify the concept of remuneration in the law, so that all posted workers receive the minimum wage as defined in Belgium for the benefits delivered in our country. The labour market is not a Bisounour world, we are all well aware of it; it is a jungle. Let us be honest, in the field of construction, when public procurement is planned, the contractor submitting the offer communicates its prices on the basis of those supplied to it by subcontractors. It is well aware that some of them demand prices below the normal market price if they have to pay workers properly and cover them socially. That's where the bastard hurts and we have to carry the iron. In public procurement, prices are currently broken due to secondments, co-operators or any other false status, which make it possible to organise genuine unfair competition. We believe that we need to work on this issue of compensation. The law must be clear enough to avoid the drifts that we currently know. In the construction, transport, cleaning and guarding sectors, subject to certain criteria, the law considers that an established employment relationship automatically becomes an employment contract. We believe that these criteria should be extended to other risk areas. Moreover, the sectors already mentioned cannot derogate from this regulation by negotiating new criteria which may determine whether a worker is employed or self-employed. We believe that they should be developed by the Social Inspectorate. In any case, this phenomenon needs to be better managed. It is also necessary to fight "letterbox" companies, whose sole purpose is to employ workers from other countries. That is why we must demand that they carry out a genuine activity in their country of origin before detaching workers at home. Here too, we believe that a more rigorous legislative initiative is necessary. Secondly, I wanted to address the issue of social security rights. As I have already said, it is not by robbing them that we are going to solve the problem. This challenge seems to us Socialists to be absolutely essential. We cannot reduce the rights of our workers and must also ensure that there is adequate health care and pension coverage for these workers. Before concluding, I have two points to develop. Public procurement has been discussed in a committee other than this one. At the heart of the debate is the price criterion. You are putting forward a desire to combat fraud, which is reflected in the implementation of means, including the recruitment of 96 inspectors. Even if price is an element, it remains that other criteria can be introduced both socially and environmentally. It is not sufficient to recommend it, because if the possibility exists in the law that only the price is decisive for the award of a contract or not, then the social and environmental criteria cannot be ignored. We believe that the government does not go far enough in terms of public procurement to touch where it hurts and really break the infernal mechanics which you have so well explained to us, in terms of, for example, job losses and unfair competition. I come to the issue of joint and several liability. Again, if the contracting company is made in solidarity with its subcontractors, the problem of, for example, unpaid workers can be solved. We've seen construction sites where the workers were not paid. And finally, who bears responsibility for the non-payment of these workers? We believe that it is necessary to organise the joint and several liability of the company which obtains a construction site, in particular on its subcontractors. Nor does the government go far enough in this regard. In conclusion, I would say that statements of good intentions will not be sufficient. We'll evaluate. Like other colleagues, I think the results of the policy should be seen. We need strong and concrete measures now, which will be evaluated as soon as possible, because the time spent is lost for companies, for workers. We must therefore certainly go further. For example, mention was made of technical unemployment. It is absolutely aberrant that some companies place Belgian workers in technical unemployment while illegal posted subcontractors carry out the work. There is therefore a real need for a concrete response in this area. And I know that this is one of the forty measures envisaged. I conclude by repeating that this is a societal and cross-cutting issue. It concerns other levels of government and departments other than yours at the federal level. I believe that mobilization at all levels is necessary and we want to participate. I talked about the local level. The latter can already, in its own areas of competence, pay particular attention to public procurement, organise the signing of a charter and organise vigilance taking its source at this level. You can get to know what's going on in the field, even if it's probably easier in a small town than in a big city. We can be more vigilant at this level. The European level is more complicated, but it should be more binding on the posting of workers. My colleague from Lamotte referred to the transposition into Belgian law of the 2014 directive, which corrects, amends and perfects the 1996 directive on the posting of workers. It is urgent to do so and the deadline may pass without it being done, it is a pity. I'm waiting, like my colleagues and others. Opposition bills are on the table in order to move forward and transcribe this 2014 directive into Belgian law, which puts a little order in a much too lax directive, which has allowed for many abuses. In fact, we challenged this one at the time, but it was a long time ago. Minister, we want to participate in this mobilization at all levels, but we also want the majority and the government to take the extra step so that, beyond good intentions and a small strengthening of inspection services, we can work on the remuneration, social protection, public procurement and the joint responsibility of the companies that obtain the contracts. Like my colleagues, I will listen carefully to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic436x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions and comments. Here are a number of reactions. I'll start with the methodology. I am open to regular monitoring, showing the figures, the results, the changes at the pace that the committee would like to see; this does not cause me any problems, either in terms of the measures and their implementation or in terms of the figures. As far as the figures are concerned, with my colleague, Mr. From Backer, we will, even before the interruption of the summer holidays, do in a very transparent way also the evaluation of the forty measures of the plan co-carried out at the time with Bart Tommelein and with the colleagues. As far as methodology is concerned, of course, this is a matter which concerns the federal government for a whole range of provisions, public procurement, social law and others, but which also concerns other levels of power, regional and local. The union of all forces is truly welcome in this case. Of course, everyone with a particular responsibility in his competence, I really stress the work and the mobilisation of all my colleagues: Mr. Van Overtveldt for the tax components, Mr. Jambon, you mentioned him, president for cooperation with the police services, Mr. Tommelein and now Mr. From Backer, Mr Peeters to the Economy and of course the Prime Minister with regard to public procurement and the coordination of a number of work. It is a matter that must mobilise all of us in the government, in the majority, in opposition with the social partners and other entities of the country. Finally, I do not agree with some remarks about the fact that we would be slow, not sufficiently determined, not offensive enough on the subject. I'm gonna have a chance to say it. I observe that in a few months, a lot of actions, decisions, regulations, procedures, amendments, fines, processes have been corrected, densified, strengthened, etc. The will is truly complete. When I say that the results are the best advocates of the measures – I wasn't talking about people in this case – it's really to say that in this area, we will not judge the means implemented but really the figures very concretely. In a year, in two years,...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic436x.u21	When the 11% becomes 0.5%, for example.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic436x.u22	We have to see what other countries will have done. When construction tells us, in absolute numbers, that we have lost or are going to lose 5,000, 6,000 or 7,000 jobs a year, it is obviously a disaster. As you have rightly mentioned, Mr President, when, moreover, a number of human and social tragedies also find exploitation, sometimes trafficking in human beings totally within the meaning of the law, to be a possible framework, it is totally unworthy. I really use the term on purpose. I will respond to the various elements more precisely. Thank you also for all the positive comments made by some colleagues. As far as the European level is concerned, we are very clearly on the offensive. We support the development of the regulatory provisions, in particular through the work carried out by Mrs Marianne Thyssen on the adaptation of the directive. In fact, it has very recently announced provisions. You know that the core of these provisions concerns the valuation and effective respect of wages and all the components of wages in the country where the work is carried out, by maintaining social security contributions in the country of origin of the work. But, as you know, this provision on progress is the subject of a so-called "yellow map" procedure by countries in Central and Eastern Europe which are now opposed to certain elements of this European directive. Of course, we support these regulatory advances at European level. These procedures are lengthy. Even if this directive is adopted, the deadline for transposition will take us into 2019, 2020 or beyond. There is an urgent need, of course. In the meantime, Mrs Smaers, we support everything that can be done today at European level. It is important to be able to have really effective data banks, tools that enable national services to check whether social security is paid in national legislation; to have different tools to compare legislation, so that at European level we can see how we can facilitate the work of our services by enabling them to verify compliance with the legislation. This is something we can now do at European level, so that we should not systematically rely on bilateral protocols. I know that's the intention. Mr. De Backer is working on expanding these bilateral protocols with the countries concerned to see whether social security has been properly implemented in each area. With different social security systems, it is obviously not simple. Some countries work very well together, others work a little less quickly in bilateral discussions. Hence the value of having these tools at European level that enable national services to work in a modern and efficient way. Several of you have addressed the LRT. Our will is indeed, beyond the four conventional criteria, to make the work of our inspection services more practical. Today, I have reports from SIRS that show that it is very difficult to verify, together with the elements of today's law, the four general criteria and the derogations or specific elements concerning the sectors. The four general criteria are the will of the parties, the legal qualification, the freedom to organise their work and working time, and the absence of hierarchical control in the strict sense of the term. Beyond this, presumptions have been provided for certain sectors and there are also sectoral criteria. I must note that it is very difficult for inspection services to work with language barriers, sometimes with a lot of bad will. I am not going to tell you about my intentions in this area today, because we need to discuss it with my colleagues in the government, but we need to take advantage of the contributions of the social dialogue that I very much care about. We will then be able to come up with a proposal that has been enriched by all the reports of the inspection services at our disposal, social consultation and dialogue with my government colleagues. But my intention is, of course, to work on the elements of specificity, presumption, and sectoral criteria which are, today, elements of obvious complexity. Let me turn to the questions relating to the LRT, to the A1 statistics, to the Limosa. As regards, first of all, the A1 and the Limosa declarations, I must note that the figures in the A1 declarations do not correspond to the figures in the Limosa declarations. There are sometimes considerable differences. Moreover, this phenomenon is on the rise. We must therefore work on the compilation of this data, but also on the A1 forms. As far as the latter are concerned, I note that one party escapes declaration A1. This part concerns work in the dark and fraud. The parties concerned do not declare themselves. In addition, I note that Form A1 is currently portable. It is not compulsory to have them before working in the receiving country. The situation is therefore not easy. Indeed, when a formality is not to be completed beforehand, the controls are always much more difficult. Mr Friart, depending on the sector, it is estimated that just over one third of the workers involved in the A1 forms are workers since several A1 declarations can be made. Mrs Smaers, we are calling at European level for a reduction in the validity of this document from two years to one year or six months, so that it can become a more effective control tool. As far as the transposition of the 2014 Detachment Directive by 18 June 2014 is concerned, even if the project is carried out by my colleagues Kris Peeters and Philippe De Backer, with whom I am in solidarity, the opinion of the CNT is very detailed. It has 21 pages. If I'm not mistaken, it was returned on the 4th of May. Of course, we take this view very seriously. My colleagues aim to present the preliminary draft transposition of the directive to the government on 17 June. You are right: we must do better in terms of time. I accept this reprimand. However, the matter is very complex. So you don't have to hit next door. As you pointed out, this phenomenon of detachment must be analysed in all its dimensions. And then, whether it is the A1 or the Limosa, we are controlled by the European services. That is why we must avoid making an inappropriate legal decision. As far as public procurement is concerned, our opinion diverges from the opinion expressed by the opposition, not with regard to transposition, but rather with regard to the price criterion. In this way, our environmental friends feel that we cannot rely on this criterion alone. The government's option is to use the concept of "the most economically favourable offer" without prohibiting the use of the price, in particular because several supply and service contracts, from the moment the company is to be approved, prompt us to consider that the price may be a useful criterion in certain situations. That said, the very offensive nature of the new law will change things. Mr de Lamotte, you accuse me of not having obliged companies to complete a declaration in which they undertake to respect the minimum wage. However, from the moment that the law obliges a company to be excluded from a criminally sanctioned legal provision, it legally creates the obligation to respect the minimum wage in public procurement. It goes even further to the extent that it introduces the obligation to reject and intervene by the contracting authority if the law is not complied with. Non-compliance with the wages set out in the joint agreements and collective agreements is criminalized. And so, frankly, would there be any meaning in another area to say: "Make a statement, for example, to those who would be tempted by crimes", saying that you are not going to commit it? Someone, tempted by the theft, if they get him to sign a statement saying "I won't steal" while the law already provides for a ban on doing so and sanctions if he commits one, does it bring a plus or is it symbolic? It's symbolic, let's agree. It is better to have laws, to have incentives to comply with them, to have information on their impact, and to have proportionate but real penalties for offenders rather than statements of intent which, in the firmament of decisions, may be sympathetic but, in the sky of reality, will probably be a little less so. I'd like to take this message to the cdH speaker. As far as the subcontracting chain is concerned, first of all, I would like to make it clear, since you were very specific in your question, that under the 1991 law the approval of contractors for work is organised exclusively and not for services in a public contract. This recognition of entrepreneurs is based on technical capacity, Mr. Vanden Burre, financial and professional integrity. The undertaking concerned receives an approval valid for five years after the opinion of the Federal Commission for the Approval of Works and can therefore enter into a public contract, this approval being recognised by the competent regional minister. With regard to the decree and the provisions of the new law on public procurement, it is planned to make it compulsory for all subcontractors in a public contract. This is an element of the sixth resolution of the federal plan for fair competition in the construction sector, which I signed with Mr Tommelein on 8 July. This approval is all the more important as it will be combined with a revision of how to calculate abnormally low prices, which would be proposed as part of a bid. The Committee on Public Procurement, which I mentioned earlier, is at work to examine how to consider, calculate and exclude abnormally low prices. From my little experience, I find that tenderers are often questioned and that many find evidence of justification, which is accepted by the contracting authorities. Therefore, the abnormally low price procedure does not bear full fruit today. We really want it to be able to do so through the revision that I have just mentioned. As regards the limitation of the subcontracting chain, we have a meeting next Friday with the social partners. If the mandatory declaration of subcontractors already exists in the framework of the site declaration, it currently concerns contracts of up to EUR 500 000, but it will, by 2017 at the latest, be further reduced. Furthermore, the subcontracting chain will be limited to two subcontractors in vertical order and by specialty, in order to avoid the problems I have indicated. Many of you have asked me about joint responsibility. In this regard too, we must adapt the texts. Indeed, the responsibility for the occupation of illegal residents is subject to strong and immediate measures. I was able to observe that a construction site in Charleroi for trafficking in human beings, etc., had been terminated. So, no problem for the current legislation! With regard to liability for social, tax and wage debts, the text should be adapted simply to prevent a bidder from excluding the defaulting subcontractor and replacing it with another a few days later. We are working on this, in particular to see if we are acting at the time of payment of the invoice in the form of withholding. Under the leadership of the Prime Minister, we are trying to provide an answer. As far as the amount of salary is concerned, Mr. President, I am very clear. In my view, it must be the whole wage, that is to say, everything that constitutes the wage in the sector concerned. It is known that, by sector, especially construction, there are elements, such as stamps, contributions for the year-end premium, etc. I am in favour of including in the salary a maximum of what constitutes the Belgian wage. I mentioned the Canal Plan. The link is made with a number of action taken in the framework of the Canal Plan, including the fight against fraud, forgery and other similar elements. The idea of the flying team comes from the Canal Plan. It seems interesting to me and should, in my view, be enlarged. As for the cooperation protocol with the police, it is not at all a statement of intent. This is done in the form of a circular in the context of a dialogue between the chiefs of corps, so that the remarkable position of knowledge and observation of the territory represented by the local police can be used. You know in your area, in your area, markets, situations where you work every hour of the day and night and where there is clearly a problem or an indication of a problem that could justify the intervention of services. We really want to make this element a priority, through this circular and this absolutely strengthened cooperation, even though I know that at the local level, some have already made this element a priority for their police. As far as the Limosa people are concerned, Mrs Smaers, as I have indicated, we would really like to have a declaration which is mandatory in advance with regard to her declaration and that this obligation is exercised in addition to the prior declaration concerning the posting of work. We are talking with Europe. As far as employees are concerned, there is no concern for Europe because our system is the same for Belgians, with the Dimona. As far as the independents are concerned, we are still under discussion, even though there have already been reforms. Europe is very browsy about a declaration obligation or any other procedure that would limit the free movement of workers. Europe is also very vigilant about an obligation that would not be the same for our citizens. At the moment, we are discussing with Europe the sectors for which it would be possible to maintain Limosa. Europe is trying to restrict them. On the other hand, we plead for as many sectors as possible to be affected by the Limosa, by the prior declaration. I am fully prepared to keep you informed of the progress of our work in this regard. There are, of course, other figures, but they all go in the same direction. They concern, for example, the countries of origin of the secondees, persons who have an A1 form with us. You will be surprised as I am to see that the Netherlands is a very important gateway, since almost 50% of people who join our territories do so through the Netherlands. This is due to the combination of legislation, here the legislation on temporary work. You will not be surprised to see that Bulgaria, for example, provides 14% of our A1 applicants and 9.5% come from Poland. I have a whole series of other figures, which I read and which I read extensively and frequently, Mr. de Lamotte, and which I would like to make available to you. We're not all up here, Mr. President, from the hit parade...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic436x.u23	Are we not champions of Europe, Minister? Or are we on the second or third step?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic436x.u24	No, since some countries are before us. But of course, if it's brought back to the population, it's changing our ranking, alas, upwards. Since we always have to be nuanced in terms of numbers, I can also count the A1s...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic436x.u25	We make the numbers say what we want!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic436x.u26	I can count the A1s in the other direction, with our workers going abroad. You will find these reports and if some want more, I will not fail to pass them on to them. I think we will have to carry out an evaluation on public procurement. The law does not provide for this, but I have no doubt that Parliament will ask us to do so. With regard to a very big reform, I think it is important to carry out this evaluation. Mr de Lamotte, you have given a somewhat negative tone, even if it is the role of the opposition. It has happened to me to do this with less talent in a previous life but I do not think it corresponds to reality. I have met with the officials of the Liège Construction Confederation on several occasions. I agree with almost all of their measurements except one. They propose that almost all situations of social dumping be criminalized in terms of trafficking in human beings. Of course, we must be determined, but they are the only ones to plead in this direction. On all the other measures, we join them and you will find, in the texts today on the table, a lot of what emerged from our discussions. Of course, and a debate was still being conducted in the media yesterday, people want concrete. That is really what I am working on, as well as my colleagues. Regardless of the divergence on public procurement, I have heard many technical proposals from Mrs Smaers, the N-VA, the President, Mr Vanden Burre and others. If there are other technical proposals or other adjustments to the legislation that you consider appropriate...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic436x.u27	Bills have been tabled, we can look at them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic436x.u28	I'm listening. I am meticulously involved in parliamentary work, including in other committees. I want to clarify something. When we speak of a particular effort to reduce social security contributions or reduce the wage bill for construction, our aim is not to unblock social security. We absolutely do not want to fall back on the protection of workers. We compare the impact of the general tax shift for the construction sector. This sector, taking into account the shiftwork and other previous provisions, has a differential of gains: what the construction really receives, given the general shift tax, is limited. The total wage differential between one hour's work by a skilled worker of class 1, level 1, at home, or second stage, or even a manoeuvre, is such, with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, that, despite all the checks on compliance with the laws, everything that can be done at Belgian and European level will be powerless. To believe that we are going to be able to fully establish equal competition is obviously audacious. Consideration should be given to specific reductions in construction loads. We are also doing so, but first of all, we are giving priority to the tax shift measures and to the fiscal trajectory!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-07-54-commissie-ic436x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I'll make a line, which is normal. I wouldn't want you to stay without it! I will start with the directive and the yellow card. Let's be precise! Directive 96 was amended by a directive approved by the European authorities, namely Directive 67 of 2014. That's the one that Mr. de Lamotte referred to. It should be transcribed into Belgian law by 18 June. Of course, you will reply to me that several directives are not transposed by the date set. Nevertheless, in view of the importance of the subject, and since a will has been expressed, I would like to say, like La Fontaine: to arrive on time, it is necessary to leave on time. Therefore, it would have been necessary to anticipate the situation in order to transpose this directive into Belgian law. Another thing is Mrs Thyssen's draft directive, which is the subject of the so-called yellow card procedure. In this case, it is contested by a dozen Eastern European countries. However, the one for 2014 has to be transposed. Then we don't want to de-zinguate your entire device. I repeat that it contains positive aspects that we welcome and support. I am talking about measures to combat social dumping and to strengthen services. Nevertheless, we believe that, on some points, the government does not go far enough. I fully acknowledge your willingness to be active in the fight against social dumping. You say you're not slow. However, as far as the directive is concerned, that is the case. It was possible to transpose it earlier. But there's still time to do it. You're talking about a total will. Will, yes; but total, no. Since the Rio Olympic Games will be held soon, the motto "Later, faster, stronger" should be applied. For the rest, I won't repeat myself. You mentioned the differences in public procurement and joint and several liability – which is precisely the subject of the transposition. It is possible to go faster, further, stronger. Everyone can draw their conclusions from your proposals. In my view, the groups converge on the need to combat this phenomenon at all levels. We will evaluate your measurements and review their results in the coming months. In any case, we support you in what needs to be done. We are waiting for you and your colleagues in view of this challenge, which is obviously cross-cutting. Colleagues, if there are no further requests for intervention, I think we can close our meeting. This was a fruitful exchange of views. On the content, you brought notes and figures. The exchange of views had been constructive, but the debate was far from over. I would remind you that there will be a report for this exchange of views which we can refer to.
