ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u1	Madam Chair, Minister, the Glyphosate registration is coming to an end on June 30th. The question of its renewal is at the centre of intense controversy. In March 2015, the International Cancer Research Centre of the World Health Organization (WHO) classified glyphosate as a "probable carcinogen" for humans. At the end of last year, on the contrary, the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) considered it "unrobable" to be carcinogenic. There is therefore a disagreement between WHO and EFSA experts. It should be added that many citizens' associations are challenging EFSA's procedures. In particular, there is a lack of transparency regarding the identity of the experts involved and the basic studies used to develop the EFSA positon. More recently, a second WHO study, conducted in partnership with FAO, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, classified the pesticide as "probably not carcinogenic". Minister, the situation is therefore rather confused. Many consider that, in the face of these uncertainties, the precautionary principle must prevail by prohibiting glyphosate. On 19 May, the technical committee responsible for deciding on the renewal of the authorisation of glysphosate postponed its vote. The European Commission has decided to postpone the vote, for lack of a qualified majority among the Member States. France and Italy are opposed to the renewal of the authorisation. Mr Minister, what was the precise proposal of the European Commission to be put to the vote on 19 May? Which countries are in favour and who are opposed to renewing the authorisation of glyphosate? The European Commission has only a few weeks to take a decision, with the authorisation of glyphosate expiring on 30 June. What is the continuation of the procedure? Finally, what is Belgium's position in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u2	Mr. Minister, the glyphosate and, behind it, the products that result from it and that associate other substances with glyphosate, especially to make the Roundup, are on the news and are experiencing some rebounds. My question dates from 18 May, before the in camera meeting of the Committee of National Experts on 18 and 19 May, which had the task of deciding on the European Commission's proposal to extend the marketing authorisation for glyphosate by nine or ten years, rather than fifteen years, as the Commission wanted a few months ago. Things changed during this expert committee meeting. They did not go until the decision-making, probably lacking the guarantee of having a sufficient majority and, above all, questioned by certain elements having appeared over the weeks. These concern the lack of independence in carrying out the studies requested by the European Food Safety Authority, since part of the study had been entrusted to the Glyphosate Task Force, of which Syngenta and Monsanto are members. There had been no publication of the names of the experts conducting the study, and refusal of producers such as Syngenta and Monsanto in the publication of studies and reports. As a result, public opinion was concerned, and scientific experts offered different opinions, making us unable to know who serves or serves the interests of firms or real scientific interests concerning health. In view of all this, the decision was postponed. Apparently, at the new meeting scheduled for June 6, 2016, there will be another proposal to extend the authorisation of glyphosate until mid-2017 only rather than nine years, given the risks of carcinogenicity and scientific uncertainties. In my initial question, I told you that it was surprising that we continued to want to make decisions before we had the results of all the studies because several additional studies were requested, including the study at the European Chemicals Agency, whose results are expected by the end of 2017. I was thinking that they would rest on that and not answer until they had the results of the supplementary studies. However, according to what I have read, in any case in a press release from the Agence française de presse, an extension would be allowed until mid-2017. That is what would be proposed to the Member States. Minister, this is a question that I have already asked on several occasions. I am particularly interested here in the requirements of Belgian representatives regarding the quality and transparency of the studies and the references on which they will be based and the link between these different studies and reports, the precautionary principle and the political decision whether or not to extend a substance authorisation such as glyphosate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u3	Madam President, honourable Member, this is a matter to which I attach the utmost attention, as is the case with all the dossiers for applications for authorisation submitted to us or concerning the positioning at European level on pesticides in general. We are also very committed and this commitment will be further developed, particularly in the context of the Belgian pesticide reduction plan concerning a number of additional precautionary measures concerning professionals or individuals. It is my belief that I really give all the necessary attention to all the analyses, reactions and comments that are addressed to me in the context of this dossier. I would like to take this opportunity to point out that this attention does not allow a number of purely defamatory elements which are published from time to time. It is my intention to reserve proper follow-up to what is purely defamatory, adversarial and in front of the truth. As far as all the other elements are concerned, we have a shared position with Maggie De Block, Minister of Health and also doctor, with the support of the Minister of the Environment. Our position is common and defended at European level. First of all, I would like to give details of the positions of the countries as they were registered on 18 and 19 May. At that meeting, 19 Member States expressed their support for the European Commission's proposal. Two Member States voted against France and Italy, and the other Member States abstained. As a result, more Member States have expressed their support for this proposal than for the previous proposal. I would point out that this proposal included a nine-year extension, as well as elements related to biodiversity as well as to the association of co-formulants. However, this proposal did not have the required majority in terms of representation as a percentage of the European population, which is why it could not be accepted. As far as the state of the art is concerned, the committee and the committees of experts have made a number of additional contacts and have made a proposal for a temporary extension of the authorisation of glyphosate. This temporary authorisation would expire at the end of 2017 and, at the earliest, six months after receiving the opinion of the European Chemicals Agency, this famous opinion which is expected and which I also look forward to. Indeed, as you pointed out very correctly, Mr Senesael, we have a whole series of opinions in this case, including that of the WHO working group which made a great deal of noise and classified glyphosate as probably carcinogenic. Since then, several positions by WHO itself, FAO, the European EFSA Agency, the US Agency have invalidated this proposal for classification issued by the WHO Working Group. We therefore find ourselves with a work carried out by EFSA which was submitted to our experts, to the public health administration and to the Higher Institute of Public Health, which I met personally in order to be able to define with them the Belgian position. Today, we find ourselves extremely dominant, whether it is the international organisations themselves, our European Agency or the studies that have been collated by this European agency (nearly 800), with an opinion that actually leads to granting the extension of glyphosate under certain conditions. The Belgian position is also guided by the greatest precautionary principle. I would remind you that in 2015, 65 Belgian applications for an extension of the authorisation of various pesticides were submitted to me. Of these, 17 were refused. As far as our position is concerned, we also take into account existing or non-existing alternatives to the risks posed by alternative products, if any, and the possibilities of exercising them in agricultural, horticultural or private weeding activities. Believe that the principle of the preservation of public health is a principle that absolutely motivates us. At the same time, if every time an alert occurred, if every time a report, it was eminently respectable but otherwise denied by a whole series of agencies, by our own administration, by our own institute, by our own experts, indicated elements that had to change our attitude, if we had to change our position each time, you would agree that it would not be a correct line that we would adopt. In this case, first of all, Belgium is extremely careful. Secondly, at this stage, we are maintaining the proposal to support an extension, pending the opinion of this European Chemicals Agency. On the other hand, we have tightened the previous position, not in the current process, but in the Belgian position that previously existed, especially with regard to association with co-formulants, since we have explicitly requested that in particular with regard to tallowamine, it be prohibited to use glyphosate associated with a number of co-formulants. It seems that it is in this association that the greatest potential or potential dangers lie. I sum up: a comprehensive approach, reduction of pesticides - not only about a molecule but in a more coordinated and structured way; a precautionary principle; a sharing of this decision with my colleague in charge of public health and also a doctor; an extremely careful preparation at Belgian level with a meeting at the highest level between our public health administration and the Higher Institute of Public Health; a tightening of conditions at Belgian level; and, finally, a reflection on possible alternatives as regards this position. We will then have the opportunity to return to you after 6 or 7 June, since it is at that time that an intermediate position, at least at European level, will be decided. I take this opportunity to invite those who would question - I have read a number of things - the rigorous analysis of our departments, our officials, the government, who would see the hand of lobbies, etc. to bring elements that support these totally dishonest accusations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u4	Mr Minister, first of all, I thank you for your comprehensive and recontextualized analysis of the problem. A few replicas, if you'll allow me. I am talking about a specific objective - as you have also pointed out - that is the preservation of public health. From the moment we move on from this objective, we must remain committed to the precautionary principle, which is my case. I felt my opinion, my position, but it is not in the intention of the quidam I am to question the scientific analyses of the experts. And in front of the scientific analysis, I bow. We therefore look forward to the opinion of the agency you cited. This will require extreme attention, in the light of those who have already been registered. I will allow myself to complete the analysis once this opinion has been issued and to come back to you in June.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u5	Minister, I think it is important, when we talk about scientific studies and references, to mean who the authors are and whether there are conflicts of interest. This is a scientific approach required of any scientist, which has not been respected by some here. It is also important to clarify the framework and scope of the studies conducted. Studies have been conducted, and this is the case with the agency, on glyphosate alone. The WHO study considered glyphosate with the various adjuvants and formulations with which it is associated. The latest WHO study cited is a partial study, which focuses on the purely food dimension, the presence of glyphosate in food. The scope is therefore limited. The risks of using this type of product are also related to application. I have already had the opportunity on several occasions to mention to you this case of neighbours of large fields, in Germany, which have in their urine too high a rate of glyphosate. This is obviously linked to the application. I think that if I were a producer of the product, I would also try to achieve this kind of result, to cut out the research so as to arrive at some data according to which, in that use, in that way, in fact, the carcinogen is not likely or the risk is not recognised. And everything else, we're gonna pretend it doesn't exist. I think that scientific rigour would require that every time, what is brought about, what is not covered by studies, and how the elements are globalized. As far as our Belgian institutes and bodies are concerned, they have not done any specific study. They have read studies, interpreted studies and considered the advice given by other bodies to be necessarily reliable. This is not a wealth and an explosion of studies in addition to each other to prove health safety. Your Minister of the Environment said that glyphosate was a carcinogenic herbicide that must be banned. I'd say there's not such a great deal of unanimity. But I am pleased that the European Commission, despite this majority of states you are quoting, this majority of opinion, that "everyone agrees that there is no risk"... despite this, they do not have the majority to be able to do so and they are forced to reduce the duration of an authorisation without interruption. Finally, they agreed that the future study should be awaited and that the extension should not in any case exceed that period. One thing concerns me about that in your answer. You mentioned an extension until the end of 2017, or at least six months after the results. But was it at the earliest or at the latest?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u6	It is at the earliest six months after receipt of the notice. If the opinion comes in September, it will be two more months.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u7	This is going to be submitted. It's not adopted yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u8	We will see the precise wording of the decision when it comes to it. In all transparency, I will allow myself to convey it to you, as is the opinion of the authority concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u9	It is important to say that there will be results. I think the logic would be to say "maximum six months after the results", with authorisation not exceeding six months. So, between "at the earliest" or "at the latest", I don't know what the most appropriate terms are. We will not fail to follow the current developments and positions regarding the proposal to be made to the Member States on 6 June 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u10	Minister, the Social Heating Fund vzw was set up to support low-income people who heat their homes with house heating oil. It contributes partly to the payment of the heating bill of persons at risk of energy poverty. It is an initiative of the government, the OCMWs and the petroleum sector. Persons entitled to benefit from the intervention of the Social Heating Fund are, on the one hand, persons entitled to an increased sickness and invalidity insurance scheme and with a maximum annual gross taxable income. On the other hand, these are other persons with the same maximum annual gross taxable income equal to EUR 17 303, plus an amount per dependent person. Finally, persons in debt mediation who cannot pay their heating bills may also call on the fund. However, practice has shown that these criteria are inadequate for some time. After all, the fund can also be used by people who do not really need intervention. The government agreement therefore provides that the social energy funds will be evaluated and, where appropriate, restructured or adapted. Mr Frank Wilrycx submitted a written question on this subject. You replied in October 2015 that you and Minister Marghem would meet the Social Heating Fund to optimise its operation and that you would launch a study on the social energy funds in 2016. This would include an additional evaluation of the criteria for the allocation of the fuel oil fund. Minister, has the meeting with Minister Marghem already taken place? If so, what was the outcome? Has a study on the social energy funds already been commissioned? If so, which aspects will be examined? The current eligibility conditions may mean that people with a low pension but still have a well-stocked savings book available from the Social Heating Fund. Do you think this should change? If so, in what direction do you think?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u11	For me, energy is a vital need that guarantees a decent life. The government agreement also provides that the social energy funds (gas, electricity and fuel oil) will be evaluated and, where appropriate, restructured or adapted. I would like to start a brief study on the social energy funds. The aim of this study will be to thoroughly evaluate all these social energy funds, such as the Fuel Oil Fund and the Gas and Electricity Fund. On this basis, a global vision can be developed and, if necessary, the necessary changes can be made to optimise the use of these funds by people in need. This study could in particular be the subject of an analysis of the categories of beneficiaries under the Fuel Oil Fund and of recommendations on this subject. There is still consultation with my colleague Marie-Christine Marghem, Minister for Energy, on the steps to be taken to evaluate these funds and on the consultations to be planned with the various partners. It goes without saying that I will communicate the conclusions of those studies whenever possible, so as soon as they are known. I will also do everything in my power to improve the operation of these funds, in particular by working with my fellow ministers of economic and energy policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u12	Madam President, Minister, have I understood correctly that the study has not yet been started and that the mandate has yet to be given? The question has only been asked because such funds should end up with those they most need. We shall therefore follow up the dossier in greater detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u13	Madam President, I need the budgetary framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u14	Questions No 10709 by Mrs Ben Hamou and No 10999 by Mrs Van Peel are postponed. Joined Questions Nos 11005 and 11096 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu and Van Peel are also postponed, as are Question No 11097 by Mrs Van Peel. Question No 11215 by Mr Dallemagne is also postponed. Question No 11434 by Mrs Lanjri is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u15	Madam President, Minister, my question is indeed about support for our fruit growers. After Russia and Europe were on a collision course in 2014, Russia suddenly issued a boycott for European agricultural products. For Belgian fruit production, this was of course a good deal, because no less than 30% of our Belgian pears and 10% of the apples were exported to Russia. Fortunately, in response to this, Europe introduced a number of support measures to give fruit growers the opportunity to explore other markets and to try to maintain prices somewhat. Among other things, EUR 10.85 million flowed to the Belgian fruit sector. That support ends at the end of June, but the Russian blockade still exists. The aid stops, but the blockade is still there, although it was announced that it would last only one year. Minister, will you at European level call for an extension of the aid? If not, why not? If so, under what conditions, for what amounts and from when? New markets, such as China and Canada, have been and are still being searched hard, and our products are also being promoted. You have already provided a strengthening of the services responsible for supporting exports within the BFSA, including by providing additional annual funding of 1.5 million euros. Can you specify exactly what these resources are used for? What results does the BFSA wish to obtain with these resources? Are you still planning measures to assist fruit growers in their search for new markets? If so, what are you planning? How's the sector at the moment? Is the sector oversupplying? Can you give me more details on that? How big is that, even compared to previous years?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u16	Madam President, at the European Agriculture Council on 17 May last, European Commissioner for Agriculture, Phil Hogan, confirmed that the aid scheme for fruit and vegetables would be extended until the end of June 2017, but that this support will not be very high, nor will it be very high, nor will it be tonnage. The Commission intends to reduce the eligible volumes by 70%, which I consider to be abnormally excessive, because the situation remains very worrying in the sector. The price paid to Belgian apple producers is currently below their production costs. According to the draft Regulation under discussion within the Commission services, between 1 July 2016 and 30 June 2017, the financial support from the European Union would cover as much as possible the withdrawal, non-harvesting or green harvesting of 137 700 tonnes of apples and pears, of which 25 700 tonnes for Belgium. I shall, of course, continue to follow very closely the evolution of the Commission's work on this dossier. As regards the work of the International Cell of the BFSA, the budgets were used as follows: EUR 750 000 was used to recruit additional staff, namely 12 persons working on phytosanitary and sanitary dossiers, with a view to opening up new export markets; EUR 480 000 was used to develop the application of BECERT, an IT application for the submission of applications and the electronic allocation of export certificates, which represents a significant administrative simplification for exporters. Finally, EUR 240 000 was provided for the renewal of the English-language website. This will facilitate access for third country authorities to online information on the organisation, operation and activities of the BFSA and on the sanitary status of the animals and plants of our country. I am convinced that this strategy is necessary and will make it possible to create added value for all the links in the food chain, including our farmers and fruit growers. It is up to the sectors to find new markets together with the competent regional authorities and to set priorities. The BFSA then takes up its role as coordinator in close cooperation with the parties concerned as sanitary and/or phytosanitary barriers need to be removed. I will act personally in the Belgian sanitary dossiers that can create value in our country. At the beginning of April I signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Chinese Deputy Minister for Agriculture, Mr Qu Dongyu. Last year, during a meeting with my Brazilian colleague, Mrs Katia Abreu, I discussed the export of Belgian pears to Brazil. These contacts are often of prime importance in the context of sanitary agreements. The fruit sector has been facing overproduction since the beginning of the Russian embargo. As I have said several times in committee, our farmers are the victims of political tensions for which they have not chosen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. On the one hand, it is good that the aid is being extended, but, as you yourself say, it is very little. It's a drop on a hot plate. It is actually a bit symbolic, but not very efficient and effective for the fruit growers themselves. So it is really dramatic that Europe is making so little effort. This is a huge problem for our Belgian fruit growers. It is also good that you yourself make efforts with additional resources that go to the BFSA to look for new markets. We can only welcome this with IT systems. I just hope that new export markets can be opened up very quickly so that there can be more exports. I'm hoping for a quick result. I know that you are committed to this and that within your powers you are doing everything you can to meet it. Chapeau! That can also be said. I hope that the other ministers will do the same within their powers and that they will look at what they can do at regional level. In any case, this matter must be closely monitored. We had hoped that the Russian embargo would end after one year, but unfortunately that is not the case. I hope that more action can be called for at European level. I thank you in advance and I would also like to receive the figures I asked for.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u18	Madam President, Minister, the AFSCA currently has 11 provincial control units (PCUs) in which, if my figures are correct, approximately 700 employees work. It would appear that you are exploring the possibility of in-depth reform of the AFSCA structure by merging provincial control units. Minister, can you tell us more about your intentions and give us the reasons for considering the merger of UPCs, if that is the case? Would there be budgetary reasons for you to think about this possibility? Can you also explain to us what future you are looking for for these UPCs at the level of their missions? Finally, do you not fear that the merger of these provincial control units will lead to job losses?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u19	Madam President, Minister, my question goes in the same direction. I understand that the BFSA proposes to split one of the five provincial control units on the Flemish side and to add them to two other provinces. Part of Flemish Brabant would be added to East Flanders and the other part to Limburg. The auditors and administrative staff of the PCE Flemish Brabant would be assigned according to their place of residence, either to East Flanders or to Limburg. According to the people of the PCE Flemish Brabant could be saved in a much more efficient way, without the shutting down of the well-running unit of Flemish Brabant. They claim that in practice only a small part of the employees will be transferred to East Flanders and that most of the inspectors will end up in Limburg, just like all the administrative staff of Flemish Brabant. If that is true, there will be a major imbalance in the staff of the PCEs. This would also entail additional costs, such as increased mileage allowances, removal costs and additional locations. I understand that some people think that it would be much better to improve the non-central location of the PCEs in Antwerp and West Flanders, so that efficiency would be much higher. I have the following questions. Is it true that the BFSA wants to shut down the PCE Flemish Brabant? If so, what deadline are we talking about? Is it not better to reorganise the BFSA in another way, for example by establishing the existing PCEs in a more central place in the provinces? Is it true that the PCEs of East Flanders and Limburg cannot accommodate the extra staff and that a new location needs to be sought?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u20	Madam President, Mrs Jiroflée, Mr Crusnière, thank you for your questions. As previously stated, I received a proposal from the management of the BFSA regarding the possible restructuring of the provincial control units of the BFSA. The management of the BFSA proposes the reduction from eleven to eight PCEs, namely, firstly, the division of the PCE Flemish Brabant into two parts, with respectively a merger with Limburg and with East Flanders. Secondly, the division of the UPC Walloon Brabant into two parts, merging here also with the UPCs of Liège and Hainaut. Finally, the merger of the Luxembourg and Namur UPCs. The objective is to ensure the continuity of the basic tasks in times of budgetary savings and the maintenance of the minimum competences within each PCE. By reducing the number of VTEs and shifting the frequency of inspection within certain sectors, certain PCEs are no longer able to have all the necessary competences to ensure their control tasks. The enlargement of the UPCs allows them to reach a size sufficient to respond to these developments, by reducing the share of administrative logistical and managerial tasks in relation to inspection activities as such, bringing, says the pre-report of the management of the AFSCA, "a gain in efficiency". Finally, according to this report, "one of the objectives of the reform is to adapt the proper functioning of the structures of the AFSCA to the current circumstances and needs fifteen years after the establishment of this body". I am listening to the thinking exercise that makes it possible to organise these services more efficiently, without, of course, touching on our high level of food safety. However, the final decision has not been taken. After all, I asked for a more detailed analysis, in particular on the impact of the project on staff, the concrete installation of the accommodation of the services concerned, the expected cost savings of the BFSA and the way in which services to consumers and operators can be guaranteed. With this in mind, I believe that the proximity of both the AFSCA staff and the operators, partners and citizens concerned by the Agency's services is an important criterion. Of course, I have requested that the various aspects of this issue be considered. These elements will determine the final choices that I will make in the dossier and which I will, of course, inform you of when I have been able to study all the necessary elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u21	Minister, thank you for your answers. I note that it is on the proposal of the AFSCA that consideration is being given, since there is not yet a decision, to the recasting of the UPCs. I'm going to speak for my chapel, namely the Walloon Brabant that you know well to come there regularly. I feel like once again, the Walloon Brabant is going to be the stuffing turkey. We have a specific unit in Walloon Brabant. In other cases that I could quote from you, we have also removed services to link them sometimes to Namur, sometimes to Liège, sometimes to Hainaut, with results that really left to be desired. You spoke, at the end of your speech, of the necessary proximity. It is indeed known that the UPCs carry out proximity actions that are important and require a presence on the ground. I really plead for you to analyze this carefully. I plead that we can leave his to the Walloon Brabant. Even if I hear that it is necessary to set up larger UPCs, I really ask that account be taken of the specific nature of Walloon Brabançon territory and that the resources be put in place. Again, savings measures are likely to affect the effectiveness of UPCs. If that is the reason, I ask that we inject the means or that in any case, we favour maintaining a UPC for the Walloon Brabant.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u22	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I note that it is a proposal from the BFSA itself. I am pleased to hear that you want to examine this further and that you want to have in-depth analyses, both in terms of funding and in terms of operation. I share my colleague's concern: even in Flemish Brabant, the centre of the country, it sometimes seems as if it should only be taken with the rest. I'm already positive when I hear you say proximity is important. I would nevertheless urge that this analysis be carried out in a very thorough manner. We have just had another incident, food safety is often at risk. The operation of the BFSA is particularly important in our country. I am a little worried if on that kind of important operation, which we know will always be more important, will be saved in an unthought-out way, where proximity would no longer be so important. When it comes to small or temporary matters, it is particularly important to be in the vicinity so that things really happen. That is the great strength of the BFSA. That is why I will continue to look at it with a critical eye. I hope you're making the right decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u23	Mr. Blanchart has arrived. We're juggling a little, aren't we, Minister? But flexibility is part of our qualities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u24	Ah, if you also plead flexibility...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u25	Mental flexibility! [[laughter]] Measured and anticipated! Mr Blanchart, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u26	Minister, a convoy of 70 Belgian cattle has been blocked at the Bulgarian-Turkish border since the end of April. The blockage is due to an administrative error committed during the authorisation to leave Belgian territory. Once the convoy has left Belgium, respect for the welfare of the animals is the responsibility of the operator, it is his responsibility. As a result, the AFSCA cannot do much to deal with this situation. GAIA, the most influential animal protection association and one of the best known in Belgium, denounces abuse. It calls on Belgian ministers in charge of animal welfare to act, but they are not competent outside Belgian territory. Initially, the Turkish authorities had decided to slaughter these animals. Since then, it has become apparent that they would have changed their minds. What about the fate of these animals? What is the decision taken by the Turkish authorities? What about any compensation for the farmer? Can you provide us with more information on this administrative error? Are such errors common? If so, are any measures taken to ensure that these do not happen again?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u27	Dear colleague, we will forward the answer to Mrs Dedry, who also asked a question on the subject. This transport is indeed the first for which such problems have been identified. There is a continuous exchange of cattle between the Member States of the European Union. Exports of cattle to countries outside the European Union, called third countries, are relatively rare. The export of cattle to Turkey began in December 2015. From an agricultural point of view, this is an important issue, even if it is not the heart of your question. Until the time we drafted the answer, ten transports were carried out and took place without problems at the Turkish border. Before I speak on this specific case, I would first like to explain the normal procedure that must be followed when certifying transport. Above all, the operator, the one who sends cattle, must make sure that his file is completely in order. The export file can be consulted for any type of export. It must be clear that the operator in question did not comply with the instructions or recommendations contained in the instructions file. A very clear file with all the export rules is available for those who want to export. In this case, repeated visits were necessary and many documents were still to be regularized during the final five-hour certification period. Despite the difficulties, a great deal of time and flexibility were required for the services to ensure that the export file was properly put in order. As certification has been postponed at the request of the operator concerned, this famous 21-day delay, which triggered the problem with the Turkish authorities, has therefore been exceeded by three days, despite all the efforts of the services concerned. In any event, the animal health certification of bovine animals could be certified as the animal health status of bovine animals was unchanged and was correct. This certification remained under the control of the AFSCA. As the cattle were staying at the border inspection post, they were located in Turkish territory and were therefore subject to Turkish regulations and legislation. It is important to know that the owner is and remains responsible for the health and welfare of the animals. The authorities must of course carry out the checks of use. The jurisdiction of the AFSCA is limited to our national territory. However, prior to departure, a journey log must be submitted by the operator. It shall describe the route taken by the truck(s), as well as any recognized places where the animals will rest and be fed. Stops must be recorded on the spot in the journey log by the official veterinarian at the rest points recognised in the Member States. This transport journey log must then be sent back to the competent authority for inspection – which therefore takes place a posteriori. As you can see, the mechanics for organizing the long-range transport of live animals are very strict. In the present case, as soon as the original refusal was made, the owner carrier should have taken the necessary steps directly - therefore, at the Turkish border - to ensure animal welfare, for example by seeking temporary accommodation or another destination for animals. As soon as we were informed, AFSCA and I actively sought solutions in consultation with the authorities concerned, including the Turkish authorities. In the light of this very deplorable situation, which I strongly denounce and which is the result of a lack of respect for the rules of organisation by the carrier concerned, I must inform you that, in addition to the animal health obligations - which are always monitored at the time of certification - more stringent control will also be exercised over the periods of validity and treatment imposed, as well as in terms of blood tests and the duration of quarantine prior to export. It is this question of the validity period of certification that would be problematic here. To be very clear, for export certification to proceed smoothly, practical agreements on applications must be scrupulously complied with and late applications will now be refused. The services had tried to find a solution in relation to this contractor, but ultimately, as the deadline had not been met, the problem finally arose. Finally, I must point out that animal welfare is a matter which is now regionalised but, notwithstanding this, the Belgian authorities have supported a revision of the provisions on long-term transport. In short, we are very careful to ensure that animal welfare and the rules for doing so are respected in the context of animal transport, but of course also in other contexts. In short, strict rules to remember, a whole series of transports that have not caused problems, a mechanics that is planned and with rest areas, feeding animals, etc. – in this case, there would obviously be a responsibility of the operator concerned – and our attitude.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u28	Minister, thank you for your answers. That's very enlightening. This is a school case which demonstrates the solidity of the organisation of all these administrative procedures which have many beacons. It's a completely isolated case and it's reassuring.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u29	Minister, on February 18 and May 15, in the plenary of the House, I asked the Deputy Prime Minister responsible for the Digital Agenda, Mr. Alexander De Croo, about the future of the digital and collaborative economy in our country. In a very concrete way, they are on-line platforms, extremely popular and innovative, that connect individuals in small services, in sectors as diverse as transport, catering or housing. In my speech, I stressed that this future sector should be encouraged, that its actors deserved support and that the applicable rules needed to be clarified. The government, through Deputy Prime Minister De Croo, has since announced very concrete measures to clarify the regulations in force and to adapt taxation in this sector. I can only welcome this important initiative: the digital and collaborative economy represents the future, it must be supported. One of the sectors in which this type of savings is strongly growing is that of restoration. Indeed, a wide range of applications and websites offer the sale of meals made by individuals at home. In this regard, last December, AFSCA published a series of rules in this sector in a document entitled "Confection of meals at home and sale via the Internet or social media". To cite a few examples, individuals must register as a "treater" or "restaurant" with AFSCA, have a company number or scrupulously comply with a range of legislation on labelling, hygiene or traceability of food. Although it is imperative that basic hygiene or commercial law rules be followed by all, conditions that are too restrictive and/or inappropriate for this sector may constitute an obstacle to the proper development of this economy. Moreover, there must be a necessary complementarity and therefore appropriate and differentiated rules, both for the actors in the collaborative economy, on the one hand, and for those in the horeca sector (restaurants or caterers), on the other. The development of one must not be at the expense of the other, but we must act in a balanced way in favour of one and the other. Minister, I would like answers to the following questions. Have there been any consultations between the AFSCA, the services of the Deputy Prime Minister Alexander De Croo and those involved in the collaborative digital economy, prior to the preparation of the above-mentioned document on making meals at home and selling via the Internet? Has a study been carried out prior to its publication on the impact of these rules on the sector of this developing digital economy? Is a balanced change in the rules for making meals at home and selling them via the Internet and social media currently under consideration, in synergy with Minister De Croo's actions and more broadly within the federal government? Have specific measures already been adopted at this stage? If so, could you communicate them to us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u30	Mr President, thank you for your question. As you rightly point out, the development of the collaborative and/or digital economy is expanding and needs our full attention. As you know, the government has recently taken steps, which will be submitted to you through the program law, to positively adapt our regulatory framework to this new form of economy, as long as it is exercised through platforms and retains an occasional character. My colleague Mr. Alexander De Croo had the opportunity to present the arrangements organized by the government in this regard. Very positive arrangements have been made for activities of less than EUR 5 000 per year, which are carried out through a platform. At the same time, the government wished to recall that it did not intend to create discrimination against traditional activity. The general public and traditional operators would not understand why "more traditional" activity would be penalized by the emergence of a new economy, which also has full legitimacy. As this framework and these fundamental principles are recalled, I come to the catering sector, even if it is not the only one concerned by the evolution of this collaborative economy. You've seen the taxi industry and other service sectors. I am also very attentive to the recent judicial decisions in this area. Let me turn specifically to the horeca sector. On the one hand, following the finding of the development of Internet sales via platforms and, on the other hand, following the submission of certain complaints, the Food Agency carried out some checks with these platforms last summer by heads or other organisations of this kind. I would like to point out here that these are not occasional activities. I would also like to point out that these are not non-profit activities or associative, festive, etc. This is not intended for casual activities, not-for-profit activities, or activities outside the economic framework. However, in the case of activities that are sufficiently regular in nature, in the course of its controls, the CBSA has had to find, on the one hand, a total absence of registration of any activity with both the Carrefour Bank and the AFSCA; on the other hand, a lack of knowledge of the minimum rules of good hygiene practice and various other shortcomings. Following these observations, as you point out, with the SPF Economy, we invited the manager of the platform to enable him, with full knowledge, to inform his members about the social, administrative and health obligations related to food security. My vision is that the same basic rules should apply to any person engaged in an economic activity, whether as an operator in the food chain or not. Otherwise, there would be a misunderstanding as to whether the rules are different for the small tavern in the corner and the one that produces meals from a platform. And above all, I insist, we would take an obvious health and food risk. I dare not imagine the outcry of food poisoning from a well-known activity of the authorities, which would not have been monitored with regard to minimum compliance with the standards. As a result of this meeting, an informative document was published for this developing sector. This is an explanation of the rules in force, including the elements for easing the rules in general for operators. Let it be the respect of national rules, the respect of European rules, in short, of everything that makes the regulatory framework of the sector. As far as these rules for food security are concerned, I believe they already allow us to meet the expectations of those who are embarking on this activity. I'm really listening and I'm going to receive a number of people again. But whether orders are made through collaborative economy arrangements or more traditional methods, or "old-fashioned", I think that compliance with health and food safety rules is an important element. As much as I try to relax the rules in general for processing and small producers, to set up mediation mechanisms, to ensure administrative simplification in general, etc., so much as I am not prepared, as far as I am concerned, to write rules that would be different for one sector from another. If that were the case, you would understand the extent to which traditional players and the general public would find themselves in a situation of incomprehension with regard to this form of incorrect competition between players in the same sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u31	Minister, thank you for your well-substantiated answer. You're used to it in this Parliament. I obviously agree with your analysis. Indeed, one of these activities should not develop at the expense of the other or should not leave the feeling that it would be so. I am particularly interested in this issue and have been contacted by various actors in this collaborative economy – which I have met –, an economy that, as you say, affects various themes: transport, housing, food. Most of these actors, as you said yourself, are very open and very positive with regard to regulation and really want to be part of a framework that respects standards, legislation, etc. I think there is ample room for these activities to develop, in complementarity with the "more traditional" sectors. I take note that you have already had contacts and that you will still have some to try to move forward. Sometimes it's very small things that can be adapted or explained. I think dialogue is important. I know you're a man of dialogue. The various consultations that you will have in the future may help to dispel some misunderstandings and further refine certain rules in this area. We will, of course, follow this as it is developing and I think it should not stop in such a good way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u32	Madam President, Minister, France has decided to suspend until the end of the year the importation of dimethoate-treated cherries, an insecticide that protects the fruit against a fly, the suzukii drosophile. France, Italy and Spain have banned the use of this pesticide, but not Belgium. The French Minister of Agriculture has thus declared that he wants to protect French consumers from the health risk caused by this product. Our cherries producers are therefore likely to end up with their cherries on their arms, since so far around 40% of Belgian cherries were going to France. Minister, have you read this decision of France? Does the Belgian Institute of Public Health reach the same conclusions as France on the risk potential of dimethoate? What are the consequences of the triggering of France's safeguard clause with regard to dimethoate-treated cherries for our cherries producers? Since when is this safeguard clause effective?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u33	Madam President, Mrs Cassart, there are two aspects to the French decision on cherries treated with dimethoate. First of all, the prohibition of the use of dimethoate on cherries grown in France, on the one hand. This is a restriction on the national authorisation of this plant protection product, which has already been in force in France since the beginning of 016. On the other hand, there is a ban on the import of cherries from countries where dimethoate is allowed. France had initially asked to ban imports of processed cherries at European level, but it was not supported by the European Commission or by most other Member States. It therefore took a national measure prohibiting the import of cherries on 21 April, without a transitional period and until 31 December 2016. For these two measures, existing European legislation provides that they must be notified at European level. I was therefore informed of these French measures and immediately requested an evaluation from my administration, particularly in view of the impact on our fruit growers. The Committee for the Approval of Pesticides for Agricultural Use, in which the Belgian Scientific Institute of Public Health and the Regions are represented, has thus evaluated all available data. The committee concluded that the risk was very limited. This is due in particular to the difference in the situation between Belgium and France. Indeed, the conditions of use of this substance are stricter for us, with a minimum period of 28 days between the last spray and the harvest, whereas in France it is fourteen days. This explains in large part the risk of residues on fruit, which is more critical in France than in Belgium, since the delay is much shorter in our neighbours. The 36 cherries samples controlled by AFSCA in 2014 and 2015 on the Belgian market were all compliant in terms of compliance with the maximum residue limit. Believe me, if that had not been the case, I would have reacted immediately. Nevertheless, as you said, 40% of our cherries are in France. Our colleague has already mentioned the problems our producers are experiencing. The French decision casts doubt and creates difficulties. I then asked my administration to defend at European level an urgent re-evaluation of the maximum residue limits of this substance. This request was accepted. His execution is under way. Furthermore, as a precaution, we decided that the authorisation for the use of this product at Belgian level should be suspended pending this revision of the European maximum residue limits. Of course, I took this decision after consulting the sectors concerned. In the end, the aim was to manage the situation very quickly, to respond to French concerns and to give Europe time to take a decision and, if necessary, to carry out a complementary analysis. Holders of authorisations have waived the use of dimethoate in order to allow the export of Belgian cherries. In the meantime, the French authorities confirmed that they could therefore continue to be exported to France. So there are no consequences for our cherries producers. In short, consultations (concerts with the sector, scientific analyses, EU-level approaches) and pragmatism. On the basis of the precautionary principle, the European Union has been asked for complementary but pragmatistic analyses since, in consultation with the producers, we have at present renounced the use of this product. It is true to say that there are products for which there are few alternatives or few possible alternatives and there are products for which there are feasible alternatives. It seems – I am not a cherries specialist – that in this case there were feasible alternatives. That is what the representatives of the sector have told us. That is the story of the fight against the suzukii drosophile, which was not expected to be mentioned in this committee this morning in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u34	Neither is the dimethoate!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u35	Minister, thank you for the completeness of your answer. I am glad that a outcome has come about, but, as you said, this outcome is the result of consultation, a scientific analysis with a view to finding solutions. You have given our producers the opportunity to express themselves and find solutions in concert with you. It's really a win-win. As we have already seen in other sectors, obviously not being able to export cherries is not welcome, not to say a disaster for producers. I may not have the right term, but having found a solution in consultation, based on scientific analysis, with the help of AFSCA seems to me to be a superb solution and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u36	You see, sometimes, the appearance is deceptive. If we read, we say, "Here, we allow a product in Belgium and not in France." A priori, you might think that's not normal. But if we see: 28 days, 14 days, it is an element that obviously changes everything, as for other pesticides, biocides, fungicides, etc. I draw attention to this fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u37	We can have an opinion, but we don't know the background.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u38	(...) it's very easy. We're making a big statement about something. But to have an analysis with the sectors, scientifically, not to kill the sector, to ensure the precautionary principle, is obviously a work of a different nature and that is what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u39	It should now be ordered that the European Union be able to position itself. We have found a solution for 2016, for our producers, for export, in concert. I think this is really going in the right direction, even though there is still work to be done for 2017. You are absolutely right; too many times, we take a position without knowing the substance and the file in detail. The proof of this is, of course, 14 or 28 days, a position that must be quite different.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u40	It also makes it possible to draw attention to the need for and interest in seeking alternatives and the interest that sometimes there is also to change practices with the same product rather than to believe that one can never do otherwise.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u41	Minister, the web site fytoweb.be is an official public health FPS site offering every citizen the opportunity to obtain a great deal of valuable information about the nature, use and regulation of plant protection products and fertilizers. However, when a person wishes to navigate the site in German or English, a redirect page tells him or her to refer to the French- or Dutch-speaking versions of the domain. A limited language choice, which thus prevents access to information for users who do not have access to either of the two languages mentioned above. Minister, is a version of the website in German and English currently being written in your department? If so, can you already inform about a deadline by which you hope to see the English and German versions put online and fully operational?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u42	Mrs Jadin, your question and your comment seem to me to be entirely legitimate and relevant. The fytoweb site was completely updated on 30 March 2016. As a first step, it was decided to make the information available only in Dutch and French, thus reaching the majority, but not all the citizens and actors concerned, with the aim that as many of our citizens as possible could have access to this information. There is therefore a lack in this case. I note, however, that in the phytolicence section, only a few documents are published in German in view of the interest of this information to the general public. In addition, guidelines on the European authorisation process are available in English. I am well aware of the problem and of the fact that the availability, in both national languages only, of the largest number of texts must be improved. My administration has planned, with time constraints and, unfortunately, budget limits, to publish as much additional information as possible in German and English in the course of next year. I'd like to do better, but I insist that we be able to respond to your very sensible request. We must respect each and every one of our fellow citizens throughout the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u43	Mr Minister, thank you for your satisfactory response, since I note that the effort will be made by your department to provide the most relevant information on this site in English or German. If I asked this question, it is that there is real interest and this request comes from my region, which wishes to have this information in German or English.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u44	This is obviously a legitimate request.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u45	Mr. Minister, cash is dirty, in the proper sense. Transmission of coins and tickets carries thousands of bacteria. This is why more and more small food shops are equipped with sanitary boxes, in which the customer slips the money directly, without going through the hands of the trader or an employee. The approach is cleaner, in addition to being practical: one avoids cashier errors. The Syndicat National des Indépendants informs us that about 6% of food businesses are equipped with such a fund. However, the investment is not negligible: EUR 15 000 per sanitary fund, an important budget. Minister, is the use of sanitary caisses cleaner than conventional hand-by-hand cash payments? Does the AFSCA encourage the acquisition of this type of caisse? Do these caisses actually reduce cash errors and staff thefts? How much? Do you expect an increase in the number of sanitary boxes?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u46	Thank you, Congresswoman. I do not hide from you that in my personal capacity, doing the shopping regularly, I was questioned by the deployment of these crates, not the famous cash registers in the Horeca, but these 'hygienic' crates in the small shops; one could find them a more beautiful name by the way. Regardless of my personal questioning, I will try to answer your question. As far as your third and fourth sub-question is concerned, I would ask you to ask my colleagues in the economic field, in particular Mr Peeters. As regards your points 1 and 2 concerning the safety of the food chain, in general, the use of these funds offers a better guarantee, it seems, in terms of cleanliness and hygiene, than hand-to-hand payments. It should be noted, however, that contamination that could be caused by these contacts can be prevented by simple good hygiene practices, well known to operators, such as general hygiene of course, regular hand washing, or good practices in the food sector that AFSCA regularly recalls. As far as your second question is concerned, whether the AFSCA is encouraging the acquisition of this type of caisse: European regulations state that, of course, contamination of foodstuffs by staff, infrastructure, equipment and behaviour must be avoided. Any means used to minimize the risk of contamination is in itself positive. The AFSCA considers, however, that the existing hygiene requirements are sufficient to guarantee food safety and therefore does not intend to take action either to compel or to encourage the acquisition of these famous caisses. And for the rest, everyone thinks what they want. I think it's also charming to give his ticket and take back his coins, his change. But maybe it's my character that's too attached to the local business that plays tricks on me. This is not part of my official response.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u47	I thank the minister. I was also concerned when I read the article and saw the increased presence of this caisse in commerce. I would like to join you, Minister, in your analysis. Allowing everyone the freedom to do what he or she wishes is obviously indispensable in such cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u48	Madam Chair, Minister, this is an old issue, just as it is. Scheduled in the aftermath of the 22 March attacks, it had already been postponed. Minister, since 2003, CPAS has been given complementary means to stimulate the active participation of disadvantaged people in social, cultural and sporting life and to try to combat their isolation or exclusion, as a kind of first step towards reintegration into society. This is a topic that has been much discussed since the 1990s with actors on the ground and in the various initiatives taken. Policies to combat poverty must be discussed, debated and designed with the people concerned. I believe that this 2003 initiative is a result of that will. Since 2003, CPAS has had the means either to give individual benefits to people in precarious situations or to support specific events aimed at this particular audience. It should be recalled that Belgium chaired the European Union in the second half of 2010. Child poverty, in collaboration with the actors on the ground, was one of the central themes of our presidency. Since children were the first victims in these families, the will was to absolutely break this infernal spiral of poverty so that it would not be transmitted from one generation to the next. This obviously requires an overview, which no longer exists today. You don't feel any will, no action. Action should be taken to combat poverty in general and child poverty in particular. It is not your responsibility, although as Minister for Social Integration, you are obviously also concerned if there is not a series of preventive measures upstream. But that's not the point of my question. In order to compensate for the negative effects of the economic crisis, the Government had, in 2010, released an exceptional budget for vulnerable groups such as children in precarious situations, and had tried to provide resources to combat child poverty. This was reflected in the fact that CPAS had the means to prevent this reproduction of child poverty. I'm not going to go back to the numbers. All this is known: the financing of actions for participation in social programmes - school support, psychological support, paramedical support, educational tools - and actions aimed at socially integrating disadvantaged children. Still, there were two budgets in 2013, one of €6,796,000 for the "Participation and Social Activation" component and an amount of €4,288,000 for the "Combating Child Poverty" component. In 2014, these were the same amounts and in 2015 this second child poverty amount was reduced: €3,766,000 in 2015 and €3,743,600 in 2016. Unfortunately, child poverty has not been reduced. On the contrary, poverty has been rising in recent times as a result of a series of measures and contexts. Reducing this budget on child poverty seems to me to go in a completely contrary direction to what should be done. Minister, since you are responsible for these budget lines, what is the motivation for this decision to reduce this envelope, which is so important to combat child poverty? Does your government give up that goal? Otherwise, what are the means you are using to effectively combat this injustice to disadvantaged children?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u49	Mr. Member of Parliament and Honorary Secretary of State, thank you for your comments. I am very sensitive to your argument, which seems to me partially legitimate. Child poverty, what it represents, its reproduction throughout the generations and all the elements we know of this situation must be an element of constant attention for us. The fight against child poverty must be a priority. I am responding in concrete terms to your figures and your analysis. You are right, in the October 2014 budget notifications, there is a notification that optional subsidies in general will be subject to a linear reduction of 20% in 2015, and an additional 2% per year in 2016 and subsequent years until 2019. It is, of course, the budgetary objective of reorganising our public finances that led to this notification, which concerns all the optional subsidies. It is therefore a major effort on the part of the federal government, but also of the beneficiaries, in relation to these budgetary elements. As regards the Fund for Participation and Social Activation, it was reduced by 15%, not 20%, as is the case for other voluntary subsidies. It was partially spared part of this decrease. The specific envelope for combating child poverty on this basic allowance has been reduced by 12.1 per cent. Given the importance of this fund, in view of the above, I have made a number of important efforts to limit savings on these budget items and, as you know, in a budget context that remains difficult and tense. For 2016, compared to the 2% reductions I mentioned in the other departments in general, the additional reduction was limited to 0.6%. This decision was of course motivated by the importance of supporting initiatives to combat poverty, particularly child poverty. In addition, for 2014, I found an under-utilization of 11.5 per cent of the Fund for Participation and Social Activation, a somewhat paradoxical element. I therefore decided to introduce changes in the use of this fund in 2016 in order to make full use of the budget allocated. These changes are made in particular through the guaranteed minimum quota. In concrete terms, CPAS that have carried out more activities than permitted by the grant will use underutilization of others and will be fully or partially reimbursed for these additional activities, depending on the state of the subsidy surplus. This will ensure that the envelope is fully used for 2016. It is still a great deal to have a situation where efforts are made to save less in this department than in others, and to see an underutilization of the final amount. I think it was remedied for 2016. I announce to you – I mentioned this measure in my general policy note – that I am in the process of preparing a fairly substantial reform with the aim of being able to gather in a single fund with new criteria for allocation and allocation, all the means of subsidisation. I am thinking here of social activation, particularly in the area of poverty, but also of the big city subsidy, the Plan clusters, the Fund for Participation and Social Activation. I observed that the mechanics as currently organized were quite heavy. It seems to me to be quite a tutelary one, not respecting the autonomy of the CPAS, of the local authorities. I therefore intend to organise, on the basis of criteria, the distribution of these resources more smoothly and speedily, with particular attention, of course, to the means intended to combat child poverty. I am very sensitive to the message you delivered to me this morning, Mr. Delizée.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u50	Minister, thank you for your answer. Being sensitive and in good faith to child poverty is one thing. But political choices and actions must be consistent with that assertion. I have taken note of the figures you gave. You talked about your government's linear reduction policy. You said that in terms of social participation, we have saved less than the norm. As far as I am concerned, I believe that the fight against poverty should be a top political priority, all parties and all governments. Choices must be made and political will must be displayed. Today, the gap continues to widen, and more and more Belgians are expected to live below the poverty line. It is therefore urgent to hurry. It seems Mrs. Sleurs has a draft plan. Such a project, after two years, is a good thing, but action and, in particular, means are needed. And I would like to question here the choices made with regard to the allocation of State resources. Indeed, I do not believe that enough money is being spent on the fight against poverty, in particular against child poverty. If there's any underutilization of this fund, you teach me. How can you explain it? Should circulars be stimulated or issued? Are CPAS well informed? You tell me that, for 2016, the envelope will be spent in its entirety. I think that's the least I can do. If you submit a proposal for a reform of social activation, I will examine it carefully. I don't trust the reforms, because they don't always lead us to improvement. In any case, if we move towards a smooth and fast system, I take note of it. In conclusion, I believe that the fight against child poverty requires resources. Therefore, they should not be reduced, but more likely increase them and make the mechanism easily usable by actors in the field, in the first place CPAS.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u51	Mr Minister, in the preamble, I would like to point out that you announced to us, on the occasion of a previous parliamentary question, the opinion of the Council of State, which is due on 9 May. It was then suggested that it would be desirable to convene the committee to exchange this opinion. I believe, however, that you are not in favour of this type of practice and that you prefer to appear before us when the bills are introduced. The Council of State, in its opinion on your preliminary draft law on the merger between CPAS and municipalities, is unambiguously possible: since it modifies the institutional division of powers, it requires a law adopted by a special majority. No escape is possible for any of the scenarios envisaged by the government: make this merger compulsory, make it optional, entrust jurisdiction to the Regions or the municipalities. All these guidelines would require the adoption of a special law, i.e. with the addition of votes of parliamentarians who are not in the majority. Do you finally give up this project or do you intend to disregard the advice of the Council of State? Is it not urgent to devote your firm's energy to improving support for CPAS in the performance of their missions, at a time when those excluded from unemployment are growing in the ranks of CPAS users, and finding procedures for better meeting needs? If the answer to this question is yes, what procedure have you considered to replace this merger idea?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u52	Madam President, first of all, I am at the disposal of Parliament to organise debates. With regard to such texts, the opinion of the Council of State may completely change the framework of our exchanges, etc. A priori, while being open to certain general debates, the fact that questions and inquiries are addressed to me and that, if it is bought, we are starting to examine the preliminary draft, seems to me to correspond to what can be done in this type of case. I remain at the disposal of Parliament and it is with great pleasure that I spend a lot of time there. As far as your question is concerned, the opinion of the Council of State was indeed forwarded to me on 9 May. I would stress that this opinion concerned a preliminary draft which was intended to make possible the merger between the municipal services and the CPAS, while guaranteeing a number of essential elements for the proper functioning of the organisation of social assistance in general. The opinion of the Council of State concludes that "the arrangements under consideration" - i.e. the preliminary draft - "exceeds the limits of what the ordinary legislator is entitled to do on the basis of Article 5 § 1 (2) (b) of the special law". Such a requirement therefore makes it impossible, in any case with the sole support of the parliamentary majority, to implement the point of the government agreement, which provides that - I quote - "the federal government will modify the legal framework in order to allow for the organic integration of municipal administrations and CPAS". The Council of State has limited itself to this point alone. It did not express any opinion on the scope of the possibility given to local authorities to decide on a joint merger or on other matters. As usual, as soon as a major prior element appears, the Council of State does not pursue its analysis. As far as I am concerned, I informed the government that this point of the agreement could not be implemented in the context of the support of the parliamentary majority alone, given the obstacles raised by the Council of State in terms of a special majority. I have the greatest respect, as everyone knows, for the institutions in general and for the Council of State in particular. To answer your question, in the context referred to, I will follow his opinion completely. Especially since we're talking about the observance of a special law. I would not allow myself any other attitude and take note of the analysis of the Council of State which closes the possibility of carrying out this merger at the level of this legislature and of this federal majority. I also read with great attention that the regional authorities intend to work towards the harmonisation and deepening of cooperation and synergies between municipalities and CPAS. If I have read correctly, this could take the form of a similarity in the composition of the bodies in Flanders, with the persons concerned sitting in both structures; in Wallonia, I read elements concerning the simultaneous exercise of administrative direction in the commune and in the CPAS by the Directors-General, or other provisions. Clearly, I will follow carefully, in accordance with each person's competence, the proposals that will be put on the table by the authorities of the different parts of the country and within the framework of the competences of the federated entities. In addition, with regard to the missions of the CPAS, several well-developed preliminary projects are on my desk. The first concerns the reform of SIIPs (individual social integration project), which has already been the subject of numerous exchanges with stakeholders and through the media. Moreover, I have just referred to another file in response to Mr. Delizée's question. Several other themes will also be on the agenda in the near future. Believe that they are mobilizing my full attention, especially with regard to those who are receiving social assistance. My aim is to improve the mechanisms to enable as many people as possible to find - and sometimes find - the paths of autonomy, integration into society, and even dignity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u53	Minister, thank you. I welcome your concern to respect the opinion of the Council of State. A special majority law would, of course, make room for manoeuvre very narrow. Nevertheless, I appreciate that you are focusing your energy on improving the missions that benefit beneficiaries, although our views may sometimes diverge in this regard. In any case, your choice seems preferable to institutional changes which, moreover, could undermine the fairness and equal rights of our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u54	Minister, this Monday we were invited as parliamentarians by representatives of the CPAS federations, the Anti-Poverty Network and experts in experience to share with us their analyses, their fears about these changes to the PIIS. Unfortunately, few parliamentarians were present because of the train strike and because of the short delay since they thought we were going to work on the texts this Thursday. I can already inform you that a request for a hearing will be sent to our committee next week. My question is limited to community service, which is a highly debated subject and in relation to which it is important to have a clear analysis and answers on your part. In a rather surprising way, CPAS, associations working alongside the poorest or insecure people, and the study commissioned by the SPP Integration, have issued negative opinions on the generalization of the PIIS contract and the use of community service. According to the study, the worst-case scenario would be this generalization and the resulting obligation. In the face of the various criticisms, you say that such work will only be done on a voluntary basis, but at the same time that Community work will be tantamount to demonstrating the willingness of the person entitled to work and that it will not exempt him from actively seeking work. Minister, do you really consider that a beneficiary of social integration income is, in the face of a social worker, in an egalitarian position to choose to agree on a contract and, if they agree to a contract, that this contract will be drawn up between two equal parties? Is it not an office of a leonin contract, because the beneficiary of a social integration income is under an obligation to meet the supposed expectations of his or her interlocutor? In addition, once the process is initiated, it may also lose its income rights as a potential sanction. It's the same for a community service. The integration or accompaniment of people receiving income as volunteers or volunteers in services and structures is obviously part of social work. But this is done in a context other than that of an integration contract which contains obligations and sanctions in the event of non-compliance with the commitments that have been entered into by overvaluing or perhaps misappreciating its functioning or capabilities. Clearly, can you describe what this community service commitment, volunteerism, or unpaid work is about? In what types of services would it be carried out: associations, public or commercial? With which control devices to prevent the exploitation of such persons? With what means granted to non-market services to supervise these volunteers "forced without being forced" who will present themselves? In the opposite direction, have you asked for a study on the impact of such a scheme on employment in the event of unfair competition between these volunteers and the workers who perform the same tasks?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u55	Madam President, two of your colleagues also sent me questions that I was prepared to answer. However, I will have the opportunity to answer their questions during the examination of the bill. So I'm focusing on the questions you're asking me. First of all, I would like to point out that the pre-implementation study of ISIPs deserves to be read out completely. It's a good war. Extracting one or the other passage from the text – I am not talking about you, Madam President – is not a general appropriation of the study whose tendency is indeed to indicate that ISIP is an appropriate tool, appreciated positively, of course with nuances and according to situations. When I refer to the generalization of ISIPs, one forgets an element in my text – you have seen it – that allows the SPAC to derogate from it for reasons of equity or health, for reasons related to the person's situation, to the particular elements of his or her finding, such as the person's age or any other relevant element. When one refers to the generalization of ISIPs, one forgets to say that exceptions are possible. As far as ISIPs are concerned, I would like to point out that they are limited in time. This is a one-year renewable period once. I would also like to point out that a person who, after a few months, would be the beneficiary of an integration income, later in his life, can again benefit from the SIIP scheme. It is therefore limited in time but is renewable once. And if, at another time in their lives or depending on their personal circumstances, a person again solicits and obtains the benefit of an income from integration into the CPAS, later, they can once again obtain a PIIS. Let me remind you of the statistics: 31% of the beneficiaries of integration income are still after two years. In some target groups, such as recognized refugees with integration income, 48 per cent of people continue to receive integration income after two years. I do not come to a definitive conclusion, except that we probably need to reform a number of accompanying tools, set targets, be able to fluidise and mobilise additional budgets. I also recall one element that I read very little in the press: in the current budgetary circumstances, I know few levels of power that increase their repayments by 10% for a year, possibly two, renewable once during the beneficiary's life, to support a scheme. I don't expect hurrahs or bravos, let's be clear! But this element is not to my knowledge mentioned, or very little. I come to the community service, which has caused a lot of ink to flow. I would like to say and repeat, as the text states, that it is sufficient to read, that this community service is optional. I mean, he's double-handed. The CPAS is not obliged to propose it. The beneficiary is not obliged to accept it. The only constraint is that, from the moment it was accepted, its compliance is, as with the rest of the provisions of the ISIPs, mandatory. There is a fundamental difference between everything I read on the subject and my personal analysis. My analysis is as follows. Of course, there may be minority exceptions, but in the vast majority of cases I trust social workers, psychologists, workers, professionals who will hear the person, discuss with him or her and propose a comprehensive mechanism to try to bring him or her to social and socio-occupational integration and autonomy. I read the words of the Walloon Network for Combating Poverty, which wrote that we were going to create a kind of terror for the beneficiaries of integration income. Do you think that social workers, if you know them well, will consider that they now have a tool to introduce forced labour for a series of beneficiaries, and that they will use that social gourdine that the government would have imposed on them? But what vision do you have of the work of our social services? The social work I'm watching is not that. In the vast majority of cases, this is a work carried out with great professionalism, with a professional and social atavism vis-à-vis the beneficiaries, accompanied by a lot of personal, professional and often human investment in their tasks. Therefore, I do not accept this trial that is done indirectly to our social services. On the contrary, I trust them. What does the device allow? I will repeat it in the preparatory work of the law: there is strictly no sanction provided if a beneficiary says, "Sorry, Mr Borsus, Mrs Gerkens – by hypothesis, social workers in a CPAS of the country – I find this inappropriate for my situation." No moral pressure may be exerted on the person concerned. No more on this point than on the other points of the ISIP. The content of ISIP is negotiated. But then, his respect is mandatory. If the CPAS insists that someone be trained in language or literacy, if the beneficiary, in the context of the PIIS, believes that this is not appropriate for him, there is no way to compel him to do so. One of the foundations of my political conviction is that taxation is a form of failure of conviction. I believe in the detailed work, taking into account, of course, the situations, the personal fragility of some beneficiaries; I believe in this work of dialogue of the CPAS regarding community service, like others. I have heard this reproach: are we not going to take the employment of other social workers and public servants? First of all, I would like to point out that articles 60 and 61 already exist. Of course, the recipient is paid, but we are in such a pattern as to assign a mission that could be carried out by others. Moreover, if I remember correctly, the working population in Belgium is just over four million people. If we think that the beneficiaries of integration income who are going to take a few hours a week, therefore for a limited period of time, are likely to come to upset the labour market, even confined to a sector – public, associative, non-commercial – I consider it completely outside the reality. Those who follow this reasoning could hold a similar one about volunteering, arguing that it could destroy structural work. That's not the case at all, of course. There is a place for structural work, which I encourage, for volunteering and for socio-occupational integration schemes. This one is one, but modest when compared to others that have been known for a long time. All questions are legitimate, of course. But here we have a tool of exceptional magnitude. This is one of the most important reforms in recent years concerning social and vocational integration work, with considerable resources, with new tools, and which I will monitor in a very detailed manner. I propose that we mobilize, not to see that glass is only three quarters full, not to try to find all the evils of the world in a text that does not foresee them, but to ask ourselves whether it is normal to have 115,000 beneficiaries of integration income in our country. Some questions need to be asked. Can't we improve the way we work with them and for them? Can we not dare to question ourselves and propose reforms? That's what I'm doing on behalf of the government. A number of CPAS presidents, far from what I read as official communications from certain federations or structures, tell me that they are already applying this and that they are not asking for better. They tell me we can count on them to make progress on this. Believe that they are not just presidents of CPAS linked to my political formation and that they do not all come from the same region or subregion of the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u56	Minister, thank you for your answers. In my view, there is a difference between considering that integration income recipients and social workers are being provided with increasingly varied tools that allow them to act in all the dimensions of a person's life project, and then putting in place arrangements of a different nature that may distort the interest of these tools. I have already had the opportunity to tell you on several occasions: to conclude a partnership, to set objectives, to set steps, to think about how to achieve this and to do as much as possible so that the beneficiary can live up to this mutual commitment that has developed, it is a good way of working. Work to try to integrate them into society and to enable them to participate through volunteerism or other mechanisms is also positive. But there is nothing to do, your text and your answer indicate that when there is a commitment, there is therefore sanctions if the terms of the contract are not respected. To conclude a contract in this way removes the interesting side that the tool can have, because both beneficiaries and social workers will actually find themselves in a logic that will lead them to conclude contracts and to have to put in them what is expected of them or what they assume is expected of them. This may have an impact, both on the mechanisms of exclusion and both on the environments where these people will be likely to integrate. This is the drift found with articles 60. Initially, it was a professional experience. In the end, workers turn one after the other and their activity does not turn into an employment contract. The people, to whom hope has been given, find themselves anyway outside the circuits. Long-term, multi-dimensional visions need to be analysed and integrated, not limited to partial projects. Of course, we will have an opportunity to discuss this next week when your bill is introduced. But I also think that you have heard and met with the presidents of CPAS, and probably stay with sometimes different opinions. I think it's important to see the workers. When we see what is happening at their level, at the level of unemployment, we see how many relationships can be distorted, how many workers can feel completely beside their mission and how many people are ultimately excluded, and thus at CPAS, or sometimes without income. My great fear is that we will achieve the same result within the CPAS and in the work that is done with the poorest of the citizens. We will have an opportunity to deepen these issues next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-01-54-commissie-ic431x.u57	Question No 1 1977 by Mrs Anne Dedry is postponed.
