ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u1	The meeting was opened at 2.18 p.m. and chaired by Siegfried Bracke. The meeting was called to order at 2.18 p.m. and chaired by Mr. Siegfried Bracke.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u2	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u3	A series of communications and decisions must be notified to the Chamber. They shall be included on the website of the Chamber and in the Annex to the integral report of this meeting. A series of communications and decisions must be brought to the attention of the House. They will be included on the House's website and included in the annex to the full record of this sitting. At the opening of the meeting, the Ministers of the Federal Government: Ministers of the Federal Government present at the opening of the sitting: Kris Peeters, Maggie De Block, Daniel Bacquelaine.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u4	Nawal Ben Hamou, Gautier Calomne, An Capoen, Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, Maya Detiège, Olivier Maingain, Evita Willaert, Fatma Pehlivan, for health reasons/ for health reasons; Elio Di Rupo, wegens ambtsplicht / for mandate duties; Karine Lalieux, with shipment abroad / on a mission abroad; Laurent Devin, family mourning / family mourning. Federale regering / Federal government: Koen Geens, Theo Francken, European Council of Ministers Justice and Home Affairs /Conseil des ministres européens Justice et Intérieur (Bratislava).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u5	[[for the standing meeting]] The President [[in front of the standing assembly]] Good colleagues, For many months now, we have had to open the plenary session regularly and unfortunately with a moment of silence for the victims of acts of terror. Last week the attack on Istanbul airport, and now that again. The month of July 2016 unfortunately started with a whole series of bloody attacks: July 1st in Dhaka, Bangladesh, July 3rd in Baghdad, Iraq, July 4th in Saudi Arabia and July 5th in Syria. In Baghdad the official death toll increased to more than 250 and also 300 injured. These persistent, repulsive acts of blind terrorism fill us with horror and great indignation. Every day attacks turn the world into a battlefield. Terrorists have only one goal: to strike indiscriminately around the world hoping to make as many victims as possible. Such acts are an offence to humanity. It is therefore an elementary duty and an imperative of a moral nature that our Assembly again and again denounces the ideologies that contribute to so much suffering and crime. Nothing can weaken our determination to meet the challenges of violence and fundamentalism. We, who want to continue to defend democracy, must continue to stand up against anything that incites hatred between people. With these acts of terror, the terrorists want to attack the foundations of our civilisation: tolerance, the ideal of justice, the right to be different, freedom. On behalf of the House of Representatives, I strongly condemn these heinous murders of innocent victims and wish to express our condolences to the families and friends of the victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, every week these acts of violence mourn families around the world. Every week, people have to say goodbye to their fathers, mothers, children, brothers, sisters or family after being taken out of their lives by blind terror. Unfortunately, last week is no exception. On Sunday Baghdad became the scene of the most violent and murderous IS attack. It was yet another cowardly and scandalous act of an organization whose only ideology is nihilism. Without exception, innocents, passers-by and shopkeepers of a busy neighborhood were targeted. The day before, Dhaka was hit in Bangladesh in the same way. We strongly condemn these terrorist acts all over the world. We will never accept them, we will never accept them as part of life. On behalf of the Federal Government, I wish to express our greatest solidarity with the Iraqi people, who are often subjected to acts of terror and violence, but also with the many victims of terrorism throughout the world. We show them all our solidarity and our deepest compassion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, in memory of the countless victims of this senseless violence, I would ask you to observe a minute's silence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u8	[[for the standing meeting]] The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] Ladies and gentlemen, Andries Kinsbergen, Minister of State and Honorary Governor of the Province of Antwerp, died on 24 June. He was 89 years old. Andries Kinsbergen was born in Amsterdam from Dutch-Israeli parents, but he grew up in Antwerp. He attended the Atheneum and studied law at the VUB. As a student he was active in the Liberal Flemish Student Federation. On 1 January 1967 he became the provincial governor of Antwerp. At the time of his appointment he was president of the PVV-Antwerp city. He was 40 then and had already had a well-stocked career as a lawyer. He belonged to the same generation of Antwerp lawyers as Hugo Schiltz. Kinsbergen was also a combative advocate, formidable for his knowledge of the file. He also taught for years: from 1959 to 1967 he was an assistant at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel (VUB), where he taught Human Rights. In 1966 he became a professor at the RUCA and taught the general principles of law. The many economic, scientific and socio-cultural organizations and institutions he chairs bear witness to the exceptional eclecticism of the commitments of Andries Kinsbergen. He has a multitude of functions, including chairing the King Baudouin Foundation, the Antwerp Regional Development Corporation and the Royal Ballet of Flanders. Between 1964 and 1966, he also served on the Standing Committee on Linguistic Control. Andries Kinsbergen was an ardent defender of Antwerp's heritage. For example, he organized the restoration of Notre-Dame Cathedral and the Episcopal Palace within the framework of Antwerp-93. Nearly two thousand guests left Kinsbergen as governor on Friday 10 September 1993. He had ruled the province of Antwerp for almost 27 years. No other Antwerp governor had held that office for so long. In his closing speech, Kinsbergen said to say goodbye as a very satisfied man. He said he did not rest, because he wanted to continue to work for the weak in society, especially for the disabled. An authoritative, valued, conscientious and thoughtful person, Andries Kinsbergen has always been able to put forward his ideas in all areas. He aspired to a harmonious policy and friendly relations, beyond party divisions. His optimism and affectionateness will remain with those who were lucky to know him for a long time. In the name of the Chamber, I have expressed my sincere condolences to his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the government, I pay tribute to Andries Kinsbergen, Antwerp's Honor Governor and Minister of State. Andries Kinsbergen has played an important role in the economic and cultural development of his city and his province. His commitment in the academic world is still palpable today. He contributed to the development of the Antwerp University of Unity and put the city on the map on a scientific level. In addition, he played a key role for the High Council for Diamond, for the port and as chairman of the King Baudouin Foundation. As governor, he was the figurehead of the province for almost 27 years. But above all, he was a teacher for many, a mentor who showed what social commitment means. Andries Kinsbergen was an exceptional personality with a long track record, a man who remained faithful to his ideals and was at the service of his students, his citizens and his colleagues. It should not be surprised that Andries Kinsbergen was the first governor to be appointed Minister of State, a recognition he cherished. On behalf of the government, I would like to extend our deepest condolences to the family and relatives of Andries Kinsbergen. We wish them much courage in these difficult moments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to observe a moment's silence in memory of the late Minister of State?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, as you did a great deal of exaggeration last week, in general terms, I would ask you to abide by the Rules of Procedure: two minutes per question, two minutes per answer, and one minute for reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u12	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this week we read in the newspaper that you have been visited by the employers' and employees' organizations in the country. It must have been a constructive consultation, but not a confidential one, because we could read about it in the newspaper the day after. It was there about the much discussed 38-hour week. It has often been said that it would be abolished, but I do not repeat it, because that is not happening, for the sake of clarity. It was about a more flexible interpretation of that 38-hour week, with more freedom for employers and employees in our country. They will be able to fill them in at their pace. Apparently, the social partners are asking for the sectoral agreements to be respected. There are already 1.6 million employees who actually work in the system that you want to introduce everywhere. These agreements were signed by the ABVV, by the ACV, by the ACLVB. They have been approved in many sectors. Now you want to make a general chapter and ask the trade unions to respect the existing agreements and to allow us to conclude agreements in the near future. First of all, is that what they've come to ask you? Or are there other things on the table? Secondly, you know that there is a great deal of fuss about the so-called abolition of the 38-hour week. Finally, do the social partners understand that this does not mean social degradation at all and that there are companies that decide to work less and work more during the winter in sunny weather, such as today? They do so for the benefit of their employees and not only because they always want to work for their own ends. In short, Minister, do you notice more goodwill among the social partners? What exactly was the subject of the consultation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as always, I appreciate the questions put by Mr Lachaert, who, of course, reads the newspapers like everyone else. Sometimes it's interesting to read the newspapers, sometimes it's less interesting. I would just like to make it clear that the government's notification on 9 April is clear: the Minister of Work, after consulting the Group of Ten, will submit a draft law to the Council of Ministers, even before the summer recess. That draft law will then, of course, be submitted for approval by this Parliament, which will be able to discuss it extensively. I will not repeat the notification you all know. It states that we want to organise the reference period, which is now quarterly, on an annual basis and that the arrangements for determining overtime remain unchanged. Mr Lachaert, I have had a lot of informal talks lately, always with the agreement that it was informal and nothing would come out. Together with you, I have established that something has come out and one newspaper has reported about it. What matters to me, and hopefully to you, is that we calculate the 38 hours on an annual basis. As you say, the 38 hours will not be abolished and no one will go backwards, certainly not in terms of wages. I hope and do everything in my power to ensure that the social partners realise that what is to be said in the draft law is a good thing: a good thing for the workers who are now in employment, a good thing for those who are looking for work and a good thing for employers, because we need to change a number of things in our labour law. I hope that, when the draft law has gone to the government and comes here in this hemisphere, we can have a very positive discussion on this. Unfortunately, this has not always been the case on the streets.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u14	Mr Minister, I am pleased with your reply that you are still holding the timetable to carry out the notifications, and so we will not have much time left in the coming weeks to see the draft law that the general chapeau must contain in order to complete the annualisation. It will be up to us to make a balanced agreement. It is not about placing one party, employer or employee in a strong position and the other in a weak position: this must be a win-win scenario, both for the competitiveness of our companies and for the workers who also require greater flexibility. In other press articles this week we read that too: happy workers are workers who have more freedom. Of course, we in our group support this for 200 percent. There is one reflection on the sectoral approach, and I would like to warn against a small risk here. I understand what you are doing there, but the patchwork of the number of sectors in our country is very wide. Please don't let it end in a very complex system. Keep it simple . Make sure people understand. There is currently only one inspector at the FOD WASO who still understands how working time works in our country. That situation is also bad for our competitiveness. Give us workable rules, give us clear rules and give us rules that give us more freedom.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to keep your conversations outside this Chamber because the noise there is deafening?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u16	Madam Secretary, 20 years ago, the federal government decided to limit the number of doctors. Flanders met this immediately, by taking an efficient entrance exam, and has had to disappoint many Flemish students who have not been able to start the studies. Nothing has happened on the French-speaking side, with the result that we have had to increase quotas regularly and that there is now a doctor's allowance. There is also a lot of overconsumption there, for which the Fleming is, by the way, financially paying off. Even the future quotas have already been opened up there. Madam Minister, we discussed it in committee last week, and it is not your fault that the fifth and sixth year medical students in Wallonia will no longer be able to practice medicine. This is a real disgrace, but it is the result of the years of Walloon disdain. You now want to reward that mischief. You come up with a typical Belgian solution, which punishes the good student of the class and rewards the bad one, because you are even going to adjust the 60/40 ratio to the detriment of Flanders for the first time. There has already been a lot of criticism of your proposal from among others the Flemish Medical Association, the Syndicate of Flemish General Doctors and the OVV. Since last week's debate in committee, many critical voices have been added. Probably because 11 July, the Flemish holiday, is approaching, even the Flemish government has received a Flemish reflex. She openly opposed your proposal. The Prime Minister referred to your proposal as 'the reversed world' and Minister Crevits was also very clear yesterday in the Flemish Parliament. She asked questions about the method of the planning committee, on which you base your proposal. Madam Secretary, there is no support for your proposal in Flanders. Are you prepared to amend this unacceptable proposal for Flanders?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u17	Madam Minister, we have heard here that there is some concern about your proposal to put an end to the problem of medical quotas. In Flanders, there has been an entrance test for a long time to limit inflow, which is not the case in Wallonia. This inevitably leads to an oversupply of doctors in the south of the country. Let us be clear, that problem is not new. Your predecessor found no solution to this problem and her partymate in the French Community literally allowed this dossier to dwindle for years. So it is to your credit that you want to get rid of the problem once and for all. What strikes me, however, is that critics are blindly staring at the percentage quotas for Flanders and Wallonia, respectively 56.5 % versus 43.5 %. It must be said that for the sake of convenience it is forgotten that this adjustment is based on a scientific calculation model, that the Walloon quota will be reduced annually by 194 units over the next seven years and the Flemish by 56 units, that you force the French Community to control the influx and that all this will happen without affecting the students who are currently undergoing their training. You'll make sure of that, too. Madam Minister, we know that political decisions are best made on the basis of facts and not on the basis of emo. Hence my questions. Can you explain all the elements of your proposal? What is your finding on the entrance exam on the Flemish side versus the competition after the first year of bachelor's degree on the French-speaking side? What is your response to the current criticism?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u18	Mr President, Mrs Pas, Mrs Somers, the problem of the Riziv numbers is one of the poisoned inheritances I found in the closets of the Ministry of Health when I started. I immediately started wide consultation with all those involved. I have indeed put forward a compromise proposal that not only deals with quotas until 2022, but provides a structural solution for the years that follow. The structural solution is to eliminate the historical turnover of trained French-speaking students over a seven-year period. A regulatoryly-ranking bolt is introduced into federal law which should avoid, in the future, too many doctors getting a Riziv number in one or the other part of the country. I had already found that the French Community installed a filter in the studies in order to avoid the transfer of students. That filter came into effect last week. It is just by treating these three shutters together that an honourable, balanced compromise could be found. I think it's the only solution based on all the conversations I've had. I am sticking to a number of lines which are essential to me in any compromise. Firstly, a solution for all students in training. The French-speaking students should not pay the price for the irresponsible way in which the French-speaking Ministers of Education used to deal with these quotas. The inflow limitation will be applied in the future. Secondly, to eliminate problems from the past and to reduce the number of students. I don't want to mop with the tap open. An effective filter in both Communities is absolutely necessary. This effectiveness will also be evaluated. Thirdly, the method of determining quotas must be scientifically based and supported by a robust methodology. All this in the context of evidence-based policymaking. As far as quotas are concerned, a methodology has indeed been developed on the basis of 25 variables, which take into account the number of foreign students, the ageing population, the feminisation of the profession and so on. The methodology was unanimously approved by the members of the independent planning committee. The variables were also applied equally to all specializations in the north and south of the country and also to the dentists. The result of the exercise is now known. Apparently, for some, the general methodology cannot always lead to the figures they dream of. Without doubt, the methodology can still be refined in the future, but it is a revolution. We go from a politically compiled figure to an evidence-based figure. I know that the file unleashes a lot of emotions, but I'm qualified as a federal minister of health. I want a global, structural solution to this lingering problem. I want to be fair to all students in our country. We need motivated doctors in the north and south. Mrs Pas, you may find it strange, but politicians are the art of compromise. I trust that all those involved will think very carefully about their positions and their respective mandates and that they will also take up those functions with a sense of responsibility and leadership.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u19	Madam Minister, it is true that you have inherited the file and it is to your credit that you want to find a solution to it, but the solution you are proposing today is not balanced. The methodology hangs together with hooks and eyes, even overconsumption has been included. There are rightly questions about the methodology and the result. It is true that the proposal was unanimously approved by the Planning Committee, but the vote on the result was not unanimous. There were two votes against. The N-VA and CD&V all rightly have comments. We do not even know whether the filter which will be installed in Wallonia only after the second year of the first year will work. Your proposal is therefore anything but balanced and is a reward for Walloon mispolicy. You're counting on responsibility. I am counting on the parties such as the N-VA, who have already said in press releases that they are vetoing your proposal, not only to put this veto on paper, but also to keep the Walloon reward in the Council of Ministers. I'm rounding up. I read this week that Rik Torfs says exactly what I said to you on the committee last week, Madam Secretary. The file's jammed. If you do not get out of it, then you are prepared to talk about everything. If you split up social security, the French speakers can appoint as many doctors as they want, but they can pay for it themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u20	Colleagues, no one can give a proper reply in this kind of noise. I ask for respect for Mrs Somers, among others.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u21	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive reply. We all know that this is not a simple dossier and that a solution must be found. The longer a solution to this problem remains, the bigger the problem becomes. I am sure that you will provide a solution to this long-standing impasse. What is now on the table seems to me to be a suitable basis: evidence based quotas based on real needs and evolutions. First of all, all behind the 25 parameters, but then questioning the results, I don't think it makes any sense. Gradual removal of the amount of French-speaking doctors does not wipe you under the mat but executes you. There is finally a limitation of the influx on the Walloon side. As you say, we must continue to evaluate this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u22	Madam Secretary, whether it is about fine dust, which is damaging our lungs, or about the carcinogenic weedkiller... or about the chemicals in plastic that are disrupting our hormones, no one in the government seems to be taking up their responsibilities. I often ask questions about this. I'm questioning Minister Marghem and being referred to Minister Borsus. I ask questions to Minister Borsus and will be referred to you, Madam Secretary of State De Block. That's how I end up with you today. The hot potato is being pushed through. Madam Secretary, don't do that today for once. Today is the deadline for Belgium to comment on the European Commission's new criteria for hormone-distorting substances. The Danish, Swedish and French governments express their concern. According to these countries, even bisphenol A will no longer be a hormone disrupter on the basis of these new criteria, whereas it is now prohibited in our country in tits and food packaging for children under three years of age. The human toll is huge, by the way. Infertility, breast cancer, obesity, growth disorders in children and up to 5% of cases of autism are due to hormone disrupting substances. If all this human suffering is not convincing, it costs the European authorities 157 billion a year. When will Belgium finally take seriously the impact of the environment and chemicals on our health? What position will Belgium take on the Standing Committee on Pesticide Residues? We're not gonna give our kids a little bit of bisphenol A again, are we?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u23	Mrs Dedry, I will make you happy by giving you the following answer, also on behalf of Minister Marghem and Minister Borsus. We all take the protection against the effects of hormone disrupting substances seriously. This must indeed be addressed at European level, in which Belgium has always been a pioneer. Otherwise, we will have a patchwork of measures, if each country takes more or less its own measures. We are taking a different approach: the Member States are working together and each is doing part of the work in testing the substances. Now there is a proposal from the European Commission on the table. So the discussion, which is very technical, is just beginning. In general terms, it is certainly a good thing that this is regulated at European level and that the same criteria apply to biocidal products and pesticides, because they are often the same substances. The only thing that interests us is its impact on human health and the environment. That proposal still needs to be worked out in order to ensure the protection of the environment and public health. My services have put forward a first series of technical comments on the Commission's proposal, on which I would like to repeat that the debate is just beginning. As always, my services have been based on scientific evidence and independent research. Effects observed in animals should be taken into account, even if no studies on human effects are yet available. You can rest assured that the discussion, which has just begun, will be conducted thoroughly and will be examined by myself and my fellow Members Mr Borsus and Mr Marghem. For us, the scientific basis and the protection of the environment and public health are essential.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u24	In any case, I am pleased that the three ministers seem to be on the same lines. I take this opportunity to quote from Mr Marghem's reply yesterday: 'It is indeed necessary to amend the current proposal in order to ensure a higher level of protection for the environment and public health'. Madam Secretary, in your answer today, you did not go so far. However, since you are speaking on behalf of three ministers, I assume that you will set the bar high enough. We have also already tabled a motion for a resolution on effective measures to combat the effects of hormone disrupters, which we can discuss in committee. I am therefore counting on progress to be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u25	Mr President, Madam Minister, in our country most general practitioners, almost 90%, adhere to the conventions. That means they're working against the fixed rate agreed with the insurance companies. That is a very good thing for the patient. However, there are a number of comments to be made on these figures. First of all, the patient often remains in uncertainty, because there is no clear increase in tariffs for many doctors. Secondly, apparently some of the conventional doctors still charge supplements. Thirdly, a growing problem for which we need to be very alert, and the specialists are not doing very well with these conventions. For example, almost 60% of ophthalmologists and plastic surgeons do not follow the convention. A third of the dentists don't follow the convention. The dermatologists really put on the crown with almost 70 % non-conventionists. Moreover, there are very large regional differences, so that in some regions it is almost impossible to find a specialist who adheres to the agreed rates, which applies the agreed rates. Madam Secretary, do you not agree that we should protect patients from these undesirable supplements? Do you not also believe that you should take measures to ensure that more doctors comply with the tariffs? So shouldn't we encourage more doctors to comply with the convention? Do you not also believe that doctors should be obliged to post their rates to their cabinet?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u26	Mr President, Mrs Jiroflée, as far as the postage of tariffs is concerned, they hang in every waiting room of the medical examiners, so you should go to the doctor more often. Affordable, well-accessible and high-quality healthcare is and remains the central policy. This also presupposes the strengthening of tariff security and the modernisation of the contract and agreement system within the compulsory health insurance system. I can give you a list of the measures taken in the past by my predecessors and myself to remove those thresholds. There has been a great deal of work on this: there is the compulsory third-party payment scheme in the general practitioner for beneficiaries, the ban on pay supplements in double rooms, both in classical and daily hospitalization, the introduction of an ever better patient invoice and other measures. Accessibility and financial transparency are, first and foremost, elements for agreements between doctors and sickness funds. A chord system is also aimed at ensuring this affordability and accessibility. The ongoing Medicomut agreement 2016-2017 also contains a series of measures in that context. On Monday, two more important issues were approved in the MedicoMut: a draft agreement for a substantial improvement in the affordability of the warm chest construction in women affected by breast cancer or who have a preventive need for it, and a regulation on limiting supplements for venereal supplements clinical biology, pathological anatomy and genetics. It has already been agreed that after the recess the MedicoMut will have an in-depth discussion on the problem of the wage supplements. I do not deny that for some the percentages are low, but that is nothing new under the sun. The percentage is now around 88 %. It has been worse once and we are going the right way, if it is not that there is still a lot of work to be done. We will.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u27	Madam Secretary, your comment on the postage of tariffs is not correct. Indeed, doctors are obliged to act out whether they are convenient or not, but we all know that in most GPs I assume that you were not.This hangs somewhere on a bogged down paper in a corner, put in a language that the layman doesn't understand. Fixed rates should not be imposed and they do not hang out with most doctors. You're talking about the percentage. I have started by saying that the overall percentage is indeed good, only if we look at regional differences and at the differences in disciplines there are major gaps. We believe that something should be done about this. We believe that the patient is entitled to a fixed and certain rate. We have already launched a website on which patients will find the right information. I'm actually counting on you, Madam Secretary, to do that publicly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u28	Mr President, Madam Minister, in this summer, many families on holiday are buying sunscreens, especially for their young children. Protection for children from UVA and UVB is particularly important. In this respect, two studies have been published, one by Test-Achats, about a month ago, and another, more recently in France, according to which certain sunscreens do not comply with the legal provisions on protection, which is very challenging from the point of view of consumer protection. It also notes that the labelling would not be sufficiently legible. Minister, how can you make yourself strong in better labelling that allows for a certain readability with respect to sunscreen products? How can controls be strengthened more regularly to ensure optimal and legally imposed protection?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me point out to you that you are tanned! In early summer, it is appropriate to recall that caution should be exercised when exposing yourself to sunlight to avoid burning skin and to reduce the risk of developing skin cancer. It is important to limit the exposure of the skin to the sun, but also to protect yourself with a reliable sunscreen. Depending on the tests performed, the products comply with the sun protection factor that protects against UVB rays, but two out of thirteen products provide protection against UVA lower than that stated on their labels. Given the risks to public health, this information is taken seriously. Since the products in question are manufactured by French companies, my services immediately contacted the French inspection services which can carry out checks in the said firms. In Belgium, the inspection service for cosmetic products of the SPF Santé publique carries out the checks on the labelling of products. This service verifies the sun product protection indices when checking technical files. These checks will be continued with particular attention for products intended for children.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u30	Madam Minister, thank you very much. I understand that, as a result of this study, you have taken steps to protect consumers in our country. On the other hand, I think it would be wise to draw up proposals for a certain harmonisation of European controls, whether in terms of labelling or regular inspections, which we need to strengthen, because they are insufficient at the moment – otherwise such situations would not have arisen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u31	Minister, today the government has decided that anyone wishing to benefit from an income guarantee for the elderly, an IGA, must have been legally resident in our country for 10 years, of which five years without interruption. The N-VA has already strongly insisted on this during the recent budget negotiations in April 2016. I would therefore like to congratulate you for putting this agreement into legal texts at such short notice. This condition of residence, ladies and gentlemen, is important for two reasons. Firstly, the measure must combat social security tourism and prevent a person who has never lived or worked in Belgium from receiving a benefit equal to and in some cases even higher than the pension of many self-employed or workers who have worked for a very long time. People are rightly concerned about social security tourism, which has emerged in several European countries in recent months, and which risks further undermining the necessary support for our social security systems. Secondly, the N-VA believes that rights to social benefits should be linked to the responsibility to integrate and become an active part of society. The ten-year residence condition will certainly contribute to this. In addition, a number of people will end up in the living wage system for the ten-year period and will be associated with social integration measures. The N-VA fully supports the implementation of this measure. We do have two additional questions, Minister. Firstly, can you give a clearer picture of the financial impact of this measure? I'm sure there will be. Secondly, can you say more generally how you will effectively do the means test, which also applies to the IGO? After all, it is well known that the means test for living wages is followed in a more rigorous manner than for the IGO.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u32	Mr President, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their questions. The Government has decided to add an additional condition to the existing conditions of granting, namely a ten-year period of residence in Belgium, of which five years are continuous, in order to strengthen the link between the entitled persons and their social assistance system. This residence condition shall apply to all IGOs starting from 1 September 2017 The introduction of this measure should allow some abuses associated with a form of social shopping to be stopped. Our country must offer a high level of protection to its inhabitants, but it is unacceptable that some settle in Belgium solely for the purpose of making use of the social benefits. In this way, Belgium aligns its policy in this area with that of other European countries. How can a person who has never lived in Belgium or has never worked in Belgium receive a benefit that is sometimes higher than the pension of many self-employed persons or employees who have paid social contributions during their career? According to the administrative figures, the savings will amount to around EUR 2 million in 2017 and will increase to around EUR 9 million in 2021. Finally, I would like to inform you that the control of resources is carried out through data flows with the FPS Finance. Verification of the conditions of residence is carried out on the basis of the National Register.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u33	Indeed, Minister, we must continue to strive to maintain and even increase our social benefits and, above all, to ensure that those who need them most can continue to receive them. However, this can only be done if we also strive for the correct application of social security and if we ensure that the link between benefits and contributions remains sufficiently clear, as well as a stay in Belgium. I believe that this measure will certainly contribute to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u34	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, from the first budget you have presented to us, we have warned you about tax revenues. We have repeatedly denounced the amateurism, which has been confirmed over the months, of the government as a whole, and not just that of the Minister of Finance. This question is not true: why has your government been stubborn in this path of amateurism and repeated mistakes? That remains a mystery. The reality of the numbers will always catch up with you, and you know it. In this regard, you have received the latest tile. The National Bank estimates that 8 to 9 billion euros are missing to stay on track for the return to balance in 2018, on which you committed yourself. You yourself, Minister, announced a few days ago that tax revenues in the state funds were $760 million lower, either in comparison with the previous year's figures or compared to the forecast. But it doesn't matter, you said, last year was 1.4 billion. Everyone will appreciate it! The fact is, it's not that simple. Indeed, according to the Finance FPS, the gap in government revenues would be between EUR 1 billion and EUR 2.2 billion, plus the 8 billion that needs to be found. So your prospect is to find 11 billion euros by 2018! Does everyone in this assembly realize what we're talking about? My question is very simple. When is tax revenues seriously estimated and budget work serious? Above all, what are you going to ask our fellow citizens again? Are you going, as announced by the leaders of the N-VA, to cut again in social security, if not also in the public services? We expect clear answers, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u35	Mr President, Minister of Finance, you are a formidable communicator! You know that when there's bad news, it's better to announce it yourself to try to nuance it, to explain that it's not that bad. But the tax forecasts, the first figures of tax revenues for the first half of this year 2016 are more than worrying and should lead you to react, to wave a little to try to find solutions. In addition, they add up to other fanciful figures: your forecasts in relation to the tax on games of chance contested by regions, the "diamant" tax which is still not approved by the European Commission, the Cayman tax, which everyone explains to us is so easy to circumvent, not to mention the forecasts of the National Bank and the Plan Bureau which announce particularly difficult budgetary exercises. You, a bit like the Titanic orchestra, continue to play despite the difficult situation. There are three reasons for tax revenues that are not coming back, Minister of Finance. First, it is an economy that does not work. When the economy works, revenues normally return. Secondly, tax systems are inadequate. I am thinking in particular of the tax on capital gains that you have to change the software. The third cause of this situation is the lack of resources in your tax administration, the FPS Finances, which has for years been deprived of its ability to properly collect tax. Mr. Minister of Finance, the question is simple. What are you finally going to change to improve the tax revenue situation? Your job as Minister of Finance is to bring money back into the coffers of the federal state so that it can fulfil all its tasks in terms of security, solidarity. It's up to you!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u36	Mr Minister, in the past few days there has been no good impression of the government, of its results and of the way it is going in the government. The report of your own administration, the FPS Finance, concludes that tax revenues are 2.2 billion euros lower than expected in five months' time. That's a huge amount of money. However, your cabinet responds that the account is incorrect and that it is only EUR 760 million, which is still a lot of money. In other words, your cabinet contradicts your administration, which surprises me. I don't think that's right. Even more interesting is the reaction of your coalition partner CD&V. By mouth of Mr Van Rompuy I would almost call him Leprechaun Kwebbel: he talks a lot, he makes a lot of his nose, but there is not much of it in the newspaper says that there is a problem with Van Overtveldt in the government. He's talking about an unseen frivolity with which you deal with the numbers. Unseen means to Mr Van Rompuy, who can boast of a long career, that he has not yet seen that in previous governments, with socialists. So today's frivolity is unseen. In short, you are constantly being told in reports from different agencies, from your coalition partners that you perform undersizedly, that you do not bring what you should bring, that you do not bring what you promise to bring. My question is very simple, Minister. I'm not asking how you're gonna solve things. I would ask you today in Parliament to answer honestly whether your administration is right or whether it is simply deluding itself?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u37	Minister, the tax revenue shows a hole. You yourself estimate it at 760 million euros, which is quite considerable. When you go to your administration, do you see that the difference between your forecast of additional revenue and the reality is more than two billion euros? This hole in tax revenues is obviously huge. It is worth recalling the estimates of the National Bank and the Federal Office of the Plan, which estimate the amount of the budgetary effort to be made to return to balance in 2018, as the government wants to do. Of course, it is easy to incriminate attacks, which would be the cause of everything. Soon, the defeat of the Red Devils will also be the cause of budgetary problems. I think rather of your shift tax, which is deeply unequal, since according to the answer you have given me, the richest 10% of the population benefit from a deduction of almost 1 billion euros of PPI, whereas for the poorest 10% it amounts to just 4 million. Your tax shift is, to say the least, unequal! And even if we divide the population into two, the poorest 50 per cent will benefit from a 20 per cent reduction in the PPI compared to 80 per cent for the richest. I think it is a policy of inequality that has an impact on consumption. It must be admitted that it is the poorest who pay the most taxes on consumption. It is not surprising, therefore, to see a huge gap in VAT revenues. The same could be said about the speculation tax. So, Minister, what is the return of this speculative tax on budgetary revenues so far? Do you confirm the carry-over of the 2017 budget to September? In my view, this government is forced into the budget and postpones the problem to a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Finance Minister, I do not know whether the Rules of Procedure of this House allow this, but I want to question you today on behalf of the Budget Minister. We've known for some time that you've had a problem with the CD&V. It is now clear that the Minister of Budget must have a problem with you because it is clearly on the tax revenue side of which you have the responsibility that the federal budget is taking the water, to the point of jeopardizing the prospect of restoring fiscal balance. Just a week ago, here, we were discussing the budget adjustment and we were many to show you that the figures were not on the way. It took only a few days for what we were telling you to be confirmed. The figures are now in the figure. Again, we should agree on the figures! According to the tables of the Ministry of Finance, €512 million is missing in 2016 compared to the revenue recorded at the same time in 2015. Compared to the 2016 budget estimates, the hole is obviously much larger, according to a FPS Finance report that you might be able to share with us. This gap compared to the estimates could rise to €2.2 billion. You correct it by considering that, in the end, the deficit would be only 760 million, which is still very substantial. Of course, it is the monitoring committee, in a few days' time, that will agree on the figures. However, without waiting for this monitoring committee, we have to ask you questions. How, Minister of Finance, do you explain the decline in tax revenues, because there is a decrease in tax revenues, compared to last year's estimates and perceptions? How do you explain the differences in interpretation between yourself and your administration because if there is a problem between the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Budget, there is also a clear problem between the Minister of Finance and the FPS Finance? Last but not least, Minister of Finance, how are you going to correct this information? How are you going to get tax revenues back if you're not credible in the numbers, if you're not credible in the measures you're proposing? We must expect further dark cuts in both social security and departmental spending, which would obviously be unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the latest estimates of tax revenue indicate that there are fewer revenues for 2016 in proportion to EUR 760 million. There are other figures circulating, but we need to know what we're talking about. I am talking in this context, as it should be, about the figures based on ESA terms, European standards in this area, while many of the other figures are based on cash, which often leads to very different data. That said, the final figures will not be known, as Mr Dispa said, until the Monitoring Committee report is available one of these days. The main reason for this is three factors. First of all, VAT. That has a lot, if not everything, to do with the attacks and the threat of terror in general. We are talking about a reduction of EUR 360 million. Of course, the attacks have a very large human price in the first place, but also financially they do not miss their impact. I do not think I need to mention here how many sectors such as catering and tourism have suffered as a result of the attacks. They have even led the government to take measures to support these sectors a little during this difficult period. The second reason is the decrease in advance payments of approximately EUR 300 million. The cause is quite simple, it is the continuous fall in interest rates, which almost eliminates the motivation of companies to make advance payments. The government has taken the decision to introduce a minimum interest rate of 1% in order to revive the motivation to use advance payments. The third reason for the decrease in revenue is the depreciation of furniture. This is also about EUR 300 million. The cause is also the continued decline in interest rates and the fact that the dividend season is in progress. A catch-up movement is likely to be visible in the near future. There are also windfalls. If you've just counted, you're gonna get over a billion dollars. So there are also windfalls. It is particularly pleasing to note that the revenue from the farm levy is more than 200 million higher than envisaged, which clearly indicates that attracting employment is a very real fact. Otherwise, this is unthinkable. For example, customs revenue is also on the increase. However, there are fewer revenues, no one can deny that. The question is whether they could have been avoided. Better yet, in terms of questioning, could I have avoided them personally? I don't think so. More than that, the answer is no. Neither have I, nor any of you, been able to predict these attacks and, of course, their budgetary impact. As far as the other elements are concerned, especially the advance payments, we have recently taken measures, as I have just indicated, to reverse this trend of continuous decline in the proportion of advance payments to tax payments. Where we can intervene, we intervene. I have given you the figures. For the rest, I believe that we should do what is at stake in this context and what is constantly being discussed in budgetary exercises, namely as a government, on the basis of the necessary figures from the monitoring committee, both in terms of expenditure and revenue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u40	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I can still hear Prime Minister Michel telling us: "Stop lies!" I retaliate to him and to you, the majority: "Stop your lies!" I also hear the Prime Minister say: "It's all right! We are a social government." How dare he? I answer him and I reply that his government has increased household taxes for almost 3 billion euros and that he still needs 11 billion. Where are you going to take them? And to you, Minister of Finance, I ask you to finally put the state's accounts in order because, behind them, there are the pockets of our fellow citizens, who are tired of your austerity policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u41	Mr. Minister of Finance, I know your answer by heart. You have a capacity to deny reality and to consider that, in the end, it is not so serious that your main mission – that is, the collection of tax – is not fulfilled; it is amazing! You are alarmingly plentiful in view of the worrying situation that Belgians are experiencing. As I said in my question, your responsibility is to earn the revenues that will enable the federal government to operate in all its missions. In a way, this government and all our fellow citizens are caught up in your party. On the one hand, you are not doing your tax collection work. On the other hand, your President and the colleagues here believe that savings will still have to be made on the grounds that we would spend too much on social security, so that you will still press the citizen like a lemon. Mr. Minister of Finance, that is not acceptable. Beyond that, it's everything but a choice of future. We need an investment capacity in the future and to preserve our model of solidarity. To capture tomorrow's jobs, we'll have to find margins. It's your job. Let's get to work, Mr. Minister of Finance!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u42	Minister, when I hear your answer, I feel a certain anger. I don't know if you know the concept of ministerial responsibility. This means that the Minister is responsible for his policy. In other words, you have replied to the question whether you are personally responsible for this. I find that shameless. You should be ashamed to say today that the figures given by the administration count for nothing, because you are making a different calculation. I wonder why your administration should be doing that, if you say you don't care. It is shameless that you put your own administration in the corner that way. It is shameless that you again blame others. It's not the Minister's fault, it's others. It's been the terror. If I recall correctly, Minister, the previous budgetary control came after the attacks. You then had the opportunity to assume your responsibilities and make adjustments. The low interest rates haven't been in the last few months, that's what people knew at the time. Yet it is not your fault, you wash your hands in innocence. You should be ashamed of that, Minister. I don't think this is the right thing to do. Begin, don't repeat this, take responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u43	Minister, the more austerity you apply, the less you approach your budget target. Every year, every semester, it's the same thing. And that's not abnormal, because in fact, you're practicing a billion-dollar gift policy to the bosses. These are policies that deplete workers. Obviously, we are in a negative spiral, which will reduce consumption. This is what we see with VAT. You say that these least revenues are the result of terrorist attacks; do you have any proof of that? What is clear is that you reduce consumption by taxing it more and more, and by taxing the lowest income. Let's take your speculation tax, a symbolic tax that has to pay $34 million. However, it can be seen that it causes a loss of 100 million at the level of the exchange transaction tax. This is a symbolic tax that obviously does not serve any purpose. At the PTB, Minister, we have a tax that is not symbolic. It is the tax of the millionaires, which can earn 8 billion euros and which affects the richest 1%. With this policy, sir, not only would you achieve your budgetary objectives, but you could also stop the austerity policy. It's time to change politics, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u44	Minister, a week ago, I said here, to qualify your tax revenues, that they looked like a gruyère. A few days later, the holes only multiply, aggravating the situation. You discharge yourself of all responsibility, imputing the decline in revenues to terrorism and lower interest rates. Let me tell you, however, that your majority voted for the adjustment here at the end of June, three months after the March attacks, and that the interest rates were already as low as when you prepared your 2016 fiscal year. This way of denying your own responsibility is therefore not credible. Minister, when I hear and when I read that the speculation tax is going to cost more than it's going to bring back, when I hear the criticisms of a partner of your majority, who is causing some trouble in the majority about the government's budget line, when I see the fog your estimates create on the government's budget line, I think you're what one might call a troublemaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u45	Mr President, Minister, almost six months ago, the European Council was bowing in four to respond to the blackmail of Conservative Cameron. In spite of this, we now find ourselves confronted with Brexit, for which the British have sovereignly opted. We have already talked a lot about this issue here and we will probably be discussing it a lot more. Before that, we had a much less complacent scenario. Indeed, a year ago, the Council, pushed by Ecofin, put the rifle on Greece's head to make it capitulate, to submit to the constraints it had been told and to avoid a Grexit that would have been imposed on it unilaterally. Of these two Member States, one wanted to continue to participate in the European project, while the other sought to dilute and denature it. Since then, Greece's budgetary and fiscal decisions have been subject to the prior agreement of its creditors. The privatisation programme imposed on this country is the largest property transfer ever carried out in the European Union. Meanwhile, the social and economic situation of this Member State is in the red. Yet nothing is done and the fate of the Greeks is, today, in the hands of Ecofin, while 2.5 million Greeks no longer have access to health care and a whole generation is sacrificed. This is, no doubt, one of the consequences of the end of recreation that our Prime Minister proudly called his wishes. Mr Minister, how do you explain the European policy of blind austerity imposed on Greece, the intimidation of which it is subjected to, without taking into account the social and economic consequences of European decisions? Do you not think, Mr Minister, that this blindness can push Europeans to consider the exit? Does the Government intend to ask the Council to deal very quickly with the health and socio-economic situation in Greece, and this country must also deal with the reception of many refugees?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u46	Mr President, my colleague, your question has various aspects. As far as Greece is concerned, the latter has been the subject of two programmes. For example, 240 billion in aid was granted, which did not lead to substantial results simply because there were serious shortcomings in the implementation of the programme. Indeed, structural reforms have not been carried out or have been to a lesser extent carried out. I am thinking here of the labour market, pensions, the energy market, tax collection and other structural elements. A third programme has been implemented to the tune of EUR 86 billion, whose structural reforms are much more detailed and monitored much more closely than before. These reforms are necessary for the recovery of the Greek economy and for a new impetus for Greek growth. The comparison with the United Kingdom is a bit special because it held a democratic vote in favour of leaving the European Union. In Greece, on the other hand, the polls show very clearly that the Greek people want to remain, in the vast majority, in monetary union and in the European Union. The situation is completely different. It also means, if we want to remain a member of a monetary union, that all must follow rules, including Greece. It is therefore difficult to compare what is currently happening in the United Kingdom with the Greek situation. These are two rather different developments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u47	Minister, I hear your answer, once again, disappointing. The purpose of the question was not to compare Greece with England. You say that there is a lack of structural reforms, that there are rules to follow, but agree with me, Minister, that the Greeks have already made a lot of efforts and continue to do so. Minister, you didn't answer me. Do you really intend to relaunch the European project by making European solidarity conditional on austerity and by attacking the most fragile? When will the European Council decide to give full powers to finance ministers to decide on these social policies? I have already said this; what Europe needs is a policy for the citizens and not for the citizens. However, the bodies of the European Union do not seem to want to become aware of the situation and no aid measures are proposed to date to help them. I tell you again, Minister, we need to think about another Europe, a Europe that will reenchant Europeans with a strong social project. This is how you will restore confidence in the Greeks and more broadly to the European citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u48	Madam Minister, this week, a report from the WWF from the "WWF" did not come from the smallest environmental organization, which shows that 22 000 deaths in Europe each year are linked to the production of coal-based electricity. We have already got rid of this, but the countries that still use it make their citizens sick, or worse. We are dealing with 500 deaths a year in our country linked to the addiction to stone and lignite in a number of countries. That's more deaths than the number of traffic victims in Flanders. If we think about it at the same time and find that the Netherlands and Germany are asking us to close down a number of power stations and in return to introduce clean electricity that causes 300 casualties a year, this gives us a slightly different picture. Madam Minister, it is good to discuss this issue with our neighbouring countries. We need to get this conversation going. I have a few questions here. What's your response to the study? What steps do you wish to take? Will you start talking to the Netherlands and Germany about the problems their power stations pose for our families and companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u49	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as my colleague has just pointed out, WWF and three other operators have joined forces to report that more than 22,900 people have lost their lives as a result of air pollution caused by coal-fired power plants in Germany. This is an important figure when compared to the number of deaths on the road in 2013: more than 26,000. You see the order of magnitude. These figures are verified by a number of operators and data are available. Coal-fired power plants currently produce a quarter of the electricity in the European Union. It's important. The organisations point out that each plant is harmful to health, not only of the people close to it but also of neighbouring countries. Like my colleague, I wonder whether we are looking at our plants, but that air pollution is also an element to be taken into account for the Belgians. They also suffer the effects and premature deaths. Do you plead for Belgium's choice not to allow electricity from coal-fired power plants to be extended at European level? We've closed the Langerlo power plant. We must now go further and lead a proactive dynamic in Europe. What is the state of discussion about the Energy Union at the European Energy Council? Do you have an intensified, proactive approach to avoid coal-fired power plants? Should the energy mix to be made not be an integral part of the Energy Union? I remember that last week, in the context of the Brexit dossier, it was said that the Energy Union was one of the formulas that, perhaps even with a small number of countries, should be given priority in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I take note of the study quoted and will ask my administration to examine these figures, in cooperation with my colleague, Mrs De Block, responsible for Health. The findings in the report are in line with the fears I expressed with my colleague Jan Jambon at the beginning of February 2016 with regard to the German Minister for the Environment, Mrs Barbara Hendricks. Mr Hendricks has indeed informed us that the German coal plants will continue to operate until 2040. I have clearly expressed my concern about the impact that the conservation of these plants would have on the environment. Before I continue on the Energy Union, I would like to add a fundamental element. When we decide to replace nuclear energy, through a large project called Energiewende, with coal-fired power plants that we want to maintain until 2040, I have a big problem. On this subject, I will quote a well-known scientific author, Jean-Marc Jancovici, who says: "Coal is thus by far the most problematic of the energies we use. But this is clearly not the opinion of many so-called environmental activists, since they prefer to remove nuclear energy to replace it with coal. This logically leads to the following question: 'In essence, to be antinuclear, is it to be ecologist or just to be antinuclear?' [["]] I am continuing on the Energy Union. I would like to point out that one of the five pillars of the Energy Union is the decarbonisation of the European economy, including that of Germany. The Energy DG, in its note of 15 June to my attention, recommends a European increase in the price of CO2 in order to allow for a better profitability of cleaner gas plants. As far as I am concerned, I had already supported a revision of the European emissions trading system in my paper position of 2 December 2015. The latest cases for such coal-fired power plants have been rejected for environmental reasons at regional level. We have closed the last coal-fired power plant in Belgium. A plant in Luxembourg that served the strategic reserve will also be closed, according to the decision of the Board of Directors of 7 July. The energy mix is primarily a national competence, although you are right when you say that the impact of national decisions can also have a major influence on energy policy in neighbouring countries. All this is underpinned by obvious commercial relations. For this reason, Belgium is in favour of a greater exchange of information and coordination both at regional and European level. The Energy Union was launched in February 2015. Since then, half of the 43 actions included in the Energy Union Action Plan have been implemented. Negotiations are under way in Bonn on legislative initiatives on energy labelling, security of supply of natural gas and intergovernmental agreements. Further proposals on these materials, renewable energy resources and market design are expected later this year. Of course, we will take them into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u51	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It is a pity that our fellow Members, Mr Calvo and Mr Nollet, are not here to hear the answer, but I suppose this will also be broadcast in the coffee room. What is certainly a fact is that there are indeed a number of coal-loving nations in Europe that allow their neighbours passively to smoke more. There are very clear reasons for this, even if it has the necessary consequences. Think for a moment of the German Energiewende, which is neither mussel nor fish. On a large mountain of lignite one preaches the green faith, while in the ground there is still for 240 years brown coal. As far as lignite production is concerned, I believe they are world record holders, alongside European record holder for coal imports. Unfortunately, our Dutch friends are not doing much better either. Over the last five years, their production has increased when it comes to coal plants. More than 87 % extra compared to five years ago. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should do something about this. To deepen the debate, I have published a piece on newsmonkey. I invite everyone in this hemisphere, including those who are not here today, to tackle the problem at the root and to have the discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u52	Madam Minister, you have made a number of observations in your response and, rather, an assessment of the situation. I think that the discussions in this form are not enough at the moment. A stronger Energy Union is essential, particularly in the European dimension. You have to be, excuse the term, more energetic, Madam Minister. We need a proactive policy at European Union level. I don't see it in your answer. We need a clear and precise energy mix. We have to develop it, too. We can imagine, and we will no doubt move forward on this, a renewable gas energy mix. But for this to happen, we need a clear energy vision and we need to move forward in a proactive way. I'm afraid that's not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u53	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, during the bloody terrorist attack on the Bataclan concert hall, six French soldiers who were on the doorstep would not have acted, because their rules of engagement were not allowed to do so. Following the terrorist alarm in Verviers in January 2015, the government decided to have military personnel patrolling the streets on the basis of a protocol agreement between Defence and Home Affairs. You stated at that time that the protocol was not the ideal scenario as a legal basis and that the police law needed to be amended. In response to France's news and the state of the French military, you stated: "We do not communicate about these rules or commitment for security reasons, but our military have all the means at their disposal to respond adequately within their mission." Minister, that is clear. Nevertheless, I would like to put three questions to you. First of all, what are the rules or commitment to our military? Parliament has a right to know. Secondly, are our soldiers covered 100 % when it comes to an intervention in an attack or attack? Thirdly, in January 2015, you announced a legislative initiative to amend the police law. Is that what you're doing? When can we expect a concrete initiative?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u54	Mr President, Mr Yüksel, ladies and gentlemen, I used to say that, for security reasons, we do not communicate the rules or the commitment of our soldiers deployed. I don't see any reason to change that attitude. I have said before that I am always prepared in Parliament to provide the necessary information, albeit behind closed doors. That's not a problem for me. On your second question whether our soldiers are legally covered by 100 % if they have to act within their mandate, I can answer wholeheartedly. That is also partly an answer to your third question on the legislative initiative. I have indeed instructed the staff to examine the extent to which all the legal questions that could be asked could be adequately answered if the military had to act in one way or another. Apparently, the opinion is not unanimous today. However, we are satisfied that, on the basis of the law on self-defense and, more specifically, the law on extensive self-defense, we have enough legal elements to carry out the 100 percent mandate as it should be carried out within the existing legal framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u55	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. I believe that we must, of course, look here at the security of our citizens, but also at the security of our military. We will look into the need to exchange information behind closed doors. I would like to stress once again, Minister, that if I say that our military forces should not intervene, as is the case in France, then one may wonder what they are doing outside. I believe that we must avoid this. You don't bite the proverb "Blowing Dogs." That cannot and must not be the case here. Let us hope that our soldiers do not have to intervene. Let us hope that a repeat of 22 March will not take place. If that were to happen, our military must, of course, be able to protect the citizens who are in danger, as well as themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u56	Minister, an answer given at Infrabel's Infrastructure and Public Enterprises Committee this Tuesday by Infrabel's Director Traffic Management has really thrown the trouble into the minds of some as to the savings actually imposed on rail companies. The press directly seized the figure of EUR 1 billion that was launched in committee. Some enjoyed weighing up the euros by considering combinations as crazy as they were dramatic. For example, some have even "understood" that this was a billion additional savings to what had already been decided. The government is imposing rigour and savings in the management of rail companies. Of course, these decisions were clearly served as early as October 2014. So it's a well-known fact, and so it's not new information. Let the exercise be arduous, we can admit it. It must be admitted, because having to provide a quality service by analysing the relevance of each investment, to ensure that public money is used efficiently is a complex exercise to implement. What about, Minister, this information about a sum that is not annoyed, a billion euros? The underlying issue is the impact such savings could have on rail safety. In short, is it true that new scenarios are under consideration? Secondly, will the master plan drawn up following the Buizingen rail disaster be called into question because – and you have already said and repeated, you who have been chairman of the Buizingen commission – rail safety is the top priority?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to make it clear that the government is maintaining its initial course. There is no question of additional savings because some have a problem with the figures. My instructions are clear. No savings should jeopardize the implementation of the security plan. The request was made clearly to the CEO. I will set up a working group composed of technical representatives from Infrabel, SNCB, SPF Mobility and my firm, which will be responsible for ensuring the proper implementation of the masterplan within the time frame foreseen. I repeat: safety is my priority. Furthermore, I remain convinced that greater efficiency is compatible with a high level of security. Each official must ensure that the guidelines are adhered to in the letter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u58	Minister, thank you. We were all impressed – Mr Cheron is absent, but he would confirm it...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u59	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u60	Yes, yes, I know, but you did not attend the committee meeting. So we were all impressed when you responded by detailing your priorities for SNCB. We were more than pleasantly surprised – even if we already knew your qualities – by your absolute knowledge of the file. Your answer reassures us. We were already convinced of that, but it is good that the assembly is now informed of it. It is clear that, like Mini Mir, you will do more with less. This is extremely important to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u61	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u62	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 July 2016, I propose that you enter on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the draft law implementing and supplementing Regulation (EU) No. 910/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions in the internal market and repealing Directive 1999/93/EC, inserting Title 2 in book XII "Right of the electronic economy' of the Code of Economic Law, and inserting the definitions inherent in Title 2 of book XII and the law enforcement provisions inherent in Title 2 of book XII, in books I, XV and XVII of the Code of Economic Law, Nos 1893/1 to 3; - the proposal (Mr Peter Vanvelthoven, Mr Stéphane Crusnière and Mr Benoît Dispa) to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to examine the operation of financial supervisors and the special tax inspection in the control of the Optima bank, No. 1938/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 July 2016, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the draft law implementing and supplementing Regulation (EU) No 910/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions in the internal market and repealing Directive 1999/93/EC, inserting Title 2 in Book XII "Law on the electronic economy" of the Code of Economic Law and incorporating the definitions specific to Title 2 of Book XII and the implementing provisions specific to Title 2 of Book XII, in Books I, XV and XVII of the Code of Economic Law, Nos. 1893/1 to 3; - the proposal (MM. Peter Vanvelthoven, Stéphane Crusnière and Benoît Dispa) to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to examine the functioning of the financial supervisory authorities and the Special Inspectorate of Taxes in the context of the supervision of Optima Bank, No 1938/1. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u63	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Calomne. He shall refer to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u64	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1886/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1886/3) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u65	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u66	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Wouter Raskin, Yoleen Van Camp, Inez De Coninck.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u67	The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (1534/5) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1534/5) The meeting's open. The discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mrs Grovonius, referred to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, every year the Infrabel spray train runs about 10 000 km to fight the weeds on the riverbed and in the riverbeds. This is an important task in terms of railway safety and therefore also for the punctuality of trains. Without this command, signals and switches can be disrupted, the braking and acceleration process can be hindered, technical installations can be overgrown and stability problems can occur. The fight today is almost entirely based on chemical pesticides, pesticides and herbicides. Alternative control techniques are very labour-intensive and therefore a lot more expensive. Every year, this spray train emits about 6 000 litres of pesticides. A European Directive was already introduced in 2009 to create a common regulatory framework on the sustainable use of pesticides and herbicides. In recent years, the federal government and the Länder have also taken measures to reduce the use of chemical pesticides. The aim is clear and logical: to protect human health and the environment from the risks associated with the use of such products. Scientific studies indicate the use of chemical pesticides as a possible cause of cancers, nerve diseases, fertility problems and other diseases. Derogations from the ban on the use of pesticides are possible where, for example, there are no adequate non-chemicals or where alternatives entail disproportionate costs. On that basis, Infrabel enjoys an exception. However, it is difficult to say that the company has done nothing, has not taken any measures to reduce the impact of these pesticides. People have started to act selectively around these pesticides. In recent years, less harmful products have been used and camera detection has been installed, which allows targeted spraying rather than over entire surfaces. Other materials and techniques are used in the construction of new traces, which can make weeds less thriving and sensitive areas, such as drinking water protection zones or other protected sites, are also taken into account. They're mechanically maintained. Despite all these efforts, the amount of sprayed areas is not falling significantly. This is due to repeated exercises, due to the weather conditions and to additional zones. In the long term, the only sustainable solution is to replace chemical exterminators. That is why this initiative is before us today. The intention is to support Infrabel by bringing all available expertise around the table. It is also intended to put a sustainable but financially viable alternative on paper and to carry out research into the feasibility of the full conversion to mechanical vegetation control or other techniques. The findings of the Working Group should lead to a plan of action and a maximum and financially portable substitution of chemical pesticides. If substitution is found to be unfeasible at acceptable cost, the aim should be to reduce the quantities sprayed, e.g. by a wider definition of "susceptible areas'. That is why we have come to five concrete requests to the government. Firstly, to set up a working group in which Infrabel, and possibly the subsidiaries concerned, as well as the public and private sector partners and stakeholders are invited to participate in civil society. Secondly, that working group is instructed to draw up a plan of action with binding obligations for subcontractors to combat sustainable and financially portable vegetation on and along the railway lines, as well as a way of using chemical pesticides as little as possible. Thirdly, the government must ensure that the working group meets regularly and ask for a final report to be submitted by spring 2018 at the latest. Fourthly, the government is asked to hold regular consultations with the members of the working group on the progress of work and to return to the Chamber of Representatives. Finally, the government is asked, in consultation with Infrabel, to implement the final proposed plan of action.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have said in committee that we will support this resolution. However, we do not understand and we regret that last week in plenary, including the N-VA, a motion by our colleague Mr Jiroflée on the protection of public health and the use of arthropods was voted down. That's two sizes and two weights. I understand that there is still a discussion in the Committee on Health. We hope, therefore, that there will be some continuity from this majority, otherwise I can only conclude that the adoption of this resolution would lead to hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u70	Mr. Cheron was registered, but he's not here. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. No amendments were tabled or retabled. No amendments have been tabled or retabled. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place later. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u71	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Sabien Lahaye-Battheu, Egbert Lachaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u72	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1565/3) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1565/3) The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u73	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at our committee meeting on 22 June we discussed and adopted in detail the resolution on improved social dialogue in the SNCB Group. What is the proposal for a resolution about, ladies and gentlemen? The proposal calls on the government to launch social elections in the SNCB Group and to ensure that services are provided. In addition, we are calling for a tougher approach to the occupation of signalling stations and railway installations. Finally, we insist that an increase in staff productivity should go hand in hand with an improvement in working conditions. The first part of this proposal concerns the social elections. First of all, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their support for these points in committee. Colleagues, I am afraid that you have again experienced the power of the trade unions this year. Too often the strike was called for and travelers were held hostage after a fingernip from the unions. Today it is not at all clear who the unions represent, because the staff of the train company cannot now elect their representatives. The delegates are appointed internally by the union itself. Nor should they in any way be accountable to the supporters for their positions. I would like to give some examples of the staff's follow-up to calls for strike. I refer, among other things, to the period of wild strikes between 25 May and 3 June. In the case of SNCB, the highest strike rate was recorded. On 26 May, 28% of French-speaking employees and 10% of Dutch-speaking workers ceased working. On 30 May the differences were even greater: 24 % versus 3 %. By Infrabel, 15% of French-speaking staff ceased working on 26 May and 14% on 27 May. The percentage of Dutch-speaking employees was around 1% on those days. This shows that today, more than ever, there is a need to regulate the representation of the unions through social elections. In the meantime, we have discussed and partially adopted in committee the draft law on various provisions on mobility. There will be a second reading next Thursday morning. That draft law actually already answers our question in our motion for a resolution to organise social elections in the SNCB Group. According to the draft, these elections will take place from 2018. The second part of the proposed text concerns the provision of guaranteed services. A great deal has already been said about this in the Chamber. On 31 May we received an interesting explanation in committee from SNCB and Infrabel and it was explained to us that four scenarios could be worked out on strike days. In those scenarios, trains may run on strike days, provided that staff inform at least 72 hours before the strike day whether it will work or not. On the basis of staff available on the strike day, an à la carte transport plan can then be rolled out. So it's possible. We therefore call on the government to implement the guaranteed service. The penultimate point of the motion for a resolution concerns the observation that, unfortunately, strikes are still being carried out and that signal houses are being occupied. For some time now, Infrabel has been taking preventive action in court throughout the country in order to obtain a judge's decision on a unilateral application in order to obtain a periodic penalty payment or to remove persons on the trail by means of service by a bailiff. Figures show that Infrabel in the 39 arrondissements in which it applied for such decisions on a unilateral application has been upheld by the court. That is correct, because walking on the tracks and tracks or occupying signal houses is very dangerous for safety and completely confuses train traffic. We believe that this tough approach should be maintained. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the 4% increase in the productivity of the railway company, as laid down by this government, should be accompanied by an improvement in the working conditions of the workforce. We note that the statute is hopelessly obsolete, that internal regulation and paperwork are unnecessarily complex, that staff are also the victims and that there is a staff problem, in the sense that leave days and holidays often cannot be taken. So we think it's an en-en-story. Productivity needs to be improved, but work must also be done to improve working conditions and modernise them in the interests of staff. Finally, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their constructive dialogue and support in committee, and I can tell you that at least our group will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as we have already said in committee, our group fully supports the resolution tabled by my fellow Members from the Open Group. The content of this resolution is in line with the coalition agreement and with the strategic vision of rail, which was developed and explained here by the previous Minister for Mobility, Mrs Galant. This resolution and the demands that it entails are urgently needed if we are to ensure the future of our railways. Studies confirm this and I have also referred to this in committee when discussing this point. There is a study by the Boston Consulting Group that shows that our rail companies are at the bottom of the track in terms of performance. We pay a very high price for a rather limited service. That we can do better, that is absolutely a fact. As explained by the author, the resolution contains six requests to the government. Firstly, the social elections. I have already argued in favour of this during Question Time in plenary. It is now the case that the staff of SNCB cannot elect their delegates. I wonder if they still feel represented by their union. Moreover, the trade unions currently have 73 exempts at SNCB. These are 73 people who are paid full-time by the company, in fact by the taxpayer, to do trade union work. There is a serious cost side to this, namely EUR 11 million per year. This has already been discussed in detail. What union work do they do? We note, for example, that they object in principle to proposals on guaranteed service, which is one of the tasks. They do not object to the substance of the four scenarios explained, but they object in principle. With regard to the productivity-enhancing measures set out in the social dialogue, the same answer emerged, namely a basic objection which also led to strikes. I therefore believe that this system must stop in order to evolve into a democratic system in which trade unionists are elected by their employees. The second request is to organise the elections within a reasonable time. That makes sense to me. The third request concerns the irregular occupation of signalling stations and railway installations. As the applicant has already explained, occupying signals and rail houses is a criminal offence. That's why Infrabel got right from the judge after a unilateral petition to act against it. Colleagues, the occupation of tracks and signalling houses poses a huge risk; it is jeopardising the safety of all rail traffic. I am therefore looking forward to the intervention of my colleagues from the opposition, because they did not agree to this request. So I'm curious about their explanation. The fourth request concerns the provision of guaranteed services. I think you are all aware of our group's position on this. It's very important. SNCB still has a monopoly on domestic passenger transport. The traveller therefore has no alternative on a strike day. We have also seen in the scenarios explained by the companies themselves that it is perfectly possible to roll out such a system. The bill we have tabled is quite ambitious. The scenarios outlined are actually based on a voluntary basis and are also realistic when taking into account the strike figures and the willingness to strike recorded in the last strikes. This request was approved by a majority in Parliament. I therefore believe that this is an enormous signal for the government to take urgent action on this matter. The Minister is no longer here, but we will tell him that at committee meetings. The fifth and sixth requests concern productivity gains and the improvement of staff working conditions. I refer again to the study of the Boston Consulting Group. This study shows that we actually offer poor services at a high price, with all the consequences for the working conditions of the staff. Mr Lahaye-Battheu has also mentioned this. I think these two requests should go hand in hand. It cannot be the intention to offer a super-royal status with many leave days, which cannot, however, be included. The conclusion is that our group will approve this resolution, as in committee. Our starting point in this dossier, and throughout the railway file, is, as Mr Flahaux said just now, that we are doing le minimir, we are doing more with less. A better service for the traveller, for less money, is what we are doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we will not vote in favour of this resolution. What really bothers me is the gongfler la poitrine, the muscle display of the N-VA and the Open Vld, where they permanently bashen the staff of SNCB and of Infrabel, as if they were companies where only imbeciles work. That is your starting point to approach these companies. That is why you always make proposals to make the efficiency and operation of these companies more difficult. Let me look at the resolution myself. For example, in your introduction, in the explanatory statement, it says that there must be social elections. And as a motivation, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, you say that there are no social elections and that the joint committees are actually not representative enough. Well, it's exactly your liberal party, and also the MR, who has moved heaven and earth to admit the VSOA into the National Joint Committee. Representativeness? 900 members out of 36 000! So do not give up on representativeness in your explanatory statement if you are trying to achieve that elsewhere. Once again, I believe that your resolution does not really have much to say about it. Once again, there is talk of syndical elections. Once again, our group is in favour of this. But when I read your arguments, I find them poorly formulated. I also believe that you have another agenda, which you should have put forward in all honesty. You are both referring to the guaranteed service, it is true, we have heard a presentation with four different scenarios, but you forget to say repeatedly what has been clearly stated by the people of HR Rail and the various companies, namely that such systems can only work if they are developed with the support of and in accordance with the syndicated organisations. If this is not the case, it cannot be carried out. It is essential that this premise is followed. As far as timing is concerned, there were positive proposals in the committee, for example from Mr Yüksel and Mr Van den Bergh on diversity policy with SNCB, but that should not be dealt with and this had to be dealt with at all costs. For me, this is an occupation therapy, because a week later, the Minister came up with a draft law laying down various provisions on mobility, and there was a whole debate about these syndical elections. Was it about allowing each other to be the most punished, right? With apologies for the colleagues of CD&V, but CD&V stood there, looked at it and let it pass. That is why we voted against that resolution in committee and will do it again here in plenary today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u77	Mr President, Mr Geerts, you say that this resolution is intended to bash the staff, I think you used that word. That's not right at all. What can you do to prevent the railway company's staff from being able to determine its Members through elections? Today it is true that there are no elections, so it is precisely a step forward for the staff to be able to identify democratically who wants it as delegates in the company. You disagree with Mr van Ecolo-Groen. I thanked them during my speech. I am looking at Mr Cheron, who has voted in favour of social elections. Mr Cheron, you said that you were going to vote in favour of points 1 and 2 of the resolution because you are in favour of elections. You'll probably say the same later. Mr Geerts, you must not look for a split in the majority. I would simply like to point out that during the discussion in committee a vast majority was won in favour of this obvious principle that we should be able to identify its representatives in the trade union in a democratic way. You also forget to mention that our resolution clearly calls for the improvement of working conditions for staff, the issue of leave days which cannot be included, the status which is often obsolete, useless administrative procedures and so on. We also want work to be done on this in order to improve working conditions for staff. It's in the text, but you forget to mention it. However, I would like to stress this because this resolution is not a staff basing at all. On the contrary, it is about the future of the company. Mr Geerts, when there is no business, there is absolutely no future for the staff. We're here to save and improve the company.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u78	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, if you read the report of my current speech and the report of my speech on the draft several provisions on mobility, in which I would have said that our group is against social elections. I have clearly stated here that our group...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u79	(...).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u80	You're saying I'm against it now. (...)(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u81	No, I will not vote for the resolution because it gives little added value to the debate. Mrs De Coninck stated earlier that there would be so many exempts. I simply note that you now want force par force to extend the national joint committee to allow, for example, the USOA with 900 members, which is not a problem for me. However, do not use two sizes and two weights. That is what we are putting forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u82	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have to discuss a proposal from my excellent colleague, sometimes Chairman of the Committee on Infrastructure, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu. The title of this text is extremely friendly. I would even say that the title is kind, since it invites us to improve the social dialogue within the SNCB Group. Ladies and gentlemen, I suppose you can imagine the exceptional ambition described in the title and in the resolution. Of course, it is a resolution, and we will be "resolutionaries", dear friends of the PTB, by voting a large text of resolution. We will make a good resolution! The paradox of the text tabled by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu is that it contains a little bit of everything. I hesitate between the formula "Belgian cheeses" and that of Mr Geens, "pots-pourri". The pot pourri is another version of the melting pot. It's a little bit of everything. There are things you like and others you don't like, like in the menus. You're almost forced to take the dessert you don't like if you really like the entrance. The problem is that this text does contain elements that are of interest to us. Mrs De Coninck and Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, we did not escape you. Yes, the Ecolo-Groen Group believes that in the SNCB Group, social elections should be held. It's important, it's a revolution. What a big word! Over the past centuries, many have fought for social democracy and social elections in enterprises, including public enterprises. So when we like something in a text, we support it. This may be surprising, but we say yes to social elections in the SNCB Group. Should this be done within a reasonable time? Yes! What is a reasonable delay? We did not know when we were discussing the resolution in committee. But since then, Minister Bellot has defended in committee the preliminary draft tabled by Mrs Galant. Already it's scary. The draft bill that was introduced by Ms. Galant is a bill that is now under consideration in committee. It will come to second reading in committee next Thursday, if the Conference of Presidents so decides on Wednesday. This project also affects various elements of the railway code. It includes the organization of social elections at SNCB, on separate dates from other social elections. This surprised us a little, because we think it may be better to have all social elections coincided. Mr. Bellot's text distinguishes dates. But we will discuss this text in due course. I would add, for all those who are concerned about the social elections in the SNCB Group, that we are now discussing a resolution, but we are already familiar with the following text. Mr Geerts, I think that's what you wanted to say. The next text provides that social elections will be held only in the regional joint commissions. Unless I have understood correctly, Mrs De Coninck, I have the impression that the manner of doing this will be unchanged at the level of the National Joint Commission. The number of members of trade union organisations will be counted and there will be no social elections at that level. I'm already drawing attention to this. I hope the majority will not be disappointed. I assume you knew the project when you tabled it. I can't imagine for a second that you didn't know him. I'm not going to cool your enthusiasm, which is interesting. I'm always moved when the N-VA is passionate about a subject. It's really important. But when Mr Bellot's text is discussed in committee and here, I will still show the difference with the motion for a resolution. You will understand that the Ecolo-Groen Group absolutely supports social elections. We believe that it is in the interest of the SNCB Group that there should be a genuine social democracy. The social elections are crucial, founders, so that there is a new start for the SNCB group. We would have liked these social elections to be properly prepared. This will be discussed again during the discussion of the project. But the draft as drafted will oblige the current social partners within the SNCB Group – not those who could be appointed on the basis of future social elections – to define very quickly, in three months, all the arrangements for organising social elections. This concerns us because, according to Mr Bellot's text – which I can translate if you have not understood it correctly – if, between September and December, the required two-thirds majority is not reached and no agreement is reached within the National Joint Committee of SNCB, the modalities will be defined by the government. That's what I'm worried about! As far as the resolution is concerned, unfortunately, it is not just points 1 and 2. There is also the question of guaranteed service. It is therefore not a question of minimum service. In any case, no clarification is given. In the Committee on Infrastructure, we were able to hear the different scenarios that have been developed. You don't say how you think you're doing it. You don't say what you want either. Would you like to have crowded trains every two hours? Do you want a French, Italian, Swiss or N-VA system? I don't know. You also told us about productivity gains. What will these gains be based on? Only on the workers? Only on those who, within the SNCB Group, are at work in trains such as drivers, escorts who repair the catenaries? Yesterday, there was talk of maintaining capacity in committee. And you have swept away the right resolutions of the opposition, which is unfortunate. Also know that this kind of behavior can only move me. However, as I said a moment ago, the question is whether we want to bring productivity or efficiency gains only to rail workers. If so, this would, of course, be unacceptable. Do you not think that we are facing a small governance problem within SNCB and Infrabel? The question of the subsidiaries, of TUC RAIL, which your group condemns, is raised in various files. Finally, icing on the cake – I made culinary comparisons earlier – you are urging the SNCB Group to combine these reforms with measures to improve working conditions. In other words, the improvement of working conditions goes beyond everything else, after imposing unacceptable conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, before such a text, it is impossible to speak out. I shall therefore ask you, Mr President, for a split vote so that we can vote on each of the points and give a very clear opinion on the conditions laid down in this text. You will understand that the Ecolo-Groen Group will vote yes to the first two points relating to the social elections, but we will not be able to support the other points, the recitals and the far too radical measures, as we want to improve the social dialogue within the SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u83	Mr President, first of all I would like to say to the two authors that I am wondering about the usefulness of this motion for a resolution because, finally, what they are asking the government is to do what the government is doing. That's pretty amazing. Personally, I would have added that the minister is being asked to be called François. That would have added to the relevance of this motion for a resolution. What is the usefulness of this resolution? That's a first point. More fundamentally, I think you really deserve the Oscar of Surrealism. Indeed, you are giving the aim of such a motion for a resolution to improve the social dialogue within the SNCB, while the government is breaking this social dialogue and making a social break. This is crazy! You really deserve the Oscar of Surrealism. In any case, you dare! Secondly, you point out in point 5 that productivity gains must be achieved and, in the next point, that the working conditions of the staff must be improved. This deserves a second Oscar of Surrealism! It's pretty amazing. How is the government's policy towards SNCB problematic? It's because there's no strategic vision. We're talking about strategic vision, but it doesn't exist. There is a budgetary vision. That's right! But there is no strategic vision. We have €3 billion less for the SNCB over the legislature. It is clearly to break the company and mobility in public transport. It is also a policy that leads to deficiencies in security. We saw him in the recent accident in Saint-Georges-sur-Meuse. These are tickets that are more expensive each year. It's a RER that no one knows when it will be put in place. It's even a train project without attendants. The minister confirmed this, when we saw the full importance of the attendant in the Saint-Georges-sur-Meuse accident. They are hundreds of kilometres of lanes that are no longer or almost maintained and are likely to be removed. These are stations that are left abandoned and turned into stop points. They are trains which, every day, are late because they are not repaired. I'm going through it almost every day. And these are working conditions that, unlike what you indicate in your proposal, are actually deteriorating and have an impact on the quality of service and safety. I understand that the railwaymen are angry. To read your text, SNCB staff would include a small minority of strikers who would impose their views on all staff. I'll make a proposal for you. Since you say that staff must be voted on to elect delegates. Given that, in your view, it is a minority that is challenging the government's policy, I will propose that you hold an internal government referendum on SNCB. We will then see the results and we will be able to verify whether a majority of railway workers agree with government policy. I also understand that users are angry. Have you ever heard of the travel associations? Do you think they are happy with the Galant-Bellot Plan and its strategic vision? Do you listen to them sometimes? We members of the PTB want social peace, but who doesn't want it? It is clearly the government, which has decided to join forces with SNCB staff. That is why we will obviously not be able to support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u84	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u85	The vote on the proposal will take place later. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u86	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Flahaux, rapporteur, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u87	I would like to emphasise two things, Mr President. This bill has had a lot of ground to cover. I remember the first vote on the relevant principles in 2010 and 2011. We then had to withdraw them because of a lack of prior notification to the European Commission and the European Council. In the end, we are here and there is a regulation that we are implementing here, with a number of important principles. Firstly, it is a question of harmonising or standardising the concept of electronic registered consignments. The fact that we standardise them makes it possible for a large number of suppliers to market a product with which those goods are offered, while they are compatible with each other. It is a standard that has the advantage of enabling us to exchange data between services and citizens in a secure and authenticated way, in our own digital data exchange, and not to develop our own platforms over and over again or to invent the hot water again and again. We can now use a standard product. This offers a huge opportunity, both for ourselves and for the many companies in this country. Hence a call on the Minister and the Government to make use of it and to establish coordination between the various administrations so that not every service has to reinvent the hot water. Secondly, electronic archiving makes it possible for another important point to be stressed that everything that is required to be kept on paper today can now also be digitised. However, this does not prevent those things that need to be kept up to date without the specification that it should be mandatory on paper, from still being kept up to date and archived in the trusted way, without having to switch to another platform. That is a great comfort for the many accountants and many companies that keep their accounts and tax administration digitally today. They will not have to switch to another platform. That is not required in this regard. It is important to stress that for those people to remove anxiety.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u88	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u89	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1893/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1933) The draft law contains 50 articles and two annexes. The bill has 50 articles and two annexes. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u90	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u91	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Peter Vanvelthoven, Stéphane Crusnière, Benoît Dispa.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u92	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u93	Mr President, this is indeed Mr Vanvelthoven's proposal, for which the urgency was almost unanimously approved by this Chamber last week. The proposal was discussed yesterday in the Finance Committee. Several amendments were tabled and were adopted unanimously each time. I would like to emphasise this. This is a collaboration, a unanimous story. Only the amendment aimed at granting a special statute to the small groups, so that they too could participate in the work of this committee, was voted down. All the other amendments were either withdrawn or adopted unanimously. This demonstrates the broad support for the scope, scope and elements which this committee will take to heart. This proposal was accepted on a broad basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u94	Thank you for this report, Mr Dedecker. In the meantime, the report has been distributed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u95	Mr President, it makes no difference whether I sit or stand, but this time I will stand. I remember standing there last time with the Dexia Committee and all of us agreed that we should bring up the bottom stone. We are now unanimous in our agreement that we will be looking very widely at an exodus from Dexia in a real committee of inquiry, across the borders of majority and opposition. I am also very pleased that a member of the opposition has been allowed to become chairman. I would have preferred to do it myself, but Mr Van Rompuy is the perfect second choice. I trust that we will work very well together in committee and in this case everything can be unraveled from start to finish. Not for the pleasure of reconstructing, but above all to see whether the recommendations proposed at the time by the Dexia Committee were sufficient, and to see whether the recommendations that have been lost or, unfortunately, censored at the time could have helped us to avoid this dossier. I hope, above all, that we will achieve a result which will enable us to look the ordinary citizen in the eye and say that we have done everything we can to ensure that this does not happen again in the future. The Green Group will take full responsibility for this, in good cooperation, I hope, with all the other groups in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are voting on the establishment of a committee of inquiry on Optima. Of course, we think that is an excellent idea. We need to examine what has gone wrong in this dossier. That's important. In 2008, we pumped EUR 20 billion into these banks. The control of these banks does not seem to go far enough. They can still do whatever they want with our money. Then the government must pay again for what is happening in the banking sector. In this sense, we think it is very positive that we are voting today on the setting up of a committee of inquiry. The question then arises as to who may be part of this committee. We have seen that many traditional political parties are more or less linked to that dossier. Then we think democratically: it is good that there are still parties that are not linked to it, such as the PvdA, who might be allowed to participate in this committee. You know that a Panama Commission has been set up. We were allowed to be part of that. So the PvdA asked the majority parties to participate in this committee. What was the answer? No answer. There was a factual answer: no, the PvdA should not be part of this committee of inquiry. My colleague, Marco Van Hees, has asked four or five times why we should not participate. He didn't get a reason. The chairman of the committee even said that he personally thought it could be done. This has been submitted to the Conference of Presidents and no reason has yet been given. Can you decide today whether we can be part of this committee? Members of the majority, what do you have to hide in order not to allow us to participate in this committee? You know that the opposition parties supported this committee. Make a decision today. Give us the right to participate. We will ask questions, perhaps ambitious questions, but that is what we stand for. If certain politicians are going to have a drink on a boat, we will see if that has caused problems. If certain politicians have had sponsorship problems and given some sponsors a little more money, then we will also check in committee whether the FSMA or the National Bank have done their job. Please allow us to participate in the committee. Don't make it another conversation without the smaller parties asking ambiting questions. So I am asking the question here today: is it still possible to integrate us into the committee? We are part of the Panama Commission. You can decide today, an amendment was tabled to allow members of political parties such as the PVDA to participate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u97	I have a small question. I didn't get one thing right. You're saying you're on the Panama Commission, isn't that right or isn't that right? That's not a committee of inquiry. Are you a member there? That's my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u98	Yes, we are members of the Panama Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u99	I hear the opposite here, that you are not a permanent member.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u100	You think we should perhaps be part of the proposed committee, don't you?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u101	I don't think so. I'm asking if you're a member of the Panama Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u102	You were almost there. We are members of the Panama Committee and we ask you why we should not be part of the Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u103	Apparently, this isn't true. I'm hearing the opposite. I'm just asking if you're a permanent member of the Panama Commission, that's all I'm asking.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u104	I want to know something else.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u105	I'm just asking a question: are you a certain member of the Panama Commission? You're not standing here telling the truth. You're taking a walk with the truth.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u106	Give us still one reason why we cannot enter the proposed committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u107	I see you're not telling the truth, and that's enough for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u108	In order to make it easier, we will table an amendment which will allow you to approve our participation in the proposed committee. If you really want to know the truth with the Optima Committee, let all parties, whatever their powers. Mr Van Hees has already published two books on the banking sector. Who can doubt that he can add anything to the committee? Mr President, I propose that we vote on our amendment today. I have not yet heard any argument as to why we should not enter, so I hope that all parties will approve our amendment. We shall then vote in favour of the proposal. If we cannot enter, we cannot, of course, approve it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u109	Mr President, at the end of the general discussion, allow me to add the following.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u110	We are to the last speakers in the general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u111	Once the last statement has been made, I would like to ask everyone to give their full support to the proposal. The majority and opposition have decided together to set up a committee of inquiry. We must be able to reveal what has gone wrong now that, despite all the rules adopted in Parliament, a bank can still go bankrupt. Through the guarantee system, the Belgian State is directly or indirectly involved. I would like to say to Mr Hedebouw that if he rereads his statement, he will understand why we need to apply the Rules of Procedure strictly. Membership of the Committee of Inquiry requires a political group. That is all I want to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u112	Mr Van Biesen, I would like to hear an argument from the majority or from the opposition, from all those who have decided that among themselves. After all, it is a déjà vu, just as we experienced it with the Committee of Inquiry into the attacks. Even then, all the parties with butter on their heads decided that only they should be present at the meetings of the Committee of Inquiry. I would like to hear an argument as to why the smaller groups should not be inclined to do so. You can perfectly respect democratic relations by adding, as in the past, a member, not entitled to vote. Then we can at least be elected to open our mouths for that. If you say that it is the intention to take the bottom line, then it would be in the interests of you to include every critical vote in the Committee of Inquiry. When the Committee of Inquiry on Terror was set up, the only so-called argument I heard was that it was not necessary to complicate the work without, of course, being able to make it concrete. I would like to hear an argument, if you really think that the bottom stone should be raised, why the smaller groups should not be represented in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u113	Mr President, I do not want to say here on behalf of my group why a particular group cannot participate. There is the Rules of Procedure. But Mrs Pas, nothing prevented you from joining with DéFI and PTB-GO! to form a technical group in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u114	Mr Van Biesen, the more you talk, the less clear it is! Why do you reject the participation of non-recognized groups? This is a question that you have been asked several times in committee. Even opposition colleagues who supported our amendment have asked you, Mr Van Biesen, and the other colleagues in the majority. You never gave the slightest answer! There is even one member of the majority who told me in part: "We are not obliged to motivate". You see the level of consciousness of this majority! We don't have to motivate! What do you have to hide in this case? That's the question we're asking ourselves. Mr. Piedboeuf, what do you have to hide? You can answer us! It would be interesting to have at least one answer! Make yourself so much in your pants with our presence that you don't even dare to motivate! Are you right in your boots? Can you justify the rejection of our presence in this committee? The question arises. In any case, this is not a regulatory problem. There have been enough precedents of parliamentary committees of inquiry that have been held with unrecognized groups. Don't come with the question of the Rules of Procedure! That is not the question. It's a political choice. This political choice, by what means is it determined? Mr Piedboeuf, Mr Van Biesen, do you have an answer to give us?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u115	Mr President, it does not happen often, but I must agree with Mr Van Hees. You are referring to a regulation, Mr Van Biesen. What rules? The Rules of Procedure which state that a committee of inquiry may itself determine its mandate and composition in a legislative proposal. There have been enough anomalies in the past. I myself entered the Committee of Inquiry into tax fraud in the previous legislature. Together with you, Mr Van Biesen! So you are well aware that an additional member of the Ecolo-Green Technical Group has been added, without voting rights. Exceptions are made à la carte. There's no rules. It is up to the Committee of Inquiry to decide. It's just a political decision. I want to hear an argument for that political decision. Why do people hold critical votes from a committee of inquiry when it is supposedly intended to raise the bottom stone? You can't explain that!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u116	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u117	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1938/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1938/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u118	The proposal contains 8 articles. The proposal has 8 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u119	• 13... Barbara Pas (1938/5) • 14 years Marco Van Hees cs (1938/5) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the Rule that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u120	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Article 5. Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 4, 6 to 8.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u121	******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u122	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 19 May 2016, a call for candidates for the mandates of member non-notary of the Appointment Committees for the notaryate appeared in the Belgian Official Journal of 27 May 2016. In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 19 May 2016, a call for candidates for the non-notary member's terms of office for the Notariat Appointment Commissions was published in the Moniteur belge of 27 May 2016. Fourteen applications were submitted within the prescribed deadline. Fourteen applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit. There are insufficient candidates for the alternate member's mandates for the "teacher or professor" category of the Dutch-speaking and French-speaking Appointments Committee and for the "external members" category of the French-speaking Appointments Committee. There are not enough candidates for alternate members for the "course or teacher" category for the French- and Dutch-language Appointment Commissions as well as for the "external members" category for the French-language Appointment Commission. No candidate of the French-speaking Appointments Committee provides proof of the knowledge of German. No candidate for the Commission de nomination de langue française provides proof of knowledge of German. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 July 2016, I propose that you publish a second call to candidates for the mandates of deputy and effective member for all categories in the Belgian Official Journal. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 July 2016, I propose that you publish a second call for candidates for the terms of alternate and effective members for all categories in the Belgian Moniteur. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u123	The next item is the secret vote on naturalisations. (1860/1-2) The next item is the vote on naturalisations. (1860/1-2) Members are invited to deposit the proposal of naturalisation laws in the ballot box. Members are requested to submit the proposed naturalization laws in the ballot box. The proposal of naturalisation laws must not be signed. The proposed naturalization laws cannot be signed. Where a member opposes the naturalisation of an applicant, he shall delete the name of the interested party from the list which was delivered to him. A member who does not intend to grant naturalization to an applicant will delete the name of the applicant from the list given to him. Two Members must vote. I propose that our youngest two Members, Mrs Yoleen Van Camp and Mr Kristof Calvo, be appointed as voters. Two members shall proceed to the counting of the ballot. I propose that you appoint the two youngest members, Mrs Yoleen Van Camp and Mr Kristof Calvo, as deputy returning officer. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u124	We are going to close the secret vote on naturalization applications. We will close the ballot for naturalization applications. I would ask those Members who have not yet done so to put their ballots on the bus immediately. I ask those members who have not yet tabled their ballots to do so immediately. The secret ballot is closed. I declare the ballot closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u125	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 July 2016, I also propose that you consider: - the bill (Mrs Muriel Gerkens and Mrs Evita Willaert, Mr Marcel Cheron and Mr Georges Gilkinet, Mrs Anne Dedry, Mr Benoit Hellings, Mrs Meyrem Almaci and Mr Jean-Marc Nollet and Mr Gilles Vanden Burre) on voluntary termination of pregnancy, No. 1947/1. - the legislative proposal (Mr Raf Terwingen, Ms Sonja Becq and Mr Hendrik Bogaert and Mr Roel Deseyn) amending the law of 21 December 2013 establishing a DNA database "Missed Persons', No. 1952/1. Sent to the Justice Commission - the legislative proposal (Mrs Els Van Hoof) amending the Royal Decree of 25 November 1991 on unemployment regulations relating to voluntary work abroad, No. 1953/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u126	- the bill (Mr Brecht Vermeulen) amending the law of 21 December 1998 on safety at football matches with regard to the clubs concerned, No. 1955/1. Sent to the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 July 2016, I also propose that you take into account: - the bill (Ms. Muriel Gerkens and Evita Willaert, MM. Marcel Cheron and Georges Gilkinet, Anne Dedry, Benoit Hellings, Meyrem Almaci and MM. Jean-Marc Nollet and Gilles Vanden Burre) on voluntary termination of pregnancy, No 1947/1. - the draft law (Mr Raf Terwingen, Ms Sonja Becq and Messrs. Hendrik Bogaert and Roel Deseyn) amending the Act of 21 December 2013 concerning the creation of a DNA database "Persons Missing", n° 1952/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u127	- the proposal for a law (Ms Els Van Hoof) amending the Royal Decree of 25 November 1991 regulating unemployment, with regard to volunteering abroad, No 1953/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u128	- the draft law (Mr Brecht Vermeulen) amending the Act of 21 December 1998 on security during football matches as regards the clubs concerned, No 1955/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u129	Mr President, I would like to request the urgent treatment of this bill (No. 1955). We agreed on that in committee yesterday. My motivation is the explicit demand of a number of local police zones and of the federal police to broaden the scope of the football law, specifically as regards second and third amateur clubs. The police forces ask for this to be done as soon as possible so that it can be applied in the next football season.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall be voting on this in the usual way. Those who support the urgency stand now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u131	The proposal will be referred to the Committee on the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u132	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law on various provisions to combat terrorism (III) was submitted (No. 1951/1)......................................................................................... The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when introducing the draft law on various provisions for the fight against terrorism (III) (No. 1951/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u133	Mr President, the government is asking for urgency, as everyone understands that the terrorist threat is still high, which constantly requires considerable efforts in criminal investigations. We therefore call for urgency in such a situation to allow the expected improvements to the legislation to enter into force as soon as possible, if Parliament agrees, of course, so that it is possible to base the investigations and prosecutions on those changes in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u134	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u135	The Government also requested urgent treatment under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law on the merger of the Fund for Accidents at Work and the Fund for Occupational Diseases (No. 1958/1). The government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill to merge the Workers' Compensation Fund and the Occupational Diseases Fund (No. 1958/1) was introduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u136	Mr President, I would ask the Court to apply the urgency procedure for dealing with the draft law on the merger of the Fund for Accidents at Work and the Fund for Occupational Diseases. The urgency is justified by the Council of State and also by the Committee 20. It's a priority file. The social partners have called for it because the legal basis is absolutely necessary for the establishment of this procedure. They ask us to start negotiations on staff and to provide the legal basis first.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u137	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u138	The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u139	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u140	This is the result of the secret vote on naturalizations. (1860/2) This is the result of the naturalization vote. (1860/2) Aantal stemmen [[120]] Number of voters Valid votes 118 Votes valables Perfect majority 60 Absolute majority All naturalisations have achieved the absolute majority. The proposal of naturalisation laws will be voted on shortly. All naturalizations obtained an absolute majority. The vote on the proposed naturalization laws will take place in a moment. The proposal of the Committee on Naturalizations consists of three parts (A, B and C) each containing several articles to be adopted. The Naturalisations Commission's proposal is divided into three parts (A, B and C) each containing several articles to be adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u141	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part A) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part A) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u142	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part B) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part B) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u143	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part C) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part C) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u144	This inquiry was developed in public meeting of the Committee on the Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, Middle Classes and Agriculture on 28 June 2016 This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for Business, Science Policy, Education, the National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, the Middle Classes and Agriculture of 28 June 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 155/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Karine Lalieux; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Rita Gantois. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 155/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Karine Lalieux; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Rita Gantois. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u145	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u146	Mr. Chairman, I didn't think I would answer, but I was questioned. I won't be long. I would like to say very clearly and unambiguously to the opposition colleagues that this government is succeeding in the cultural policy that you have failed to pursue. The former minister's name is Mr. Magnette! It was he who failed in the implementation of his plan! Then Mr. Courard stopped the plan! I can give you all the figures from the budget that Mrs Sleurs is busy getting to make this policy work. The failure of cultural policy in Brussels is you!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u147	Mr Miller, a formula sums up your speech: "cooked, but happy".
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u148	Mrs Onkelinx, this formula does not correspond at all to reality. [[Brouhahaha]] It's by the darter that Mrs. Onkelinx can make anyone believe anything. I will only remind colleagues of two dates. Who was Minister of Science Policy and Royal Museums from 2011 to 2012? Paul Magnette! Who was it from 2012 to 2014? Philippe Courard! Two socialists, and that is your failure!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u149	Colleagues, I invite you to return to your calm.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u150	Mr President, I do not know if this will help, but I would like to make it clear to Mr Miller that cinema has become a Community competence. [[Hilarity]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u151	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u152	Yes 79 Yes No. 53 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u153	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Defence Committee of 29 June 2016. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the National Defence Commission on June 29, 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 158/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Dirk Van der Maelen; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Peter Buysrogge. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 158/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Dirk Van der Maelen; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Peter Buysrogge. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u154	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister and the majority of the government want to believe that there is only one option to replace the F-16, namely the purchase of new aircraft. About a month and a half ago, the Minister of Defence stated here in the Chamber, in his answer to a question, that an extension of the lifetime of the Belgian F-16 Through my interpellation I have made it clear that the lifetime extension of the F-16 dynamometers, block A and B, is possible. It's enough to look at Lockheed Martin's website. The motion I tabled has a double purpose. Firstly, I ask the Minister to turn to Lockheed Martin to request the studies and deliver them to the Chamber. Secondly, I would ask that, in addition to the option of purchasing new aircraft, the much cheaper option of extending the life of the F-16 aircraft would be examined. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that this option guarantees us that we will have combat aircraft until 2040 or 2045 at a cost of about a third or a maximum of 40% of the option that seems to favour the majority, namely the purchase of the most expensive aircraft in the world, the F-35 aircraft.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u155	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Everyone has -Does he vote and check his vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 79 Yes No. 54 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 134 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u156	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 91 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 43 Abstensions Total 134 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1886/4) Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Common Following this, the Chamber adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1886/4) Reason for abstention? (No) Reason for abstinence? Mr. Frédéric abstained.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u157	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1534/6) Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1534/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u158	As requested by Mr Cheron, we are voting on every element of the motion for a resolution. Vote on recitals A to E. ( 1565/3) Vote on recitals A to E. (1565/3) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 82 Yes No. [[41]] No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 134 Total Accordingly, recitals A to E are adopted. Consequently, recitals A to E have been adopted. Reason for abstention? (No) Reason for abstinence? Vote on point 1 of the motion for a resolution. ( 1565/3) Vote on point 1 of the motion for a resolution. (1565/3) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 112 Yes No. [[20]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total Accordingly, point 1 was adopted. Consequently, point 1 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u159	Vote on point 2 of the motion for a resolution. ( 1565/3) Vote on point 2 of the motion for a resolution. (1565/3) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u160	Accordingly, point 2 was adopted. Point 2 has therefore been adopted. Vote on point 3 of the motion for a resolution. ( 1565/3) Vote on point 3 of the motion for a resolution. (1565/3) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 91 Yes No. [[20]] No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 133 Total Accordingly, point 3 was adopted. Consequently, point 3 was adopted. Reason for abstention? (No) Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u161	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu voted in favour. Vote on point 4 of the motion for a resolution. ( 1565/3) Vote on point 4 of the motion for a resolution. (1565/3) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 83 Yes No. [[41]] No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 134 Total Accordingly, point 4 was adopted. Consequently, point 4 was adopted. Reason for abstention? (No) Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u162	Vote on point 5 of the motion for a resolution. ( 1565/3) Vote on point 5 of the motion for a resolution. (1565/3) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 83 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total Accordingly, point 5 was adopted. Consequently, point 5 was adopted. Vote on point 6 of the motion for a resolution. ( 1565/3) Vote on point 6 of the motion for a resolution. (1565/3) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 90 Yes No. [[41]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total Accordingly, point 6 was adopted. Consequently, point 6 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u163	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 83 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1565/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1565/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u164	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 129 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1893/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1893/04) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Mrs de Coster-Bauchau voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u165	Vote on Amendment No 13 by Barbara Beware of Article 5. (1938/5) Vote on Amendment No. 13 by Barbara Not to Article 5. (1938/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Yes No. 128 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mrs Grovonius voted against. We take note of that. Vote on Amendment No 14 by Marco Van Hees on Article 5. (1938/5) Vote on Amendment No 14 by Marco Van Hees to Article 5. (1938/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[45]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u166	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 131 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total The Court therefore accepts the proposal. (1938/6) Accordingly, the House adopted the proposal. (1938/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u167	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 129 Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part A). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part A). It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u168	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? (vote 16) Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part B). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part B). It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u169	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? (vote 16) Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part C). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part C). It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u170	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u171	I propose that the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on Optima be set up. I propose that you proceed with the composition of the Optima Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry. The committee shall consist of 17 effective members appointed by the Chamber of Representatives among its members, according to the rule of proportional representation of the political groups. The Commission shall consist of 17 effective members appointed by the House of Representatives from among its members in accordance with the rule of proportional representation of political groups. An alternate shall be appointed by political group. He shall be appointed one alternate member per political group. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure, the distribution of this committee is as follows: I would point out that, in accordance with Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure, the allocation of this committee is as follows: N-VA: 4 PS: 3 MR: 3 CD&V: 2 Open Vld: 2 sp.a: 1 Ecolo-Green: 1 cdH: 1 The chairmen of the political groups have sent me the applications of the members of their political groups who will be part of this committee. The presidents of the political groups have sent me the nominations of the members of their group who will make up this committee. N-VA
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u172	Peter Dedecker, Zuhal Demir, Johan Klaps, Bert Wollants
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u173	Robert Van de Velde PS
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u174	Eric Massin, Ahmed Laaouej, Frédéric Daerden
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u175	Fabienne Winckel MR
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u176	Benoît Piedboeuf, Gautier Calomne, David Clarinval
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u177	Vincent Scourneau CD&V
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u178	Eric van Rompuy, Veli Yüksel
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u179	Sarah Claerhout Open Vld
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u180	Luk Van Biesen, Ine Somers
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u181	Dirk Janssens sp.a.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u182	Peter Vanvelthoven
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u183	Dirk Van der Maelen Ecolo-Green
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u184	Meyrem Almaci
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u185	Georges Gilkinet cdH
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u186	Benoît Dispa
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u187	Michel de Lamotte Since the number of admissible candidates corresponds to the number of seats to be taken to the political groups which have nominated candidates, it is not necessary to vote in accordance with Rule 157 (6) of the Rules of Procedure. Since the number of eligible candidates corresponds to the number of places to be given to political groups that have nominated candidates, there is no vote in accordance with Rule 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure. I hereby declare elected candidates who have been nominated. Accordingly, I declare the candidates nominated elected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-07-54-plenair-ip119x.u188	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 14 July 2016. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 14 July 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 14 July 2016, at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 14 July 2016 at 2.15 p.m.
