ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u1	Mr President, Madam Minister, at the end of January, in a speech at the Energy Forum organised by Febeliec, the Federation of Industrial Energy Consumers, you said: "The costs of energy and the too large carry-overs of certain 'overloads' have the effect of observing the accounts of several of our companies, especially those where the cost of energy represents a substantial part of their costs. Aware of this problem, I have instructed my team to propose solutions that will significantly reduce these postponements, without overburdening the boat of private consumers. The proposals that have been put forward are likely to help our companies which are often subject to international competition. I want us to close this issue quickly." Minister, what are your plans to reduce the energy bill for businesses? When will they be implemented? Can you assure me that residential consumers will not face a further increase in their electricity and gas bills following a postponement of the current overloads borne by professional consumers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u2	Mrs Lalieux, I congratulate you for speaking briefly, in the time allotted by the Rules of Procedure. Minister, I give you the floor for an equally concise and comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u3	Mr President, I will try to be synthetic. Mrs Lalieux, with regard to overloads on electricity and gas bills, it is worth recalling that some of them come from the federal authorities and others from the regional authorities. For the federal government, in the case of electricity, there is an offshore overload on the transportation tariff, a strategic reserve over the transportation tariff, an energy levy, a federal electricity levy and VAT. And for gas, there is the energy levy, the federal gas levy and VAT. Energy and VAT contributions are indirect taxes which depend essentially on the FPS Finance and which contribute directly to the State budget. The only remaining room for manoeuvre is in terms of federal electricity and gas contributions and freight surcharges. Both federal electricity and gas contributions are subject to exemptions, annual capping for large industrial consumers and degressivity by consumption band for professional consumers. As a reminder, natural gas-fired power plants are completely exempted and gas-fired cogenerations are partially exempted in proportion to the electricity injected into the grid. Every effort has been made to keep the level of federal contributions as low as possible. It should be noted that the revenues from these contributions fund funds for CPAS, for the reimbursement of social rates, for the operation of the federal regulator. Some of these posts have been reduced. Offshore overload is also subject to annual capping and degressivity per consumption band. Any adjustments are made via the ceiling and/or degressivity bands. Any ceiling or degression ultimately leads, as you know, to an increase in the overload for the residential consumer. Offshore overload increases year by year in proportion to the amount of electricity generated from wind farms in the North Sea and as they are introduced into production. In the new offshore financial support system for future parks, based on the LCOE of the energy produced, attempts were made to keep the level as close as possible to the current level of support. You all have questions about this later. The strategic reserve was set up to cope with peaks in winter consumption. The simultaneous activation of hundreds of thousands of devices across the country generates a peak whose coverage was difficult without the creation of a specific reserve. The reboot of Doel 3 and Tihange 2 as well as the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 make it unnecessary for the time being. But the strategic reserve has been kept at a relatively low level in view of this return of several large production units, which, therefore, results in a relatively low level of this overload which, even if translated flat by meter, would only amount to about EUR 1.24 per month. However, it should be remembered that electricity prices, i.e. the price of the molecule on international markets, are currently low, if not very low, and that this trend is expected to continue for a long time to come. Some suppliers offer fixed prices over a three- or four-year horizon, which is significant. The return to the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 power stations and the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 have led, in an already declining environment, to a rather marked increase in this downward trend, due to the increase in supply in the face of low demand. Government action therefore has a more than favourable effect on prices.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u4	Mr President, Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I have understood everything you have said, with regard to the reduction of prices, contributions, etc. But on the occasion of your speech, at the Energy Forum, you indicated that you are encharging your team to make complementary proposals in order to significantly reduce the postponements you spoke about. The latter are actually down at present because the price of electricity is taken into account. In conclusion to your answer, Minister, you did not report any new proposals. I am thinking in particular of the question of the energy standard that we have heard of. In this respect, there will be no proposals other than those relating to contributions and charges which increase or decrease depending on electricity prices or strategic reserves. At the Energy Forum, you said that you would come with new proposals, which is not the case with your response.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u5	You are right, there is no new proposal at this stage. You have seen that other levels of power are involved. So we're talking to regional colleagues. We realize that all layers added to the price of convenience should be the subject of a global reflection. I don't know if I'm going to make it during this legislature, because it's extremely difficult. At the same time, in all the executive branches, we are asked to make substantial savings. This implies, if we are very successful, an increase in revenue and a decrease in expenditure. But an increase in revenue can also be achieved through taxation. Obviously, all these degressions have a cost. That is what this means.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u6	I understand that there is no new proposal on the table today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u7	Minister, the Energy Mediation Service is funded by mediation fees paid by energy companies, suppliers and distribution system operators. These fees are the sole source of revenue for mediators. The Royal Decree of 18 September 2015 establishes that the mediation fee paid by electricity and gas companies is calculated on the basis of two factors: the average number of customers in the past year and the number of complaints lodged in the past year of operation. In your policy note dated 2015, you indicated that in 2016, "a more comprehensive reflection on the financing of the mediation fee will be initiated. (...) The government has decided to carry out an assessment of the current distribution keys to get as close as possible to the actual complaints. The Minister of Energy will also propose a form of control of the Energy Mediation Service in order to be able to objective the figures of the latter's budget". I'm quoting you. Minister, what are your plans to amend the Mediation Service funding mechanism, if any, and what form of control do you propose to introduce?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u8	Member, the evaluation of the current allocation keys is underway within the Energy FPS. A proposal for a legislative amendment to introduce budgetary control over the Energy Mediation Service for the 2017 budget year will be tabled. I'm waiting for the work of the SPF to be completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u9	So I imagine that you will come with the evaluation and the new proposals for the Mediation Service as part of the discussions on the general policy for the 2017 budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u10	You've already asked the question several times. I hope to move forward with this timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u11	Yes, but you had already talked about 2016, which is why I'm asking you again. I'm trying to respect what you're saying.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u12	It doesn't evolve as quickly as we want!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u13	Mr President, Minister, the Gas Station Soil Clean-up Fund, known as BOFAS, was established in 2002 and expanded through a cooperation agreement in 2007. It is a very effective tool that allows many owners or managers of former gas stations to clean up the soil. He gave great satisfaction to all those who made use of it. Minister, since the call for applications was issued several years ago, a large number of locations have been cleared, but today it remains a series of service stations that are not. Would it not be possible to relaunch a call for clean-up to enable a whole range of people who were ill-informed or could not avail themselves of this service to benefit from the assistance and expertise of the BOFAS Fund? I repeat, this fund is very useful for the people concerned and it is likely to contain some more money.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u14	Mr President, honourable Member, the cooperation agreement of 13 December 2002, which is still in force, provided for a 10-year period of operation of the BOFAS Remediation Fund, with a possible extension for a period of five years. The BOFAS Fund intervenes only at the level of public service stations. It was decided to extend the Fund's activities for this five-year period, as amended by the Cooperation Agreement of 9 February 2007 published in the Monitor on 20 September 2007. This agreement allows the Fund to clean up an additional number of polluted sites. The BOFAS Fund received a total of 5,029 applications for assistance, of which 3,804 were declared admissible. According to Article 8 of the Cooperation Agreement, applicants could apply to the Fund for assistance until 20 March 2008, a further six months after the entry into force. This time limit has been prescribed with no more than a lapse of time. In order to obtain a possibility of a new call for clean-up and to follow your suggestion, a further amendment to the cooperation agreement would therefore be necessary. We are precisely discussing this cooperation agreement. Either we've thought about it or you'll make me think about it as a result of your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u15	Madam Minister, thank you. To make this clear, it is indeed a new call for projects that were not selected in 2008 to be retained. If you are negotiating the cooperation agreement, I think that this might be the right time to suggest this idea to the regions, which probably should not be a problem, at least I hope. This would, in any case, make it possible to clean up a large number of sites, which is good for our country's economy and environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u16	Madam Minister, I will therefore ask you about the exit of nuclear power, as the President invites me to do. At our committee on 3 May, I asked you again about the status of the national programme for the management of spent fuel and nuclear waste. You told me that this dossier, which was transmitted to Europe in August 2015, was still blocked in intercabinets. In my reply I asked you to explain to me the dimensions that posed a problem to your majority partners. You took advantage of the fact that this was a reply not to answer and invite me to put a new question, which I am doing. Minister, what are the specific dimensions and points that are problematic for your majority partners, when you yourself say that this program is merely a description of the situation, without new normative content? Do I have to remind you that in October 2015 you guaranteed me that this program would be available by December 2015 at the latest? And then, more broadly, how do we interpret the political and legal situation of a document transmitted to Europe in August 2015 but not yet approved within the government when I tabled this question? Have you informed the services of the European Commission of this particular situation? How do they view this document, as it has not been the subject of any government agreement? Finally, I would like to know when this document will be published and what you are actually doing to achieve it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u17	Mr President, this is the third time that I have been given the opportunity to answer this question and rightly so, since you want to see one of the obligations contained in the Euratom 2011 directive implemented. And you're not the only one! In any case, three different elements arise from this directive. I'll call them back. First, the national programme, which describes the situation in waste management, is a kind of scoreboard of what exists, what has been achieved and what is lacking to date. The national programme shall be amended in the light of developments. Secondly, the national report is a simple transposition report. What legislation has this article of the directive been transposed into? Thirdly, national policies, the most important and forward-looking, are decisions taken or to be taken on waste management. Rather, this answers the question that Mrs Lalieux will ask me earlier on the problem of waste treatment. As provided for in the Act of 3 June 2014, which completed the transposition into national law of the Euratom Directive of 19 July 2011, the Committee of the National Spent Fuel Management Programme, responsible for its establishment, forwarded to Mr Peeters and myself a proposal for a national programme, after consulting the SEA opinion committee, which concluded that this first edition of the national programme should not be the subject of a strategic environmental assessment. This proposal was forwarded for information to the European Commission in August 2015. It is only after having been deliberated in the Council of Ministers and fixed by ministerial decree that the first edition of the Belgian national programme will be officially transmitted. She's still in the same condition. The text will be discussed this week at the last IKW. The IKW have a series of tasks to do, not just the national waste programme. This week, a final IKW will take place on the issue of the national waste programme. For the moment, it is still almost the same version as we have sent to the European Commission. I therefore hope that this ministerial order will be debated next week in the Council of Ministers, since it is the last IKW. This programme will be made available on the website of the Energy DG of the FPS Economy as soon as it is approved by the Council of Ministers. There will then be a website specific to the national waste programme.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u18	So, Madam Minister, Belgium, with your signature, sent a draft document to Europe to try to be in time, since it was in August 2015 that it was necessary to have tabled it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u19	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u20	You will be roughly one year late, if all goes well, for the transposition, translation and application of a directive that dates back a long time. Considering that a document that was sent to Europe because it was due to be sent before the end of August 2015, while still in intercabinet is in itself really problematic. Yes, you're surprised and you're aware that I've asked you three times about the subject! Indeed, it is three times since August, when you should have already filed the plan. And I won't stop there because it's still not done. Nevertheless, I deeply regret that you have not been able to keep up with the tempo and that you have still not officially sent the document to the European Commission, while the delay for this obligation is almost a year and for a subject on which you declare that the texts remain unchanged and that this programme, in itself, is not revolutionary. One can imagine how long it will take if one day you make changes!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u21	Mr President, Madam Minister, on May 5, the press informed us that some, not all, collaborators left your office. Could you give us an exhaustive list of the departures from your firm since its inception and give us the reasons for them? The versions seem to diverge for some of them. Some sources speak of a disagreement on the nuclear issue, others say that you have dismissed them or even that the Prime Minister has had to intervene to put order in what was a real conflict of interest for at least one of them. Do you confirm that you had contact with the Prime Minister about the publication of an article on 21 April highlighting the potential conflict of interest of one of your collaborators at the time? More broadly, how do you explain these departures when the legislature is still far from over and so few cases have been completed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u22	Mr President, honourable Member, with regard to the departures to the cabinet, I would like to point out that they are due to opportunities which have presented themselves to several advisers in the private sector or in the administration. For example, I have a new collaborator who has been trained as a lawyer and comes from the administration. There are departures firm versus administration and departures administration versus cabinet. I continue to examine what replacements should be carried out. I would also like to point out that such departures are far from unusual in a firm. I am not learning anything from the former Walloon Minister of the Environment who probably did not work with the same collaborators throughout the previous legislature. My curiosity prompted me to go see the ins and outs in your cabinet as Minister of Energy. I was able to see that there too, at times, people were leaving for other heavens. Why? I don't know. And I suppose the opposition of the time, very mean, obviously asked you the question!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u23	Minister, start by asking yourself! I've never been Minister of the Environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u24	It's possible, but you were the minister of energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u25	That's your answer. First of all, I invite you to go to the exact definition of the duties and duties of each other before trying not to answer the relevant questions asked, in particular, about the Prime Minister's intervention. What I can tell you is that the Minister of the Environment, my colleague Philippe Henry, has never been the subject of any intervention by the Prime Minister or the head of government to change anything in his cabinet. I would have liked to have your answer to these elements rather than an attempt to counter-attack inappropriately.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u26	I answered!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u27	I take note of the question, the answer and the reply. They will be included in the full report of our committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u28	Madam Minister, I have already asked a number of questions on this subject, so this is a follow-up question to my question No. 204 of 3 December 2015. At that time, you reported that Synergrid, the federation of grid operators electricity and natural gas in Belgium, in collaboration with the Royal Association of Belgian Gas Traders or KVBG, submitted a proposal to its members in December 2015 containing guidelines on the global methodology for the conversion of the installations supplied with low-pressure L-gas. Synergrid members agreed on the guidelines and the KVBG would draw up a basic document on this subject which should be ready by the end of January 2016 and submitted to Synergrid. Madam Minister, we are now June and I have a number of questions. What is the state of play regarding the format of the basic document? When will the various bodies concerned be consulted? As far as financing is concerned, you replied earlier that all funding mechanisms are possible. In March 2015, a reflection was ongoing with all stakeholders, with a view to identifying the best option. You replied that, as the basic document containing the guidelines on the methodology of conversion was being prepared, it was premature to make any comments on this. Is the state of play of the basic document already providing sufficient information to clarify the possible financing mechanisms? If so, which ones are they?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u29	I forgot to mention at the outset that Mr de Lamotte has an attached question on the conversion of low calorific gas to high calorific gas.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u30	Mr President, Madam Minister, the general policy note states that: "The Minister of Energy will be working during 2016 on the implementation of the planning, methodology and method of financing of the gas conversion L - gas H. The Regions will be involved in this process. The definition of the conversion methodology will make it possible to accurately assess the costs of the conversion. To this end, a national fund will be established to provide funding for the conversion of low-calorific natural gas to high-calorific gas. The government will define funding and timing in an optimal manner." Minister, it's mid-2016, could you take stock of progress? How much do you estimate conversion costs? In 2008, the figure of EUR 700 million was mentioned. Is it still that amount that is on the table or has it been reduced? What is the key to the distribution among the Regions of the number of domestic appliances to be converted? Do you confirm that this conversion mainly concerns the Flemish Region and the Brussels Region? You mention the existence of a national fund for the financing of conversion. Should it be concluded that the decision has already been made by the federal government that funding will only be federal and that the Regions will not contribute to it? Or will the Regions contribute according to a distribution key? If so, which will it be chosen for this distribution among the Regions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with a consolidated answer because you are asking the same question together. I'll give it in Dutch for Mrs. Dierick. Synergrid has developed an indicative planning for the full transition from the L-gas market, planning a phased transition from the market over the period from 2017 to the end of 2029. For the first time, the planning was submitted to the subgroup ENOVER High-Low Gas on 30 June 2015 and a second time on 25 January 2016 with the aim of collecting any comments and comments. Considering the comments made by the participants of the second meeting, in particular the administrative authorities, regional government offices and energy regulators, at both federal and regional level, it appears that no formal objection was expressed to the principle of implementing the indicative planning as proposed by Synergrid. Synergrid is currently preparing an information session on the indicative changeover planning for the supplier, charterers and representatives of the associations of cities and municipalities. It is expected that this meeting will take place at the beginning of July. Let me turn to Mr de Lamotte's questions. Synergrid estimates the cost of conversion at around EUR 550 million on the basis of a series of assumptions, including, for example, an estimate of the number of devices to be converted by type of technology. The appropriateness of these assumptions will have to be confirmed or, where appropriate, reviewed in the first conversion operations. With regard to questions relating to the number of domestic appliances to be converted, we do not have accurate data. On the other hand, with regard to the number of connections or customers to be converted, each customer can own one or more gas appliances, Synergrid has fairly accurate data. In a schematic way, it can be considered that all connections in the Brussels-Capital Region are to be converted, about one in two connections in the Flemish Region and about one in six connections in the Walloon Region. With regard to the funding mechanism, I have asked my administration to carry out a legal analysis of the existing possibilities within the framework of the division of institutional powers, as this conversion project concerns both federal and regional jurisdictions. As soon as this analysis has been agreed between my firm and the administration, I will propose a solution to this funding mechanism to my colleagues in the government. I am therefore not yet in a position to give you a precise answer today. I hope that will be the case at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u32	Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer. I am pleased to hear that steps have already been taken and that progress has been made. This will be done quickly, and a lot of adjustments will have to be made. If I understand correctly, there will be work from 2017 to 2029, so as of next year. That is quite fast, because we are already halfway in 2016. So we need to be clear about who needs to do what and, above all, about funding, because it is still a bit of a wait to see what it is going to be in that area. I hope that you will be able to clarify this very quickly, because the sector is a questioning party, so that people know what to start with. I'll be sure to follow the file closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u33	Minister, thank you for the figures and the proposals. I look forward to a further response on the division between the Federal and the Regions. If there are any devices or customers to convert – all in Brussels, one in two in Flanders and one in six in Wallonia – I would have liked to know whether the Regions will contribute. You did not mention this aspect in your answer. We're in mid-2016. If work is to start in 2017, it is urgent to plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u34	Mr President, Madam Minister, a decision on civil liability in the field of nuclear energy was taken at the Council of Ministers on 22 April last. For example, it would be decided to appoint a legal adviser to assist the Belgian State in granting a State guarantee to nuclear operators and carriers. Since January 2016, an important protocol linked to the Treaty of July 1960 has entered into force through a Belgian legislative amendment. This protocol requires the operators of our nuclear power stations to ensure more potential damage and for a longer period of time. This decision was enshrined in the Law of 22 July 1985. If operators would not be able to secure themselves on the private market, the law provides for the possibility for the operator to apply for a State guarantee. With this, Madam Minister, this government is undermining the level playing field for various energy production technologies, as you know, since no other technology can claim such a state guarantee. Firstly, can you explain the decision taken at the Council of Ministers of 24 April on civil liability? Secondly, for which nuclear operations and installations has the operator so far applied for a State guarantee? Thirdly, when, at the latest, according to the existing legal framework, should the Minister of Economy decide to provide a state guarantee? What happens if that deadline is not respected? Finally, can we state the state of play in the current application procedures?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u35	Mr President, honourable Member, I only have the answer in its French version. If I may, I shall speak in French. The decision of the Council of Ministers dates from 22 April, not 24 April, as you said, which is not serious in itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u36	I started with the words: 'at the Council of Ministers on 22 April (...)'.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u37	I saw the date of the 24th. Don't worry! However, the decision of the Council of Ministers is intended to address the problems encountered, following the premature entry into force on 1 January 2016, of the Act of 29 June 2014 amending the Act of 22 July 1985 on civil liability in the field of nuclear energy. Stakeholders, insurers, operators and carriers – you know that there are not only operators that are often referred to, but that there are also other operators and carriers (IRE, SCK-CEN and irradiated material carriers) – expected the coming into force to be delayed. However, the bill to that effect could not be passed in due course. You may recall the reason why the postponement of the entry into force could not finally be voted on until December 31, 2015. Stakeholders have therefore been facing insurability problems since 1 January 2016 and have also been in an unfavourable position vis-à-vis their foreign competitors, be it electricity generation or research or transport radioisotopes. In the spirit of the legislator, the law of 29 June 2014 was to enter into force only on the day when all parties to the Paris Convention on Civil Liability in the Field of Nuclear Energy, which are also EU Member States, were prepared to deposit, at the same time, their instruments of ratification of the amending protocol of 12 February 2004. This simultaneousity is required by Commission Decision 2004/294 of 8 March 2004 in the Official Journal of the European Communities of 8 March 2004. The Council of the European Union had had to authorise the Member States which are Contracting Parties to the Paris Convention to ratify, in the interest of the European Community, the abovementioned Protocol. Such authorization was required, in view of the fact that the European Community had exclusive competence with regard to the amendment of Article 13 of the Paris Convention. It could therefore be imposed on the various European Member States party to the Convention, which affects the rules laid down by Council Regulation No 44/2001 of 22 December 2000 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. However, Italy and the United Kingdom are still not ready to deposit their instruments of ratification by 1 January 2016, the final date for the entry into force of the Act of 29 June 2014 on the basis of the prospects of the parties given in 2013. We are not at the same time as them, but in advance. The premature entry into force of the amending law of 2014 exacerbates certain problems of insurability of certain new items of covered damage, i.e. the damage to the environment and the prescription for the reparation of personal injury that goes from 10 to 30 years. Article 10/1 of the Act of 22 July 1985 (basic law) contains a provision allowing the State to offer a supplementary guarantee for remuneration. This means that the State guarantee has existed in our law since 1985. The implementation of this State guarantee requires a lengthy procedure. The aim is, in particular, to establish by adequate justification and pricing that this mechanism cannot be described as State aid prohibited by the Treaty of the European Union. It is in this context that my colleague the Minister of Finance, at the request of the Council of Ministers and by decision of the same Council of 20 May 2016, requested to join the services of an external legal adviser in order to be able to study and establish this framework. You're asking me a question about the level playing field. It should be noted that, in this regard, operators of nuclear facilities are already subject to very high insurance obligations of their own and that their liability for insurability is objective. This is the legal framework in which we have been in since 1985 and it has not changed since the 2014 law. The victim of nuclear damage must only establish the causal relationship between a nuclear accident and the damage suffered and it is exempt from establishing a fault in the operator's head – this is called the principle of objective liability. On these two points, the liability regime for operators of nuclear installations is heavier than that of other electricity producers. Your second question falls within the competence of my colleague the Minister of Economy, Mr Kris Peeters. The ministerial decrees of 25 March 2016, by which my colleague declared... I am sorry, I see that it is 25 April, not 25 March. It's implausible, we're going to talk a lot about it; it's fun! The applications of the nuclear operators were published by extract of the Belgian Monitor of 5 April 2016; therefore, this is correct. These are the operators SA Belgonuclear, SA Belgoprocess, SA ENGIE Electrabel, SA FBFC International, the Institute of Radioelements, MRIM, ONDRAF, SCK-CEN, SA de Transports Spéciales Industriels, SA Transnubel and SA Transrad. For your third question, in the current state of the legislation, and taking into account the aforementioned ministerial orders which extended until 31 December 2016 the deadline given to operators to obtain full coverage, the State guarantee is expected to become effective on 1 January 2017. Therefore, the work to be done for the Minister of Finance, assisted in the framework of the contract he has launched from the external legal expert, for the framework, should be finalized by that date. In order to maintain recognition and thus the right to operate their facilities, operators must establish that their civil liability is assured or guaranteed, in accordance with the Act of 22 July 1985 on civil liability in the field of nuclear energy. The Government will assess in a timely manner the additional measures to be taken to ensure the protection of victims of a possible nuclear accident and to provide operators with the legal certainty they are entitled to expect from the State if it is to be found that the objective of 1 January 2017 cannot be achieved. Let me turn to your fourth question. As indicated in point 2, the Minister of Economy has received requests from the operators and carriers I have cited for the granting of a State guarantee and has declared these applications admissible. It is now under the responsibility of the Minister of Finance to work towards the effective implementation of these guarantees. The general administration of the Treasury, the Debt Agency, has been responsible for this task and has launched the public procurement for the appointment of this legal adviser, which will assist this administration and the Minister in the steps and negotiations to be carried out with insurers, operators, nuclear carriers and the European Commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u38	Madam Secretary, thank you for your detailed reply. You won't blame me for having to read it all over again. Nevertheless, I have three comments to make. Firstly, you answer that the nuclear operators already have very serious insurance obligations. However, the risk derivatives are also much heavier than for the other electricity products. That seems to me to be completely proportionate. Secondly, why the state guarantee is in any case detrimental to the other technologies seems obvious to me. There's no confession for that. Thirdly, I must point out that countries such as Germany give unlimited liability to their nuclear operators. We still don't do that here. As you know, I have put forward a proposal on this subject. We will discuss it one of the next few weeks, and I hope you will also pay attention to it. After all, we are a country that does not give unlimited liability and assumes a whole part of its liability. However, in other countries, such as Germany and three or four other countries, there is unlimited liability for nuclear operators.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u39	Madam Minister, in order to achieve the Belgian climate objectives, the federal government committed itself to producing 0.718 million tonnes of oil equivalent renewable energy by 2020 through the inter-Western climate agreement on national burden-sharing. The creation of 2 200 megawatts of renewable electricity production in the North Sea would be crucial for this. Today 712 megawatts are already operational and two business cases are now waiting for a financial close to move to effective investment. This concerns Interestel and Norther. However, due to the lack of a legal framework allowing for a necessary adjustment of the Royal Decree of 16 July 2002, a new support regime cannot enter into force. I made up my question before the government decided on it last week. There's obviously a problem with timing. The new aid mechanism was notified to the European Commission, but it is awaiting a decision by DG Competition. As long as it is not there, the legal framework cannot apply, the CREG cannot decide on the level of the aid and the financial close cannot happen. In our view, the file is very badly managed. In addition, we are getting signals that, despite the November 2015 agreement in the government, there has been a debate on the level of support. It concerns in particular the impact of the so-called negative hours on the profitability of offshore windmills. The oversupply of electricity in our market increases the number of hours at which negative prices are achieved. This undermines the return on investment. The investors withdraw because they are not profitable. No one is advocating over-subsidisation, Madam Minister, but the level of subsidies must be sufficient to ensure that investment takes place effectively. In other words, support should always cover the uneconomic summit. Last Friday, the government reached a compromise on support for offshore wind farms. At first glance, we think it is a defensive agreement. The investors agree to build the windmills with less support, but the problem remains that the law that opens up the RB to the changes is not yet in place. The CREG will have to record the cases on the basis of the current KB, i.e. with the higher support amounts. That must be done fairly quickly, given the timing of the financial close. The question is, therefore, how can you, as a minister, guarantee that the agreed amounts of support will actually be granted, since the law determining the amounts has not yet been adopted? When do you expect a ruling from the European Commission on the current state aid notification procedure? When should the CREG verify at the latest the amount of the aid granted? When will you submit the necessary legislative amendment for the installation of a new support mechanism to Parliament? When will you actually put the new support mechanism into effect? If the reform of the aid mechanism is delayed, would you consider implementing the financial close to Interest and Norther under the existing support mechanism? What do you think is the impact of the so-called negative hours on the profitability of offshore windmills?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u40	Mr President, Minister, like Mrs Temmerman's question, my question is now somewhat dated, but that does not alter the fact that a number of elements remain important. I think everyone knows that oversubsidisation in support of renewable energy is undesirable. However, an investment climate must be guaranteed. That great challenge lies ahead of the projects we are discussing. In a study by the CREG in the past, it was pointed out that there are still some possibilities here and there. In the meantime, the government has shown that there are still benefits for consumers. We have also heard that the European Investment Bank, due to some uncertainties that remain until recently, had doubts about the possibility of providing the necessary funds for the two offshore parks which have now been announced. In my view, it is important that this is clarified and that we can also assess to what extent that uncertainty still exists in the European Investment Bank. Madam Secretary, that is why I have the following questions. What's the status of that file? Have you had talks with the European Investment Bank? Are the folds smoothed again? What steps are you going to take in that file, what lines of action are you going to take and what adjustments are you going to make?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u41	Mr President, my question, like those of my colleagues, is obviously before last week's agreement. Minister, please admit that on November 20, 2015, you issued a press release announcing that the federal government had made the decision to review the offshore wind farm subsidy. In particular, you said that "the revision creates an economy for the consumer and provides a stable legal framework for investors." I like to quote you. I agree with you that it is absolutely essential to ensure that consumers are billed. But it is also totally incomprehensible that the federal government should communicate a detailed reform in November 2015 and then leave it unanswered for months. We are still in June 2016. It is also incomprehensible that the federal government is committed to developing approximately 2,200 megawatts of offshore wind by 2020, but is then unable to make the necessary decisions in time to deliver on its commitments. You are talking about legal stability and investments, aid and subsidies. Stability is just as necessary, as any legal uncertainty could cause investors to flee. I had a series of questions about the past, which has passed since Friday. You made a decision, after eight months of uncertainty and confusion. Your own majority has asked questions in this regard. For eight months, the government was unable to take responsibility for this issue. Minister, how are the decisions of the Council of Ministers of 9 June 2016 different from those of 20 November 2015? What will be the annual savings for an average household? Do you confirm the savings of 80 cents per year for an average family? That's what we saw. But on the MR website, we are talking about a savings of 50 euros, we don't know how.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u42	What does that mean?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u43	80 cents a year! The economy linked to your new way of subsidising offshore wind would represent a savings of 80 cents per year. What about an information I found on Twitter, where the MR reports that it is 50 euros a year? Where is the reality in this information? If you're not the party, I guess the party is well informed. What about those 50 euros? Or it's disinformation! That's what I'm asking you. Have the Norther and Rentel companies confirmed to you that your reform allows you to proceed with their financial closing? When will the bill be tabled in Parliament? Do you need to relaunch the procedure for potential notification of State aid to the European Commission? Will you make the entry into force of draft laws conditional on the decision of the European Commission? Major discussions are taking place on this type of issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u44	What can we buy for 80 cents? Not much!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u45	I imagine Mrs Marghem will validate the information. Regarding the invoice, the MR website shows savings of the order of 55 euros. I don't know if it's about a 20-year, one-year, two-month bill. That's not very specific. Anyway, you're quoted. [[Hilarity]] Mr. Clarinval, I have read your literature on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u46	Mrs Dierick, you will have the floor for your three questions, a possible update or a summary of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u47	Mr President, Minister, I have indeed tabled three questions on offshore parks, each on a different aspect. In the meantime, I have also asked a question about this in plenary, because the subject is of interest to us. I pointed out that it was necessary to clarify quickly and to monitor affordability for consumers and businesses. I will try to put my three questions as briefly as possible. My first question concerns the profitability of offshore parks. You have made statements about this in the media, which were then repeated by the President of Open Vld. I just want to be clear about the numbers. You stated in the press that wind energy parks in the Belgian North Sea give a guaranteed yield of 12%. In the Netherlands, however, this is only 8%. You said that this high rate of return compared to neighbouring countries must be studied. Of course, there are different types of return. For example, there is the return on the invested equity of the investors and the total return on the project. We must therefore be careful not to compare apples with pears, but to compare the same yields. Madam Minister, what is the cost-effectiveness, in terms of investors, of the capital invested in offshore wind farms in our four neighbouring countries and how much is that in Belgium? Is that what the 12 % you mentioned is? Can you also mention the project profitability, which is something completely different from the offshore wind farms in our neighbouring countries? How does it relate to our Belgian wind farms? So I would like to hear the figures for these two forms of profitability. You also want to test the new support mechanism carefully with the European Commission, you said. Have you contacted the European Commission on this? Are you waiting for further approval to decide on the subsidy? My second question concerns the possible European penalty, which was the subject of rumours. As there was no agreement, reports were published in the media that, in the absence of rapid clarity, investors would drop out and that we might not achieve our targets by 2020. If our country fails to meet these renewable energy targets, there would be a threat of a European fine, which could consist of a lump sum and a penalty payment. Madam Minister, is it true that it will no longer be possible to realise the planned wind farms and to get them all operational by 2020? Can you explain the further planning of offshore parks? Which parks will be operational by when? If we fail to achieve this objective, it is possible that Belgium will be fined as a Member State. Since 2006, in most infringement proceedings, the European Commission would ask the Court of Justice to impose both a lump sum and a periodic penalty payment. Can you estimate the amount of the fines for Belgium? How much impact would that fine have on the invoice of our families and our companies? Will our country still have an obligation to achieve the objectives after the fines have been paid? Do you have a visual on that? What efforts will you make to avoid those fines? My third question concerns the new agreement that has been reached since Thursday 9 June 2016. I would have liked to have been more clear about this. We were able to read a lot of about that in the press. The support period would be set at 19 years instead of 20 years. The duration of the concession was extended from 20 to 22 years. There would also be savings of more than EUR 1 billion, of which more than EUR 700 million would be for consumers. Can you explain more about the new support mechanism? This will apply to Interest and Norther. What about the negative hours? I have not found that aspect. Can you explain how you got that EUR 1.1 billion? What impact will this review have on the energy bill of families and companies? You have also announced that this subsidy will only apply to Interestel and Norther and that you will make changes to the subsidy mechanism for the other three parks to be built. When can we expect clarity?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u48	Mr. President, Madam Minister, while last November there seemed to be an agreement within the government and with the promoters who are looking forward to the next two offshore parks – I want proof of this, your press release of 20 November announcing the new offshore support mechanism – when you promised a legislative text for Easter, while the realization of the offshore is essential to achieve our renewable energy goals, the issue has long been on the agenda at the government level, to the point that one of the two parks even threatened to end its project. My colleagues have asked you about the content of this agreement and I join them in this. I'm just adding a complement on process and communication. I still do not understand, Madam Minister, that you compared the 8% return on investment in the Netherlands and the 12% return on equity in Belgium. And above all, this Friday, June 3, on the radio, you announced on the antennas of Bel RTL, when the journalist asked you how much the offshore will cost the consumer in 2020, "that in 2020, if all offshore parks are effective, the cost of this subsidization is of the order of 24 billion". And to add with the aplomb that you are known "that it is necessary to know that for SMEs such as butchers and bakers, this will be an additional cost on the annual electricity bill of more than 10 000 euros". My question is how you got to such figures, whereas according to the note of the energy regulator (the CREG), shared within the government, the total cost of support for offshore wind energy between 2010 (date of commissioning of the first park) and 2040 (date of end of subsidies for the last park) will rather oscillate between 16 and 17 billion euros. How could you announce numbers at this point next to the plate? Where does this 8 billion euro mistake come from? According to this note of the regulator, we are talking about a maximum increase of just over 1 000 euros per year for a rural butcher shop (consumption of 100 MWh) or 2 800 euros per year for a larger butcher shop (250 MWh). So here we are also very far from the "more than 10 000 euros" that you advanced on radio. Here too my question is how you could announce figures at this point next to the plate? Do you confirm what the newspaper L'Echo writes in its June 2 edition, that once again, the Prime Minister had to take your case back? I would like you to clarify the specific role that the Prime Minister has played since the end of May on this issue? Finally, now that Rentel and Norther are fixed, what of the last three parks?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u49	Mr President, I think the framework for this is already specified. The many twists over time have indeed been mentioned regarding this mechanism to support Rentel and Norther parks in the North Sea. Minister, we now have to wait until the bill and the Royal Order are debated in the Council of Ministers. What about the possible or non-procedure of notification to the European Commission? Has the agreement as validated last week been confirmed by the management boards of Rentel and Norther Park? I would also like to mention with you the funding that is being reduced, probably as a result of specific demands, but also because of the increase in research and new technologies. This will indeed have an impact on the consumer's bill. It is a reduction in the increase in the bill that will have to take place in this context. It's not a drop in the bill. It will have to be mentioned and the fact that it took a little time to try to conclude this agreement. What was the Prime Minister's role in this regard? The European Investment Bank had laid down a number of conditions. Are these conditions still relevant? Are there any revisions to these financing conditions on the part of the EIB? Do you confirm that the return to equity will be the same for these two parks? Do you validate the figure of 10.5% as mentioned? Once all this is put in place for Rentel and Norther, there is obviously still support for the last three parks. In the dynamic of investments needed for renewable energy and for our businesses, can you set me more or less a timetable for the approach of these last three parks so that they know when they will be set on their fate?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u50	Since Mr Hedebouw was absent, his question therefore became moot. Minister, we are in a mini-debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u51	Mr President, the first question concerns the annual and total cost of the support scheme by 2020, the cost to the consumer – families and industries – and the impact of the reform adopted on 9 June with regard to support for the offshore. According to CREG estimates, on the basis of current legislation, the total cost of the support scheme for the production of offshore wind turbines for the entire period considered from 2009 for the first fleets installed to 2040 for the last concessions is expected to amount to approximately EUR 16.7 billion. The total cost, together with the connection, was estimated at EUR 18.3 billion. Ms.Lalieux was the first to point out that there was a first step – I guess she doesn't get any glory from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u52	Not at all, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u53	We're not in a competition.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u54	We agree. The decision of the Council of Ministers of 20 November 2015 was the first step in this reasoning. I didn't know that at that time. I had worked on a series of possibilities in intercabinets before presenting them to the Council of Ministers without any comment. Then, while I was drafting the bill and the basic royal order that needs to be amended, some of the coalition parties came forward and felt that it was not enough. So we continued our work by exploring other avenues. Hence the two steps you have seen. The result, and I agree with Mr de Lamotte, is an impact on the savings that will be generated in relation to what they should have been if we had maintained the system developed by Mr Wathelet last but had not notified the European Commission. This is a smaller increase. The decision of the Council of Ministers, followed by the agreement just reached, will allow us to save more than EUR 1.1 billion on the amount, of which almost 600 million is attributable to the June agreement with Rentel and Norther. In summary, 500 million savings will reduce the consumer's bill as a result of the above-mentioned decision. June added another 500 million, followed by a reduction of about 100 million in cable support for one of the parks. We thus arrive at 1.1 billion in two stages. For an average household with an average annual consumption of 3,500 kWh, the tariff surcharge currently amounts to around 15 euros per year for existing parks, i.e. the first three plus Nobelwind that is to be operational in the second half of 2017. This is the old regime, which is not Mr Wathelet's, but the previous one. Mr Wathelet's has come into force but has never been applied since it has been amended, as you certainly know. On the basis of the current legislation, with the entry into service of the Rentel and Norther parks that will only be built, it would reach about 31 euros per year, i.e. 15 euros plus 16 euros, which will appear on the consumer's bill for an average household. The reforms introduced in November 2015 and June 2016 have reduced the amount of 1.30 euro – I repeat your figure here. In other words, we are talking about EUR 1.30 less than the amount due as a result of the decision of November 2015 and EUR 0.80 less than the amount due as a result of the decision of June 2016, the two amounts being cumulated. To cut the wings off a skewer duck and knowing that the day I was on the air invited by Mr. Buxant, I was coming out of a wonderful evening and night spent with you...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u55	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u56	We choose his friends!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u57	It didn't last until 5:00 in the morning!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u58	It was still a little bit of the night. At any rate, we can talk about midnight. After we had another drink with Mr. Laaouej to celebrate Mr. Friart's birthday, but it is true that it is none of your business! Moreover, we were – I didn't know yet – in the last days of the negotiation. When such a negotiation takes place, it happens at some point that many figures are sent to the figure. In doing so, I admit that the comments I made on Mr. Buxant's show – which I ask you to apologize for – were rather vague, a little exaggerated. I apologize to the rural butchers and middle bakers who may have had some fear, some anxiety.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u59	We are all, however, respectful of rural life, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u60	That's right. In Tournai, 29 villages were merged with the city of Tournai.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u61	And 500 bells.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u62	No, not 500 bells. There are five bell towers. Or if you prefer, then there are 70,000 bells.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u63	I interrupted you, excuse me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u64	There are five bell towers and four without bells. We're gonna make it. It's not 400! It's old zonder! For a medium-sized rural butcher shop or bakery, as seen in the CREG figures, and everyone reminded me, in annual consumption of 100 MWh, this amount is in the order of more or less EUR 1 000 per year, i.e. EUR 80 per month. Of course, all these figures will be adjusted further as a result of the negotiations I have already begun with the last three parks. You know that in order to meet the requirements and agreements made under these obligations by 2020 at the federal level, we still need to negotiate the completion of the last three parks, and we have begun to do so. These parks are expected to arrive around 2018 or 2019. At that time, the figures will still be adjusted. I turn to the negative hours and their impact on the profitability of offshore parks. In practice, negative hours are observed once in a while, but are relatively rare. Indeed, in the period from 2012 to 2015, there were only 24 hours in total during which the market prices on the day-ahead market were negative, of which only six consecutive hours. In theory, this risk factor is highly taken into account by the banking sector. It has a significant impact on the financing conditions for investors. I have therefore not ignored the real importance for the negative hours sector. At one point, we were embarking on all the possibilities and all the parameters, and we would have liked to increase the number of negative hours, thereby reducing the allocation of green certificates then virtual since the prices of electricity are negative and they cut their machines further than 72 hours. So it allowed them less income, but in the end, we gave it up. We left 72 negative hours. These are the hours during which producers continue to benefit from the guaranteed minimum price on their green certificates. Concerning the date of verification of the level of support by CREG, under the law, the CREG is responsible for preparing an annual report on the effectiveness of the minimum price of offshore wind energy. To assess the new reform, I asked CREG for an update of the data from its October 2015 study. I can tell you that the CREG, which I thank, has worked a lot. We've been asking for numbers all the time. She was very reactive in a very short time. His October 2015 study has been repeated on the profession. It is in particular on the basis of these elements that I have relied on to adapt the current support regime. It was thanks to the technical assistance of CREG that we were able to make progress on this issue and arrive at a solution. The content of the reform adopted on 9 June included the required return compared to neighbouring countries, etc., changes from the November Council decision, the impact for Rentel, Norther and investors. In support of production, the Council of Ministers of 20 November 2015 had opted for an objective differentiation criterion, i.e. the number of full-load equivalent hours, the number of hours per year during which wind farms produce electricity converted into full-time operating hours, rather than for park-specific support based on estimated costs and efficiency for each of them. In support of the network connection, the Council of Ministers had opted for a park-differentiated LCOE. As a result of this decision, the Council of Ministers decided to maintain the amount of LCOE for production support at EUR 138, for a full-time charge of 3,500 hours, by reducing the amount of LCOE by EUR 2 per additional 100 hours, as you saw in the press at that time. We played on that to try to reduce support. We have pre-notified our project to the European Commission, which has asked us several questions. It had expressed concern about the level of remuneration proposed in relation to neighbouring countries and about the favourable regime enjoyed by offshore wind farms for production differences. The reform adopted for Norther and Rentel concessionaire projects introduces a reduction in the required capital return from 12% to 10.5%. It reduces production support and introduces a park-differentiated LCOE – which was further advanced compared to November 2015 – of 124 euros per megawatt/hour for Norther and 129.8 euros per megawatt/hour for Rentel. For the offshore cable, the subside was reduced for Norther and increased from 12 euros to 8.2 euros per MWh. It remained 12 euros per MWh for Rentel, knowing that Rentel is further from the coast. The duration of the support scheme is reduced to 19 years instead of 20, while the concession period during which the parks can operate has increased to 22 years. The existing regime concerning negative hours is maintained. The Norther and Rentel dealers have approved this project and will soon sign a declaration of intent for the investment projects they have introduced. With regard to the international comparison, I had asked CREG to make an analysis which it must refine because the European Commission will react to it. We will move from pre-notification to notification of the whole to the European Commission. The European Commission's examination, which will also be compared with other countries, requires us to have refined elements. It is very difficult to compare systems with neighbouring countries such as the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and Germany. For example, these countries make calls for tenders while Belgium has a system based on the granting of State concessions. From the time the State concessions were granted, until the last, the regime which fixed 12% of ROE mechanically accompanied the acquisition of the concession, except for negotiations. We did it with the parks. That was the situation when we started working on this issue. Many different parameters are used to determine the returns expected by investors, such as the geographic and geological conditions of the different sites, the size and density of the parks, the tax rate, the structure of the capital, the expertise of investors, the technological evolution, the risks taken over or not by investors. When I attended the European Council of Energy Ministers last Monday, I met with the EIB representatives and had them explain to me the criteria they took into account and their level of demand. They have taken up the criteria I have just mentioned in the discussion and have explained something fundamental to me. In the first place, it is that, for the financing of offshore wind, even if there is an increasingly mature technology and which allows an increasingly easy return for investors, first in production and, of course, in financial terms, their decline in this type of structure and, at European level, is only seven years. It is therefore very difficult for them to reduce their requirements with regard to the financing they agree to provide to this type of infrastructure without a hyper-concrete and hyper-fixed frame or as fixed as possible over a period of 19 years or even 20 years. They do not yet have the necessary setback. That's the big difficulty they exposed me to. The state of play and the next steps: proposal for a law in Parliament, notification to the Commission, entry into force of the new regime. A draft bill will be introduced in the House in the very near future. The draft royal decree will soon be presented to the Council of Ministers. Under EU state aid legislation, these projects will be notified to the European Commission in the formal notification phase. It is the bill that will be notified this week. With regard to the draft royal decree, it was necessary to wait until it was sent to the Council of Ministers before being notified. As soon as the Commission enters this formal notification procedure with us, it has two months to approve the draft, which may be extended in the event of a formal request. Once these steps have been completed, the final draft may enter into force. As for the Prime Minister's role in this matter, the Prime Minister is very attentive to the development of offshore wind. It has therefore followed very closely, as it should be, the development of this dossier. It ensured that the federal government could be able to meet its commitments in the context of energy-climate burdensharing and that Belgium achieved its objectives, more precisely the federal state, in the production of renewable electricity by offshore wind farms. With regard to decisions on the extension of nuclear power plants and the impact of these decisions on the development of renewable energies, the means available within our electricity system ensure that base-load power plants do not interfere with the operation of intermittent renewable energy sources. Up to now, the removal of renewable energy production remains quite marginal and for different reasons such as, for example, local congestion. What are the alternatives to achieving climate objectives? As part of the BurdenSharing Agreement, in addition to its commitments to renewable targets, the federal government has committed to taking a series of measures to contribute to greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. The first part deals with measures already existing for a total of 15,250 kilotonnes equivalent to CO2. The second part deals with new complementary measures which should lead to additional emission reductions of 7,000 kilotonnes equivalent to CO2. The government is looking at all the avenues to achieve these additional reductions. We are precisely working on it. With regard to the possible European fine for failure to meet renewable objectives, Directive 2009/28 on the promotion of the use of energy produced from renewable sources does not provide for a penalty as such. In the event of infringement proceedings, the European Commission may ultimately sue a Member State before the European Court of Justice. If the Member State is convicted, the Member State may be fined in the form of a daily penalty payment or a lump sum payment. The amount of the fine depends in particular on the seriousness of the infringement, the number of days of infringement, the GDP and the rate of inflation. This fine would be charged from the budget of the State or Region responsible for the offence if this occurs. It would therefore not be directly passed on to households or businesses. The fine would relate to the delay in the proceedings, either the federal State or the Regions, in fulfilling their obligations under the Directive on the promotion of renewable energy sources. It does not call into question Belgium's obligations under this Directive. It would depend on certain elements of assessment and, if necessary, the Commission could be justified in the light of the delay and thus the amount of the fine would be reduced. Before reaching these ends, an exchange takes place with the Commission for compliance and finally a formal notice. You know the process! At worst, we can meet before the Court of Justice. But this, after a long exchange most of the time. With regard to the efforts made at the federal level to achieve our objectives, I am making every effort to ensure that the Federal State fulfils its commitments in this area, which are set out in the 2014-2020 BurdenSharing Agreement with the Regions. I was instructed by the government to develop a new support framework for future investment projects based on the reform adopted for Rentel and Norther and close monitoring of developments for neighbouring countries. I will ensure that the connection of all wind farms to the electricity grid is effective, in accordance with the planning for the production of these parks as communicated to me and which can always evolve. I believe that I have answered your questions as fully as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u65	Thank you for your very comprehensive reply, Madam Secretary. Despite the comprehensive answer, I am not at all reassured in terms of achieving our objectives. The way this file was dealt with and the time that has gone on don't predict anything good. You say that the Très Prochainement Act will be discussed in Parliament. I hope it is, because we still have a whole series of procedures to go through, including with the European Commission. After that one still has to start construction. The investments remain uncertain, I believe, because this government is constantly changing things. Things have changed again from November to today. That doesn't predict anything good. I wish you every success in achieving your goals. You are very confident about the fines and the sanctions, but I am not so sure about that either.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u66	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. We have done what was necessary, namely to remove the over-subsidisation. We know what effects oversubsidisation can have, both on the invoice and on political careers. I believe that we must do everything we can to move forward now and to ensure that it is done as quickly as possible and that the draft law comes to the Chamber. I suppose we all have an interest, beyond the limits of majority and opposition, in dealing with it as quickly as possible. In this respect, it may not be necessary to include a passage that does not allow the law to enter into force until the European Commission has finally given its consent, because that would give us a certain delay and prevent those parks from getting there. I look forward to the lyrics and I hope that we can quickly press the green button.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u67	Minister, thank you for your answers. We hope that the bill will arrive quickly so that the investments of these two companies can be made. I understand that the government will choose, for once, the path of wisdom and that the project will not enter into force before the European Commission's reaction to whether it is not state aid. It seems to me that we are more cautious about renewables than about nuclear energy! For the financing of nuclear power, we are not looking very much either. Here, wisdom is chosen. Finally, we have the exact cost. As Mr de Lamotte said, this is a reduction in cost, but we know that renewables will have a cost, as nuclear power had a high cost for the Belgians at the time when the power plants were built. It's good to have exact numbers. If I understand correctly, it is 2.1 euros of savings per household. I regret that there has been a misinformation on the part of your party: 55 euros of savings coming from where, neither how nor why, it is quite unpleasant! Compared to your EUR 10 000 figures, people already find it difficult to say that investing in renewables will cost any consumer. To scare independents, I find it harmful for the image we have of renewables today. I guess that wasn't your intention, but it still happened. I hope that this will be rectified among those concerned. It is important that the population adhere to the change in energy production, particularly renewable energy, which is essential, first of all for European standards, for our common future and not to pay fines. I hope that your optimism will be real and that we will fall within the lines of what we have planned at the Belgian, European and international levels with regard to the production of renewables from the federal government. Minister, we look forward to this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u68	Madam Minister, thank you for the very comprehensive answer. There were a lot of figures in it, and I must honestly say that I will have to read everything quietly in the report, because it was a lot of figures. This is a good and balanced proposal which, on the one hand, provides clarity and certainty for investors and, on the other hand, makes it affordable, without oversubsidising. We can certainly defend that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u69	As far as profitability is concerned, have I understood correctly that you have asked the CREG to study this further, or have I not understood that correctly? I had asked for a comparison of the profitability figures compared to the neighbouring countries. I hope that this will be clarified. I would nevertheless like to express further concern. 2020 will be there soon, we are already in 2016. I really hope that we do not have to go through with the payment of fines. I follow Mr Wollants' appeal that we should proceed quickly with the approval of this House. Nor should we waste time on the other three parks that still have to be realized, so that we certainly meet our renewable energy targets.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u70	Madam President, I will be brief because colleagues have already given the essentials. As far as I am concerned, I hope that some lessons will be learned from this episode so that in the future we can move faster and further in relation to the objectives. But I'm not going to start a whole debate here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u71	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. We are indeed waiting for the bill as soon as possible, but I have a clarification to obtain. I think I saw in your remarks that the Royal Order was going to be made before the bill. (...) After?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u72	There you go. We agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u73	But there are implementation effects that can reverse. That's why I was asking the question. I hear the answers you've given.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u74	I don't like retroactivity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u75	Indicate this in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u76	I already said it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u77	In any case, I am careful that the negotiating tracks that are being launched for the last three parks can be completed within acceptable time frames. Because time is passing fast, as you could see by quoting the dates in your presentation earlier. You don't have to hang out on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u78	Madam President, Madam Minister, with regard to electricity and gas, the automation of social tariffs in force since 2010 is now fully operational. In practice, however, some problems remain, for example, when the applicant has been awaiting a decision from a social institution for several months. This is also the case when applying for a disability allowance. During this period, he cannot automatically benefit from the social gas or electricity tariff. In the event that a positive decision is finally taken, the social rate will only apply with a retroactive effect of up to three months, even if you do not like it. Where appropriate, retroactivity should be extended until the actual date of existence of the right. Here's another way to improve. Today, some people who are disadvantaged, because they have low incomes, are not entitled to the social rate because they are not among the categories of beneficiaries currently provided for by law. I'm talking about pensioners, people with disabilities and CPAS recipients. Indeed, no category is now directly based on the income level of the individual or household. Minister, are you going to keep social rates at their current level or are you expecting a loss of purchasing power for the citizen benefiting from these rates? How do you intend to redefine the most needy categories in order to take into account the income criterion?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u79	Madam President, honourable Member, in order to verify whether retroactive application as applied within social institutions can be legally claimed or would be favourable to the beneficiary, my administration is carrying out both a legal and a practical evaluation. The legal assessment shows that the social tariff is a supplementary right, based on Article 11a(1) of the Law of 15 January 1990 on the establishment and organisation of a Social Security Carrefour Bank, for which the terms of a certain system, i.e. the legal framework for insured persons in the social field, cannot be deferred to another legal framework, namely the maximum social prices. Therefore, the procedures applied by my administration are in accordance with the legal framework. Although the legal assessment has clearly shown that the terms and conditions are in conformity with the legal framework, my administration has examined the impact on beneficiaries if the social tariff is applied according to the date of entry into force of the decision. This survey showed that the date of entry into force can be amended with the various institutions such as CPAS, SPF Social Security DG People with Disabilities and Federal Pension Office for all kinds of reasons. This implies that at every renewal of the law, my administration should check what the impact would be on the social tariffs already granted. Like the social institutions, following the amendment of an earlier positive decision, i.e. the claim for the refund of social benefits received, the social tariff should also be applied for. The simulations have even shown that, for some cases, restitution should be claimed before an award is granted following a review. Finally, we should demand a refund of the total amount, because the person was not entitled to the social tariff. It would therefore be an implausible confusion, illustrating all the problems posed by retroactivity. An adaptation of the automatic application can only be made if it leads to an optimisation and improvement of the current system. The evaluation exercise, as mentioned in the Government Agreement, will have to show whether there is still room for optimisation. My administration strives, on a permanent basis, to automatically grant the social rate to as many beneficiaries as possible. The amount of data that cannot be processed automatically decreases every year. Most often, this is due to the fact that they are not properly available in the electronic system, because they were not registered for automation. That is why I have asked my administration to focus on evaluating, as reflected in the government agreement, the optimisation and improvement of the current system. The categories eligible for the application of the social tariff to the energy bill have been carefully defined and determined by the legislator in the past. At present, they may not cover all households or persons who have difficulty paying the bill. The government agreement provides for an assessment of social tariffs. On this occasion, the categories will also be reviewed. The difference in eligibility is therefore rooted in the establishment of the relevant legislation, which dates back about 10 years. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that, in order to qualify for the social rate, the final customer or one of the members of a household must receive an allowance from the CPAS, the SPF Social Security DG People with Disabilities and the National Pension Office. Depending on the category of beneficiaries to which the person belongs, social institutions decide, on the basis of a social survey, whether they are entitled to an allowance. The social survey takes into account the income of the household concerned. In 2015, 470,968 electricity contracts and 278,084 natural gas contracts benefited from the application of the social tariff, i.e. 10% of all energy contracts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u80	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, which is rich in numbers. I hear what you are saying and the perceived willingness to simplify the procedures already sufficiently complex. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that when the evaluation is completed, it would be good if there were no social setbacks for a number of people in relation to the existing situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u81	Question No 12016 by Ms Leen Dierick is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u82	Madam Minister, during your opening speech at the World Energy Tour, held in Brussels on 19 April, you announced that "a package of measures will be proposed before the summer" on long-term energy policy, including how to achieve it. As the summer begins soon, I would like to know as precisely as possible what this package includes, with, for each measure, the elements necessary to see how it can be achieved, both in terms of supply and transport, in terms of reserves and in terms of availability of resources, so that all the chapters you announced are covered in your answer. I would also like you to specify, for each item, the means that will be developed, since you announced them at the World Energy Tour "in line with environmental objectives".
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u83	Mr President, at the presentation of the World Energy Outlook on 19 April, I announced a package of measures by the summer. The summer begins on June 21 and ends later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u84	It was "before the summer"!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u85	You know that we are going to work a little more in this Parliament. But I understand. The weather summer, although not visible, begins on 21 June, that is, in a short time. These measures should form the basis for a long-term political vision on energy, a robust, sustainable and coherent long-term energy vision that will respond to major energy and climate challenges, but also to the opportunities and risks that result for businesses, institutions and citizens. This vision will include all the energy carriers and all the political aspects to ensure the long-term supply of electricity in our country. As you know, in this context, on 21 December, I asked Elia to carry out a study describing our needs for both adequacy and flexibility for the period 2017-2027. This study was presented on 20 April 2016 and subsequently, at my request, was submitted by my administration for consultation with more than seventeen stakeholders. At present, the responses of the various actors involved are analysed and I expect a report from my administration shortly. On the basis of this report, proposals will be submitted to the Council of Ministers before 21 July, I hope.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u86	Now, summer is July 21, Mr. Nollet!.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u87	You want to know what year. This year, I hope!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u88	Minister, I heard your answer. All who will read the record of our exchange will find that there is nothing concrete.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u89	For now, that's not possible!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u90	You have seven days left! June 21st...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u91	I said, "Before July 21st." I have a little more than seven days left!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u92	If I take your statements back to the World Energy Outlook, it's before the summer. And summer is June 21.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u93	It's a little heavy semantics! The summer will continue beyond 21 June, I hope!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u94	Earlier, we were discussing another case for which you were one year late.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u95	I agree! That is why Mr de Lamotte asked what year it was!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u96	I would not dare to be as provocative as my colleague, Mr de Lamotte.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u97	It's amazing!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u98	This is the first time!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u99	You have the palm of provocation. It's exceptional! In addition, it is awarded to you by Mr. Nollet. That's fantastic!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u100	And I would like this to be reflected in the reports. Minister, despite all the skills you have in charge, you will not be able to change the date that marks the beginning of the summer. So you have seven days left. Beyond this very tight time frame, you must above all be more precise when you make commitments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u101	No. I have to be less precise! Indeed, when I spoke of the summer, you thought of the weather summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u102	Mr Nollet has the floor, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u103	Allow me, Madam Minister, to be much more specific about content in the future. You said that a large package of measures would be proposed. And, today, no proposal is made to us. We'll see what the government proposes. But beyond the question of the timetable, nothing results from this statement. In any case, I can only regret that the timetable is not being respected, but also and above all the sidereal void in terms of content. I hope I caught up with that, Mr. de Lamotte.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u104	Mr. Nollet, I'm going to listen to your advice. I will therefore be very careful, especially when making "outside" statements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u105	Madam Minister, it is true that you are mentioned very regularly. You are very volubile when making your "outside" statements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u106	We mustn't exaggerate. I'm not the only one who's very volubile.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u107	In any case, they allow us to ask you many questions. Having said that, Mr. Nollet, the last word is yours.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u108	Madam President, you have concluded very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u109	Madam Minister, in France, EDF has just asked for a thorough review of the timetable for dismantling nuclear power plants, and in particular the reactor casings, asking for 50 to 60 years more than expected! Imagine! It's a very official request. Recall that the current law provides for deconstruction in France "within as short a time as possible". Without waiting for the decision, EDF has already taken the consequence in its own annual accounts published in February, which you may have already seen. The provisions were increased by some EUR 300 million by EDF itself, on its own initiative, even before obtaining a response from the Authority as to whether it agreed. Even if we know that the techniques are a little different in Belgium and that they are not the same generations of power plants, what about Belgium? What is the time frame that is currently being used and according to which framework? I would like to ask you this question because EDF has highlighted the arguments that "the technologies envisaged presented far too high risks and that it is therefore necessary to abandon the dismantling under water (...) this avoids the problems of watertightness and corrosion (...)". Are these arguments equally valid in Belgium? Are we going to Belgium to dismantle "underwater"? What do you think of the arguments now highlighted by EDF? Can you reassure us that you will still be there when the dismantling takes place?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u110	Do you want the minister to remain in her office for another 50 or 60 years?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u111	I spoke just so I wouldn't have to deal with this kind of situation. It must be guaranteed that in Belgium the principle of disbanding a power plant immediately after production is stopped is not moved.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u112	It's clearer. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u113	In March 2016, the French Nuclear Safety Authority interviewed EDF on its strategy for dismantling "natural uranium-graphite-gas" (UNGG) reactors, which is generation I of nuclear reactors, in the sense that we must hear it here. These reactors used natural uranium as fuel and were gas-cooled. They have been arrested for more than 30 years and are being dismantled. This sector, which is now obsolete, had been developed in France in the 1950s. The French Nuclear Safety Agency's assessments, in the case of these first-generation reactors, do not apply at all to the Belgian nuclear reactor fleets, all of which are second-generation pressurized water reactors, including Doel 1, Doel 2 and Tihange 1. When they speak here in Belgium of generations I and II, it is not at all the same thing. As I indicated in my reply to your written question No 127 of October 2015, Belgium does not have a regulatory framework which strictly sets out the strategy for immediate or delayed dismantling, or the final point of dismantling. The dismantling scenario used in Belgium as a basis for the provision of decommissioning is: cumulatively, immediate or almost immediate dismantling after the final shutdown of nuclear power plants and complete dismantling to allow the site to be used for other industrial purposes. Both at the same time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u114	Minister, you say there is no framework, but there is a statute of limitations. Could you remind me of the exact words you used to clarify these two elements?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u115	The dismantling scenario used in Belgium as a basis for providing for the dismantling of nuclear power plants is: cumulatively, a dismantling...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u116	There is a contradiction here. There's no framework, but there's a scenario. Is this scenario binding?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u117	If you want to ask me an additional question, you will have the answer. It's technical. As you have noted, all the words are very precise.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u118	I can hear you. I will return to that point.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u119	Belgium does not have a strict regulatory framework. Therefore, the decommissioning scenario used in Belgium as a basis for providing for the decommissioning of nuclear power plants is: cumulatively, an immediate dismantling after the final shutdown of nuclear power plants and a complete dismantling to allow the site to be used for other industrial purposes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u120	I can only invite you to incorporate this into a legal framework if what exists is not enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u121	For when? For when?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u122	What is possible for you?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u123	We're a little busy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u124	Next spring!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u125	No, no, no! When you ask your next question, we may have the opportunity to answer it a little more precisely.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u126	I'll come back with a request for a timetable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u127	Madam President, Minister, the implementation of the strategic reserve and the balancing services of the Elias network have made it possible to develop considerably the management of demand and the tools to create a virtual power plant almost equivalent to Doel 1 and 2 composed solely of industries ready to reduce their consumption temporarily in exchange for financial compensation. The potential of this market is tens of millions of euros in Belgium. Currently, demand management allows electricity consumption to be erased for several hours by large companies whose consumption is comparable to the production of a power plant. This downward demand management must be maintained, even though the strategic reserve that allowed the emergence of this type of product has never had to be activated and should not be used in the coming years. For example, its development needs to be encouraged, and increasing demand management must also be implemented in order to compensate for the overproduction of renewable energy during, for example, windy and sunny summer days where rising demand management will ensure that the electricity grid remains in balance despite the injection of a large amount of electricity onto the grid. The electricity regulator, CREG, worked with the stakeholders to implement a framework and create two new roles in the electricity market: the flexibility service provider and the demand management data manager. The CREG has just released its final report on demand management and, as an appendix to this study, the regulator has inserted the draft legislation that has just been communicated to the Minister. Minister, when are you going to table a bill on the benches of the House to create the legal framework necessary for the development of demand management? Are you going to create these two new roles in the energy market model proposed by CREG?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u128	Madam President, honourable Member, demand management is indeed a vector that offers a great deal of potential and can, in general, provide more flexibility in the electricity markets. I am obviously very attentive to it and I am convinced that its importance will increase in the future. Demand management is already playing an important role in maintaining the balance of the electricity grid and, in this regard, I would like to inform you that Elia is planning various actions to ensure that all products are accessible to demand management. More specifically, Elia is implementing a platform, called bid ladder, where market players will be able to offer the available flexibility that will come not only from production but also from demand. The proposals and the CREG bill that follow on from its study on how to facilitate access to demand management are very interesting. My services are currently studying how the market model developed by CREG could be made operational effectively and as quickly as possible. The legal framework is obviously important for the development of demand. A bill is being discussed between CREG, Elia and my administration. There has been an impressive series of meetings, and now it is the three bodies that are discussing with my firm. This bill aims to remove barriers between demand management and producers whose conventional facilities are connected to the Elias network. The project is based on the principles highlighted by the study of the CREG with, in a first phase, an operational start in mid-2017 as part of the management of the balance of the network. In a second phase, the possibilities in the Day Ahead markets, thus day –1 and intraday day J, will be studied in more depth because some think that demand management is excellent and practical for auxiliary services R1, R2 and R3 but that – that's what the Germans and the Dutch think – this is more problematic for the Intranet and that the market does this on its own. Technically, I can't explain it to you. We could talk about it later. It is very interesting to look at this because there are two trends. It's not solved yet. That is why I asked for a further study on this. My intention is to submit a proposal to adapt the law to the Council of Ministers as soon as possible. The role and responsibility of a flexibility service operator and a flexibility data manager are well defined in the CREG study. My proposal will be to entrust the role and responsibility of the flexibility data manager to Elia.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u129	Minister, thank you for your answers. We are very attentive to this dimension of demand management. It is a concept that seems to us to be conducive to the future. Nevertheless, a regulatory framework is needed in relation to the operators to be created. You are announcing a bill in mid-2017. Do I have to understand that it is on that date that you think? With regard to the regulatory framework, you would like to entrust Elia with the role of data manager for demand management.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u130	The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u131	It seems normal to me. The regulatory framework will be defined in this way. I am very attentive and write down your mid-2017 date. Or is it earlier?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u132	I said as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u133	Madam Chair, Minister, on April 23, 2015, CREG published a study and made the following recommendations, in order of priority:1. amend the Electricity Act to exempt storage units from federal assessment and offshore green certificate overload; 2. to amend the Electricity Act with a view to introducing a favourable tariff regime for storage plants; 3. request an amendment to the loss compensation mechanism on the 380/220/150 kV network provided for in the Federal Technical Regulation. A year has passed since this study was tabled on your desk and I believe you have not had the ambition to move forward on this subject. Currently, the battery and hydraulic storage sector is in stand-by waiting for a legal framework, while there is huge potential. Minister, when are you finally going to move forward on this issue? Will you implement the CREG recommendations, which have been on your desk for more than a year?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u134	Madam Chair, Mr.Member, the recommendations made in the study of the CREG of 23 April 2015 have been the subject of negotiations with the relevant stakeholders. The importance of storage, which is the essential during wind and solar, is no longer to be demonstrated, whether in terms of adequacy or in terms of balancing, and also in various auxiliary services. In this context and following the study of the CREG on 5 May and negotiations with stakeholders, an amendment to the Electricity Act will be proposed to the Council of Ministers as soon as possible. The provisions (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u135	There's going to be a congestion in the funnel, minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u136	It's always like that! The provisions establish a framework for exploitation which is conducive to further developments in this sector. These provisions will be complemented by others in line with the September 2015 TSO study. So we are moving forward – and you have understood it well – on all aspects of demand management and storage. And texts will be presented soon. There will be ample room for discussion on these issues as soon as the texts are available.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u137	Mr. de Lamotte, a date?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u138	I'm not the one giving the dates, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u139	I'm cautiously accurate!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u140	In any event, on April 23, 2015, CREG filed the file. Today is June 14, 2016. It's been over a year. I think that our wish is to move forward as quickly as possible in cases that have significant potential - as you have acknowledged in your response - whether it is demand management or storage. So, minister, it's time to hurry you up quickly, if I may. We can keep seeing each other every Tuesday in this room or another, to move forward. I look forward to hearing about your draft texts in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u141	I'm gonna try not to make you die impatiently.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u142	Minister, a little over a year ago, you were canceling the call for tenders for new gas capabilities and since then, you have done nothing. As far as the existing gas-fired power stations are concerned, three of them will still be present in the strategic reserve next winter, and then we do not know what will happen to this reserve. Therefore, Minister, how are you going to develop new gas capabilities? What is the fate of the strategic reserve?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u143	Mr President, the energy transition is being built. I first wanted to know with precision the state of our park, its needs and the evolution of these in the next decade. That is why, on 21 December 2015, I asked Elia to determine our needs both in terms of adequacy and flexibility. Gas is flexibility. They gave me their study on April 18, 2016, and released it on April 20th. The study was then submitted by my administration to a wide-ranging consultation involving the various institutions and stakeholders: the National Bank, the Office of Planning, Academics, CREG, Fluxys, the Economic and Social Council, FEBEC, etc. The answers of the various actors are analysed by my firm and my administration, which will report to me on this vast survey and will shortly propose conclusions and proposals which should serve me before 21 July this year to bring out a beautiful package. This report will also enable me to determine, both in terms of adequacy and flexibility, both the volumes and the means to provide them. On this basis, therefore, I will soon be able to propose to the government a plan that will, I hope, ensure for the next decade a secure, flawless, robust supply that will prepare the country for the out phase of nuclear power between 2022 and 2025. These provisions will, of course, incorporate what has already been prepared – and which has been the subject of answers to other questions – with regard to offshore, demand management and storage provisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u144	I look forward to being on July 21.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u145	After or before? We'll have a drink that day.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u146	On the 20th, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u147	Yeah, but on the 21st, it's a Thursday.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u148	On that day, it's off; we're going to the King's house.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u149	Of course, I hope he comes for a drink.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u150	I am looking forward to July 20 and I am already putting in my agenda the guidelines that you proposed to me at this memorable meeting on June 14.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u151	An Excel painting, please, Mr. de Lamotte. Mr de Lamotte will make an Excel table for the members of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u152	Madam Minister, following its analysis of the budgetary adjustment, the Court of Auditors goes back to the Tihange 1 fee. For once, it is not you that I will quote, but this institution: "The Court also finds that no specific article is included in the draft adjustment of the Ways and Means budget for revenue from the extension of Tihange 1, while articles are entered for that of Doel 1 and Doel 2. It notes, however, that a sum of €7.2 million was paid in 2016 by the owners of the Tihange power plant, but to an inadequate FPS Economy account as Tihange 1 revenue for 2015. The Act of 15 May 2014 provided for the creation of two budgetary funds, a 'flexible electricity production' fund and a 'wind production in the North Sea' fund, which were to be financed annually by one-third and two-thirds of the Tihange 1 levy, respectively. Pending the effective establishment of these two budgetary funds, this amount is still available in this account of the SPF Economy". I find it particularly disloyal, Madam Minister, that you deliberately concealed this information in Parliament during the many debates in the context of the review of the Doel 1 and 2 royalty bill. I'm not going to reread everything you've said in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u153	I don't either, or, at least, not right now. I still read it all again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u154	That the CREG has not yet validated this figure is by no means a reason not to inform Members that a payment has been made. You obviously chose to ignore this information because it contradicted your arguments about the lump sum for Doel 1 and 2. This is an unfortunate attitude towards Members. Minister, my questions are as follows. Why was this payment made on what the Court of Auditors described as an inadequate account of the FPS Economy? Why is no specific item included in the plan to adjust the Ways and Means budget for revenue from the extension of Tihange 1? When is the actual establishment of the two budgetary funds established by the Act of 15 May 2014 (which is therefore to be implemented) planned? When will CREG validate the amount paid? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u155	Madam Minister, my surprise was great when I discovered that the nuclear operators had paid €7.2 million as a provision for Tihange 1 for the last quarter of 2015. While this information was known to you, like Mrs. Lalieux, I note that you have been concealing this information for weeks. You claimed that nothing would be paid by the nuclear operators. Today, however, we discover that this is not the case. So, there are truths and counter-truths in the 7.2 million euro file for Tihange. Madam Minister, why did you hide this information from us? Why is this amount not the subject of a specific article in the context of the budget adjustment project, since this money has actually arrived? Thank you for your double answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u156	Colleagues, I didn't hide or camouflage anything from you, contrary to what you might think. I'll explain the story of this case, which is still very interesting. I have a full answer here, but I'll tell you the story first because it's more interesting like that. As I explained to you a hundred times, at the end of 2015, I asked CREG to do simulations on what Tihange 1 should report, knowing that Tihange 1, for the first year of this calculation, would have been calculated in its operation for the fee only from 1 October (day of its 40th anniversary) until 31 December 2015. The CREG gave me a series of simulations. At that time, I told you what I saw in simulations. I am not going to repeat to you all that I have said about the nearly 1,000 pages of parliamentary annals that form the whole of our work since we have been working actively together on the nuclear side, that is, since 2015. But I looked well and therefore perfectly explained what I saw at that time in the simulations of the CREG, that is to say nothing or practically nothing. You'll understand why that's not right. You're saying I hid that $7.2 million, which was deposited into an inadequate account. This amount was paid by the partner operators in Tihange 1, Electrabel and EDF in mid-April 2016. From the moment I talk to you about the assessment made by CREG, etc., etc. and the one where Mr Friart asked me - he is the only one, let's be honest - when you "frits" yourself in the plenary session on 2 June...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u157	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u158	But no, it's not Friart's fault! I didn't talk about that, it wasn't the subject. When that money came into an inadequate account, I knew it had arrived. Why didn't I palate you? I could have yelled "stop" right now. There was no other subject to consider on that day, and that was all we had to do. You have to read it again, it's fun. I'll explain why...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u159	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u160	Do you think I've had time? Do you remember that movie? The decibels were once again...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u161	You have hundreds of collaborators in your firm!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u162	This was paid into an inadequate account because it was Electrabel and EDF who decided to pay. In fact, all this is currently being studied by the CREG, which is due to give 30 June 2016, as required by law... Article 4, §1 of the law of 31 January 2003 says that the CREG validates the amount or not. From the moment it is validated, it will exist. I have been told in the budget accounts that this amount cannot be entered because we do not know the fee recognized and that we will not know it until the CREG has validated this amount or not and has explained itself. If it does so on 30 June, we will ask for an amendment in the first budgetary adjustment and if it does not do so on 30 June but later, it will be the second budgetary adjustment or the third. That is why there is not yet a dedicated bank account created for this sum. So they paid into an account they knew, I don't know which one, in mid-April 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u163	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u164	This amount is not definitive. Without prejudice to the outcome of the ongoing analysis of the CREG, I have instructed my administration to proceed with the creation of an ad hoc bank account and the effective establishment of two budgetary funds, i.e. the settlement of these funds. You are right, Mr Wathelet – whom I do not wish to attack, even if it is said in the newspapers – created the principle of these two funds, which Mrs Lalieux recalled earlier, but he did not create the rules for their use. Whether he did not have the time or did not want it, it is my responsibility to do so, and I will do so at the same time as the creation of the rules for the use of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 funds by royal decrees.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u165	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I think that Tihange 1 was quoted every afternoon in the debate on Doel 1 and Doel 2; you said that it did not suffer from any comparison since Tihange 1 did not earn anything. Perhaps in plenary, Mr Friart recalled this, but, in my view, from the moment when there was a payment in April, one can have the correction to tell Mr Friart that there has been a payment from the operators in relation to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u166	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u167	No, because you replied, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u168	Not about it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u169	You're replicating what you want!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u170	I'm going back to what I want!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u171	You didn't just attack Mr. Wathelet, there's only the press doing it. But in The Evening of the Weekend, a week ago, you said there was still no money back!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u172	Mrs. Lalieux, I'd like to say this. Just now, I used the term "biasing ducks" at the right time. The biaser is the one who takes the crossways and cuts the hair in four. I didn't say anything in the press last weekend. Everyone reads the newspaper that they want to read, but it should not be confused and I still remember what I'm saying and to whom!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u173	Yes, but I read the press, Madam Minister, and I do see that this information was there. Furthermore, in relation to the establishment of the two funds, you know that the law of 15 May 2014 was passed under conditions that were those of 2014 and I do not think that Mr.Wathelet had time to create the regulations of the two funds. On the other hand, I think that since then, an administration would have had time to draft the royal decrees and create the two funds and their regulations, writing a green note, for example, without waiting for the money to fall in 2016. So I look forward to seeing the creation of these two funds because they will go to important policies. In particular, we talked about the offshore earlier. I also look forward to seeing these regulations implemented. I hope that the CREG will validate the sum very quickly so that it is included in a budget adjustment as close as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u174	Minister, I heard you didn't make any statements to the press last week or the previous week, I don't know anymore. In the weekend newspapers, it is actually documents that are cited. We spent an afternoon and a half night, as you mentioned earlier, discussing both Tihange 1 and Doel 1 and 2. Do not drag the information that there was money that had arrived, I find it a bit special. Fortunately, Members are consulting the Court of Auditors' reports to verify ex post facto the situation. Perhaps transparency would have required us to talk about it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u175	Minister, contrary to the situation for Category A waste, an institutional policy on the long-term management of Category B and C waste still needs to be put in place. In this respect, the government agreement states that the government will take national policy measures in the field of the management of nuclear waste categories B and C. The municipality (municipalities) which will be chosen, after an extensive participatory process, will (will) obtain compensation by analogy with the final surface disposal of Category A waste. Minister, what is the status of work on the long-term management of Category B and C waste? What decisions have been taken at this stage? Have you submitted any proposals to the Council of Ministers? What are the next steps in this complex issue? I recognize, Madam Minister, that the previous government has worked on this issue without reaching an agreement. However, if the State fails, at some point, to take a decision on the matter, it will not comply with European rules on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u176	Madam President, as I said earlier, the law of 3 June 2014 transposing Directive 2011/Euratom establishing a Community framework for the responsible and safe management of spent fuel and radioactive waste provides, in Article 4, that the King shall, on a proposal from ONDRAF and following the advice of AFCN, establish by deliberate decision in the Council of Ministers national policies on the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel. These national policies should be considered as plans or programmes within the meaning of the Act of 13 February 2006 on the assessment of the impact of certain plans and programmes on the environment and on public participation in the preparation of plans and programmes relating to the environment. They shall also contain arrangements for reversibility, recovery and monitoring for a period to be determined as elements for the design and operation of each final storage facility in order to ensure the nuclear safety of the storage facility. In 2015, the ONDRAF Board of Directors instructed its Director General, Mr Minon, to propose to the government a national policy for the long-term management of radioactive waste of categories B and C, i.e. the most dangerous, therefore of long-term high activity, including spent fuel if declared waste. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy, Kris Peeters, and I have received a proposal from ONDRAF for a national policy for geological storage of high activity and/or long-lived radioactive waste in clay. Such a decision that engages our country for years, even decades, is obviously not taken lightly. The urgency in this area would be bad advice, even if a decision had to be taken, given the time that had already passed. We are currently analysing the ONDRAF proposal and will respond as soon as possible. At this stage, it is impossible to say what the next deadlines are. But if that can reassure you, we intend to implement what is provided for in the government agreement. In this way, we will be concerned about this matter. As I see it, a whole first part of the legislature will have been devoted to the elements of production and the pact, which will continue. But in the second part, attention will be really focused on waste management. Several elements must be taken into account – not just this one. Nuclear supplies and lots of interesting things will happen from October.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u177	Thank you, Minister. I know that this is going to happen in the Council of Ministers and that there is going to be a royal decree. The presentation of the plan deserves a parliamentary debate. We already had one, there are two legislatures, I think. I hope we can come back and, as you say so well, I think we will have to talk again about the Synatom law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u178	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u179	Madam Minister, on 18 May last the European Commission published its country-specific recommendations which form part of the European Semester, the coordination of national economic policies. In view of the numerous unplanned interruptions in Belgian nuclear power plants, the European Commission considers that this energy source is not reliable. This is item 17 on the recommendations. The European Commission is also of the view that changes in the nuclear exit schedule do not favour the investment climate conducive to the creation of new production units in Belgium. In conclusion, the European Commission is calling for rapid action to encourage investment in additional production capacity and to promote demand management. The whole debate has already taken place with Mr de Lamotte. I would like to know your analysis of the European Commission's recommendations and what action you are going to take to restore the investment climate in the electricity sector in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u180	Madam President, on 18 May 2016, the Commission issued, within the framework of the European Semester, a draft recommendation on the national reform programme for Belgium for 2016 and on the Council's opinion on the stability programme for Belgium for 2016. Recital 10 of this draft refers to unreliable sources.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u181	Not reliable!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u182	In our view, the Commission has based itself on incorrect reasoning. We told them. On the one hand, nuclear power plants remain reliable base-load energy sources. On the other hand, the ageing of facilities is not affected by this. Some nuclear units have recently suffered the impact of unplanned long-term shutdowns in the following two situations: Doel 3 and Tihange 2 shutdown during the period 2012-2015 following the discovery of micro-faults in the steel of the reactor tanks. After numerous studies carried out under the control of the safety authority, including the use of numerous independent international experts, it was considered, at the end of 2015, that the phenomenon had no impact on the safety of the operation. The Doel 4 unit was shut down for several months during the second half of 2014 following an act resulting in oil loss, which caused significant damage to the turbine. These events have had an impact on the availability of the units concerned. As you know, the various nuclear units concerned have since resumed their electricity generation operations after the operation of the competent safety authority. Those comments were reported to the Commission, which agreed to amend recital 10 on the basis of the information provided. The unfortunate mention "untrustworthy source" will therefore be deleted. With regard to the recommendation on investment in productive capacity, through the development of federal and regional energy visions leading to an inter-federal pact in 2017, policies can be pursued by complementing and strengthening: an energy policy that meets the expectations of consumers, individuals, professionals and industry; a policy that provides a stable framework for the necessary investments in infrastructure and production capacity. The government has just validated the agreements with the future Rentel and Norther wind farms and will ensure that the following parks can be completed quickly so that our offshore facilities reach, as expected, 2,200 megawatts in 2020. Two other important areas included in the government declaration will be strengthened, as the related texts are in the process of being finalized. These are demand and storage management, which are essential points of support for our network in that they contribute to adequacy and flexibility. The approach resulting from the study of the TSO and the ensuing broad consultation will lead in the same way to the definition of a structural block guaranteeing the adequacy of our transport network and therefore of our security of supply through various sources.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u183	Minister, thank you for your answer. Instead, I shared the European Commission's recital on the lack of reliability over the last five years of nuclear production in our country. It is true that legal frameworks will be defined, but there is an urgent need. The pact has, for example, been postponed for two years. In addition, investments are no longer activated, except for offshore investments. It is therefore time for the legal provisions to benefit other sources of energy than nuclear energy, since, for the moment, you are only dealing with nuclear energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u184	Mr de Lamotte, I give you the floor to speak on your question under agenda item 28.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u185	Minister, would it be possible to obtain a written answer to my questions 12225 and 12226? These are the results of the European Councils and this concerns a relatively technical subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u186	Yes, absolutely.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u187	I therefore turn these two questions into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u188	Madam Minister, on 4 December 2015, you presented to the Council of Ministers a preliminary draft law on various energy provisions which provided for the adaptation of Belgian legislation following a formal notice from the European Commission. According to the press release, this preliminary draft was to repeal Article 25 of the Act of 12 April 1965, which provides for a derogation regime for the high-pressure gas pipeline UK, which connects the Belgian and UK natural gas transmission networks. It also provided for a certification procedure and regulation applicable to the Interconnector Manager. Have you received any advice from the Council of State on this matter? Why have you not yet tabled a bill to comply with European law? Do you expect Belgium to be condemned by the Court of Justice in this case before taking action? As you know, Belgium has been notified by the European Commission in the context of the transposition of the third energy package. The issues for which an initiative on your part is required include: the autonomy of the CREG with regard to binding decisions and measures to be taken with regard to undertakings, the guidelines for the development of the tariff methodology, the inspection powers of the CREG, the maximum amount of fines. Belgium replied to the European Commission's letter of formal notice on 17 February 2015. The legal framework must therefore be adapted. Why have you not yet tabled a bill to comply with European law? Or is the tactic to be condemned by the Court of Justice?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u189	Mr President, the law of 8 January 2012 transposed into Belgian law the third energy package, namely Directives 2009/72 Electricity and 2009/73 Gas. This responsibility was in my predecessor's area of competence. Considering this incorrect transposition, the European Commission initially issued a notice of formal notice to which Belgium replied on 17 February 2015 and then a reasoned opinion on 25 February 2016. The notice of formal notice, I do not have the precise date, was linked to my predecessor's previous file. I refer to the sitting of your committee, Madam President, on 3 May for details of the grievances raised in this reasoned opinion which I have read to you. It was long enough, but I went through all the grievances. I would point out that with regard to the UK Interconnector, which is the subject of one of your questions (12327), we intend to follow the opinion of the European Commission and amend Article 25 of the Gas Act. As a reminder, it provides for a derogation regime for the Interconnector UK and makes certain provisions of the Gas Act inapplicable to the Interconnector UK. As regards the sanctioning power of the federal regulator, we will increase the maximum amount of the fine from 3 % to 10 % of the turnover of the transmission system operator, as requested by the European Commission. The above-mentioned legal provisions are the subject of a bill containing various provisions on energy, which will shortly be tabled in Parliament. A draft bill on this subject will soon be on the government table. For the other grievances, the examination is under way and must be done on certain points in cooperation with the Regions and with my colleague in charge of consumer protection, Mr Kris Peeters. With regard to directives to be transposed, States may choose the most appropriate means of achieving the objectives set. The response to the reasoned opinion is due by 25 July 2016 at the latest to the European Commission. I think I had already said that there had been a postponement that we had obtained by 25 July.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u190	Minister, I hear the dates you're putting forward, but remember that the bills were discussed at first reading in December 2015 and we are currently in June 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u191	They were in a bill with various provisions. We asked for urgency for this bill and we did not get it from the Council of State. You saw what happened in the Conference of Presidents. The bill containing various provisions included a series of points. In particular, there was an update on nuclear civil liability. Following a decision by the Conference of Presidents, there are points that have fallen, including this one, since we did not get the urgency in the head of the Council of State. This text still exists. He continues his life and will soon be represented in another format. I do not know whether it will be a law with various provisions or an autonomous piece of law or another configuration. I've heard of another possibility. We'll see. The vehicle doesn't matter. You're interested in timing. The important timing is still the response to the reasoned opinion which is due to reach the European Commission on 25 July 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u192	I will add this in my Excel table of deadlines. But, we must not accuse other instances of his own turpitude.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u193	There, you are not very correct because you know very well that the transposition has become incorrect and that it is not on my head. The criticisms of the European Commission are not my leader. You mustn't mix everything!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u194	So we are waiting for one more project.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u195	Yes, but it's up to you to work!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u196	Of course, I'm not working. I'm not doing anything!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u197	Madam Minister, we will close here. There was a good atmosphere. I think we're going to be drowned in texts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u198	I think so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u199	I hope, however, that we will not work urgently, but in substance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u200	Madam President, I said that earlier. I repeat. Aware of this, I have asked the Council of State to respond to the 30-day allocation contribution bill. I thought... anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u201	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u202	It comes back on the 22nd or the 23rd.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u203	I said it earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u204	Yes, yes. I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-14-54-commissie-ic443x.u205	I know Mrs. Lalieux listened to me.
