ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u1	Minister, I've already asked you about big data in March 2015. In the question I sent you, I took back what you told me at the time. I am not going to read your answer again because I have no doubt that you have been able to read it. Earlier, in the debate on eHealth, I referred to an agreement between the National Institute of Sickness and Disability Insurance (INAMI) and the Scientific Institute of Public Health (SPI) on the standardization of the registration of certain health data through a platform called healthdata.be. This platform uses pseudonymous data but it is possible to find the patient, unlike the aggregated data. It is quite technical but it changes everything in terms of guarantee in terms of anonymity. I then asked you to have this agreement between INAMI and ISP and to have your opinion on these "pseudonymised" and non-aggregated data. Apart from the fact that you had received the green light from the Privacy Commission, you had not given me any information. I have consulted the website healthdata.be and, for example, the IQED register, which contains the health data of patients with diabetes, contains, for each patient, the name, first name, date of birth, sex and place of residence. Minister, what about the compliance of this IQED registry with the principle of respect for the patient's privacy and with your commitment to use only "anonymized" data, which in no way allows us to trace the identity of the person concerned? Evidence to support this is clearly not the case! Is the status of the IQED registry unique or are other registries affected by this collection of non-anonymized personal data of patients?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u2	Mrs Fonck, in the context of the Initiative for Quality Promotion and Epidemiology in Diabetes Care (IQED) register, the healthdata.be platform of the PSI collects only "pseudonymised" data, i.e. data that prevent formal identification of patients. The description of the data collection shall indicate the name, first name, date of birth, sex and place of residence. The name and surname are used only for the purpose of facilitating registration by the clinician. They are never disclosed to the healthdata.be platform. With regard to the date of birth, only the month and year are transmitted to the platform. Finally, the place of residence is always aggregated by the person who provides the data at a level determined by the Health Sector Committee. Each measure is applicable to all data collections. These "pseudonymization" measures are clearly displayed in HD4DP, the Health Data for Data Providers, which is used in hospitals. Based on the description of the data collection published on the healthdata.be website, it turns out that the measures are not clear to everyone. This will be resolved during the next update of HD4DP software. The healthdata.be platform collects "pseudonymized" data. This method is necessary to conduct longitudinal studies, to monitor the quality of data and, in some cases, to recruit patients. All this is impossible with completely anonymous data. The healthdata.be platform of the ISP provides all technical features to ensure the security of information and the protection of the privacy of the patient and the care provider, in addition to medical confidentiality. To do this, the following electronic services are specifically integrated into the basic structure of the e-health platform: secure mail box, coding and "anonymization", e-health certificate, integrated user and access management, end-to-end encryption system. The "pseudonymization" is carried out by a third party, the e-health platform which means that neither the healthdata.be platform of the PSI nor the registry researchers can trace the identity of the patients. The basic structure of the Healthdata platform was submitted to the eHealth platform architecture working group on 12 September 2014. The group approved this architecture on 6 March 2015. It was also approved by the Sectoral Committee on Social Security and Health. With regard to development and implementation, PSI has worked closely with the sector, including hubs such as the Walloon Health Network, Abrumet, Cooperative Zorgplatform, Vlaams Ziekenhuisnetwerk, KU Leuven and Antwerp Regionale Hub. On the Walloon Hospital side, the HD4DP application of the Healthdata platform has been integrated into the X-connect connector. The ISP Healthdata platform has appointed a safety advisor and a doctor responsible for the confidentiality of the data contained in the various registers. They are responsible for ensuring that every staff member of the eHealthdata.be platform, as well as every researcher with access to the platform, has access to only the data they really need to accomplish their mission. In addition, a professionally confidential care actor, without any connection to the Healthdata platform and receiving the data, will perform a small sell risk analysis at each data collection. It also describes any action to be taken to prevent any new identification of patients on the basis of pseudonymized personal data available to researchers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u3	Madam President, Minister, you are giving a lot of information that I knew for the most part, but you are not answering the essential question. Why do you allow pseudonymized and not aggregated data to be used? It is legitimate to collect health data, but doctors cannot be asked to provide information about their patients without guaranteeing that the data are permanently anonymous. Are they anonymous? Actually, not so much. They are treated in such a way that it is possible, with the conversion table, to convert the pseudonym into the patient's identity. The patient's identity is therefore preserved and, if necessary, it can be found. I do not claim that it is your intention to identify patients but to guarantee anonymity means to guarantee it definitively. Otherwise tomorrow, another Minister of Health could again authorize the identification of patients in order to process the data for a purpose other than that guided during their harvest. I insist: why not work with non-aggregated data to ensure anonymity through these locks?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u4	Madam President, you may not have heard, but the answer is clear. The Healthdata platform only collects pseudonymized data. This method is necessary to conduct longitudinal studies. It includes keys such as the registration of the persons who consult it, the implementation of a risk analysis and the commitment of the responsibility of doctors. I do not understand how the answer I have given you does not enlighten you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u5	Minister, I also do not understand that you do not understand my question. Not only has Healthdata made the choice of pseudonymous data and not of non-aggregated data, and moreover, you confirm that your choice was based on pseudonymized data. That's too bad, Minister. You are the spokesperson for ehealth and you yourself have not taken the measure of the stakes related to this technical question but nevertheless essential.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u6	It is true that the question of anonymity comes back at different levels and it will come back in the days that come through other questions. Perhaps it would be interesting to have a moment to understand this technicality. We do not understand these subjects in this very technical field because we are not specialists in this field. Is the system in place different from what we think it is through the texts? It would probably be interesting and wise to address these technical issues in committee in order to see how far there is respect for anonymity or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u7	Madam President, there is no problem in inviting technicians in this area to enlighten you. I have been attending this committee for 17 years and these are the same discussions about anonymisation each time. I also attach great importance to this, but your fear is really based on a lack of understanding of the method we are working with. I am at your disposal to invite technicians to come and explain the management of this matter to this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u8	I will make this proposal to the committee and we will see if we include this in our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u9	We are no longer part of the question, but of how we can organize future work. If we do that, Madam President, I would ask that we also be able to receive independent experts, including independent doctors who have mastery of this technology, and that we not only redo the debate on eHealth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u10	We will discuss this when we reflect on the organization of the work of this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u11	I have already mentioned it here, but this is also a key issue in the Advisory Committee on Scientific and Technological Innovation. So I don't know why we need to repeat the discussion here. It is a very technical discussion that can actually be conducted perfectly there. These matters are dealt with there and the experts are invited there. I would like to invite all those present to come to that committee and discuss the matter there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u12	The big data meeting had been postponed because of the strike in Belgocontrol. As I understand the agenda presented by Mr Foret, this item is postponing at the end of the year. We will of course be able to bring the two groups together.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u13	Madam Minister, the Belgian Paediatric Society has pleaded, at its annual congress, for the recognition of subspecialties. Currently, three sub-specialties are already recognized: pediatric hematology and oncology, neonatalogy and neurology. Others, such as gastroenterology, pneumonology, nephrology and cardiology, are still not. This means, therefore, that there is no recognized training program for these specialties. Surprisingly! Let's take the nephrology that I know pretty well! On the one hand, the state makes requirements for nephropediatrics in relation to certain types of programs and, on the other hand, does not officially recognize them. Admit it's paradoxical, though! The question of recognition is essential in that the issue is the quality of care provided to our children. Your spokesperson spoke saying that you were busy on this issue, and that you were going to seek expert advice. Minister, do you intend to recognize these different sub-specialties? What work have you already done in recognizing these sub-specialties? How long could this file be completed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u14	Mrs Fonck, the Conseil supérieur des médecins spéciales et des médecins généralistes gave me five opinions concerning the creation of professional qualifications for paediatricians. These include gastroenterology, pneumonology, nephrology, endocrinology and pediatric cardiology. For these five highly specialized competencies, the members of the Council confirmed the importance of specific training leading to a particular professional qualification. As you know, the Council has issued several opinions on a whole series of professional titles. In the course of this year, I will give priority to cases such as the reform of the Health Care Professions Act (Royal Decree No. 78), the general criteria for the accreditation of specialist doctors, the services and trainers, legal psychiatry, dermatology, clinical genetics, psychiatry and interventional neuroradiology. Before I begin the dossier of the new level 3 titles, the paediatric subspecialties, I would like to examine in depth the opinion, and above all to analyse the real needs for subspecialties, and to see where they are located. I also note that in the Royal Decree of 2 April 2014 laying down the standards to be met by a child care programme in order to be approved, these sub-specialties are only mentioned in the tertiary care programme, which is very specialized. It is therefore a very small group of paediatricians often active in the academic community, and in a multidisciplinary setting par excellence. Finally, I will not fail to inform the College of Paediatrics on the file, as well as the Royal Academy of Pediatrics. That is why it would be premature to propose a timetable on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u15	Thank you, Madam Minister. You do not commit to a timetable, but do you commit to the fact that these five sub-specialties are actually recognized? I think you should do it. I would like to point out that there are requirements of the State, but at the same time there is a lack of recognition of this particular title at the state level. What a beautiful paradox! On the other hand, I plead that you should move forward before the end of this Parliament. Beyond the demand and re-demand of the Belgian Paediatric Society, qualitative issues for patients, and especially for children, require this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u16	Mr Blanchart is not present and has not indicated anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u17	Madam President, Madam Minister, thanks to Prebeator, an initiative by a number of sports doctors and innovation specialists, every Belgian can have a five-minute preventive heart examination from September to check if there is anything wrong with the heart. The test consists of an electrocardiogram and a questionnaire to be completed by the patient. The processing of the data is carried out by three different doctors, so that three expert advice is available immediately. The total cost would be around EUR 30. I am not entirely sure, but it seems to me the same kind of screening that is being carried out when an ambulance is called for urgent intervention, with a similar device for an electrocardiogram. The debate on mandatory heart screening among young people has already taken place. It would cost too much money and the test would never provide 100% certainty. However, Prebeator's initiative shows that the cost of heart screening does not have to be so high and that three expert opinions can be more conclusive. Despite the fact that 1 in 100 000 young Belgians die every year from cardiac arrest, you indicated that you are not available for mandatory heart screening. You rightly call it an illusion to think that we can avoid any death, but it is an instrument to avoid a number of deaths, especially among young people. Is there any commitment to information? Is there cooperation with the Ministers for Education and Sport at Flemish level to find out how to prevent such deaths? In addition, the installation of automatic external defibrillators (AED) in public places would also save a lot of lives. How do you feel about Prebeator's initiative? What are you offering as an alternative to mandatory preventive heart screening? How do you feel about mandatory first aid lessons and installing more automatic external defibrillators in public places?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u18	Madam President, Minister, my question has a bit of a different approach and is about screening young athletes. The KCE is not in favour of this and is therefore in an exceptional position, which has recently been noted by a scientific journal. A quarter of those athletes with increased risk would not be noticed by this screening. What is your position? Are you for or against systematically required screening of young athletes? Do you support the results of the investigation of the KCE? There is some doubt about that research; some are questioning it, so I would have liked to know your position. Do you intend to investigate new tests to improve their reliability? What measures do you want to take for young athletes?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u19	Madam President, Mrs De Coninck, Mrs Dedry, the initiative of Professor-Doctor Kris Vander Velpen, the driving force behind Prebeator, is known to me. The organisation visits companies, sports clubs or sporting events where their nurses take an EKG. The amateur athlete also fills out a questionnaire. You said it already, it won't take five minutes. The EKG is analysed by an IT system and a number of independent sports doctors. In case of potentially detected problems, a referral to a cardiologist will follow. The question is whether this method is in line with good medical practice and evidence based practice. In this context, I would indeed like to refer to the KCE report No. 241 Cardiovascular Pre-Participation Screening in Young Athletes of 2015. This document examines the meaning of heart screening, both medically, ethically and economically. The general conclusion is that sudden death due to a heart defect in a young athlete during a sports activity is very rare, but very tragic. Measures to prevent this would therefore be more than welcome. A systematic medical heart screening therefore seems very reasonable at first sight. However, this seemingly logical approach caused much controversy, because there is no reliable evidence of effectiveness. In other words, it is not known whether a general screening can really save lives, although we know that such screening will encourage a lot of people not to exercise, not to be active. This month, the KCE study was also published in the British Medical Journal 2016, after the magazine obtained advice from US, UK and Australian authorities on this issue. This confirms that the KCE study is considered scientifically reliable and of high quality. By the way, the High Health Council came to a similar conclusion earlier in its opinion 8 861 of 2013 and also emphasised the need for basic life support. I'm a big supporter of first aid classes. As you know, inclusion of these objectives in the final terms falls within the competence of the Minister of Education of each state. I have already heard from Mrs Crevits that she is in favour of this. I will also ask the new Minister of Education, Marie-Martine Schyns. I haven't had the opportunity yet. It's just been installed. As you know, I was a co-author of the law of 12 June 2006, along with Mrs Avontroodt, who intended to allow automatic defibrillators. We saw that all over the country back then. We were only allowed to do that by paramedics and doctors. This law allowing automatic external defibrillators to be operated by laymen was an important milestone for the appearance of these yet life-saving devices in the public domain. Pursuant to Article 11 of the Executive Royal Decree of 21 April 2007, the owner is required to notify the apparatus to the Directorate-General for Basic Health and Crisis Management at the Public Health Office. For the future, it will be examined how this registration can be made even more efficient. The current status of the FPS People's Health database shows that 6 512 automatic defibrillators have already been registered. I would also like to point out that preventive screening is not really my competence. My fellow Members from the Länder are responsible for this. There may be other ways to do an efficient screening, a finer screening, so that the people who are really at risk are taken out instead of worrying thousands of people on the basis of supposed problems that they will never have to deal with, but which will result in them barely being able to move. I would also like to point out that top athletes do not undergo screening once, but several times a year. Especially during transfers they undergo very heavy heart function tests, but also there are those who slip through the meshes of the net and still get cardiac arrest during or after a training or match. I therefore believe that there should be a more efficient scientific way of screening and that we may be able to save lives.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u20	Madam Secretary, I took the driver's exam last year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u21	To go on vacation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u22	No. One of the requirements for receiving such a driving licence is that one undergoes an electrocardiogram in advance. I wonder whether a combination of Community-level initiatives, education, CLBs and medical examinations..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Such screening costs only EUR 30. We must do this not only for athletes but also for children, so that we have advice for various activities. We must work beyond the borders of the Communities and the federal level, including in the context of prevention. It is said here that such screening costs EUR 30. If one negotiates such a package well and it is structurally interwoven in policy, then it must be cheaper. After all, the pennies are still an important argument. It's too expensive, but I think we can do something about it. I'm just gonna consider this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u23	Madam Minister, I am pleased that you joined the KCE because that was also my position. I also agree with you that better scientific screening and a different, new method should be pursued. Now there is insufficient effectiveness. I hope you will facilitate this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u24	Joined Questions Nos 10249 and 10386 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin and Mr Danie Senesael are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u25	Madam Chair, Minister, on February 3, I was asking you about the shortage of general practitioners. On that occasion, I referred to a report by the KCE which stated that "the indicators concerning the current availability of human resources in the field of general medicine and nursing question the ability of the system to meet future health needs related to demographic change". In the face of the first-line care needs which are not the same everywhere, but which are nevertheless crucial in some places, some, in particular doctors, suggest the creation of a new profession of front-line medical practice assistant, while others, including the General Union of Belgian Nurses (UGIB), propose to deepen collaboration with nurses in the general practitioner's office and to work towards a shift in the workload from the general practitioner to the nurses, as the skills profile and role of nurses fully meet the existing needs. Minister, have you been aware of the proposal to create this new profession of "first-line medical practice assistant" and of the UGIB's proposal for an alternative to this new profession? How do you position yourself against these different proposals? Have you initiated consultations with representative associations of general practitioners and nurses on measures to be put in place to support the first line of care? Has there been a consultation with your counterparts, the Ministers of Health of the federated entities, on the implementation of the first line of care? If so, could you inform us about the conclusions of this consultation by imagining that discussions have already taken place at the Interdepartmental Conference? If not, would it not be appropriate to include this topic on the agenda of the next Interdepartmental Conference on Public Health?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u26	Minister, my question is the same as Mrs Fonck's. I will place it in the light of the changes under way. Indeed, the Royal Decree of 1978 was replaced by the Act of May 2015. How will the tasks between front-line actors be redistributed? In this case, what is your inspiration from the doctor's request to recognize the profession of front-line medical practice assistant? Nurses' associations have expressed their opposition to this request because some of the tasks listed fall within their remit. On the other hand, they suggest an interest in the profile of nurses working for general practitioners. The UGIB-AUVB-AKVB (General Union of Nurses of Belgium) also reports that the University of Antwerp will open, together with other higher schools, training as a general practitioner's nurse, and not as a front-line medical practice assistant. Minister, how do you position yourself against these changes to reorganize – perhaps not in the best way possible – the first line?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u27	Ms. Fonck and Ms. Gerkens, your questions suggest that the Medical Practice Assistant has several professional profiles of skills and functions. This ranges from administrative and logistical support in a medical practice, group or individual and front-line, to professional assistance covering technical acts, or even related to nursing. This function is financed by the Impulse Fund 3, now under the responsibility of the Communities following the transfer of powers that took place in 2014. Following the many questions related to front-line practice assistance, I requested a coordinated opinion on this matter from the Higher Council of Specialists and General Practitioners, the Federal Council of Nurses and the National Council of Paramedical Professions. I await these three opinions in order to take a clear position. The first line is now a regional competence. Mrs Fonck, of course we are going to consult with the relevant regional ministers. It is inevitable to go through the Inter-Ministerial Conference to establish protocols and conclude agreements with them. These three opinions will be very different. We will be able to draw a good summary for a clear vision. As we are working on the 1978 Royal Decree, we will clearly indicate their position in this model.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u28	Minister, we have to wait for these three opinions. That seems obvious to me. I call for you to prepare this item on the agenda of the Interdepartmental Conference on Health. Some see opposition in the positions that have been expressed on the one hand by general practitioners and on the other hand by nurses via the UGIB. Personally, I see convergence as the opposite. I really believe that it is possible to establish an intelligent and fruitful collaboration that integrates nurses at the firm level, allowing this indispensable support for the work of the general practitioner. This is all the more important because, in the years to come, beyond the medical aspects as such, this collaboration will be necessary for the needs related to the prolongation of life. This can be an interesting model, based on everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u29	Minister, having asked for these opinions is the right way to proceed. Indeed, a reflection is under way on the complementarity between the different front-line health professionals, which respects the specificities and allows multidisciplinary network practices. Only one element still disturbs me. I do not know when the opinions will be delivered. A training course will begin in September at the University of Antwerp. On several occasions we have already had training of health professionals for professions whose title was not recognized in the decree. In this way, we found ourselves with trained people who could not practice as part of possible INAMI reimbursements/coverage. I would find it interesting that the agendas can coincide and that, in addition to the Ministers of Health of the federated entities, contact be established with the Ministers of Higher Education so that the situation is clear, in any case in relation to those who would join the formations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u30	Question No 10351 by Mrs Jadin is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u31	Figures in the answer to a written question show that the number of CT scans decreased in the last five years has increased by 170 000, to 2.2 million last year, if we can continue the six-month figures. International comparisons by, among others, the OECD have also shown us to be the frontrunner for years. The worst thing is that according to a study by the UZ Ghent we are not only the frontrunner in the field of use, but also that we do not deliver the required quality. Increased radiation also means exposure to harmful radiation. In addition, CT scans cost the health insurance very much money. It is more than EUR 250 million per year. It is true, as I read in your reply, that several initiatives have been taken since 2010, such as a campaign for radiologists and for the public, and a protocol agreement in this area. However, the figures show that after so many years these efforts do not produce the desired results. The protocol agreement aims to increase the accessibility of MRI studies and thus reduce the number of CT scans, but international comparisons show that we are already many users for MRI studies. In addition, the study of the UZ Gent, which we expect to update shortly, shows that part of the CT scans would be better replaced by MRI recordings, and that an important part should be replaced by other studies, such as the classic studies or ultrasound examinations. It seems to me that increasing the number of MRI devices is not the only solution. Given the disappointing figures over the last five years, which despite the efforts, such as campaigns and a protocol agreement, which have not changed, I would like to ask what concrete steps you will take to reduce the number of CT scans. You say your pockets have been sewn. Now, this is yet another example that our group is launching in order to achieve a painless saving. In this way, we will not only tackle waste, but will also increase quality, not only thanks to reduced exposure to radiation, but also by carrying out the most appropriate scientifically substantiated studies. It also means savings for the patient and health insurance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u32	Mrs Van Camp, the increasing number of CT tests is also a great concern for me. I have therefore taken a number of measures, which are not yet shown in the figures, because they are very recent. A number of measures have already been taken in this area before my term of office. For example, the protocol agreement on medical imaging is currently being implemented. The registration of heavy medical equipment in a national register, in particular of CT, MRI and hybrid devices, is in progress and will be completed for the second half of this year as far as existing devices are concerned. In the first half of this year, a new regulation will also enter into force, which provides that invoicing is only possible for any research carried out with those devices if a unique device invoice number is given at the account, as well as the place where the investigation was carried out. Now that is not the case. An enforcement policy was then developed. The insurance institutions will be able to verify that that number is indeed indicated on the account and that it corresponds to a device duly registered. The allocation of a unique billing number is only possible for those devices that have been correctly registered in the national register and that comply with all the licensing and approval requirements. Certain devices are excluded, such as the so-called black appliances, as well as those supposedly used for scientific research, while they are also used for examinations of patients who are then billed to the government and to the insurance institutions. They will now be used solely for scientific research. So that's an a-priority check. In addition to the a-priority check, an audit system has been set up by the Medical Evaluation and Control Service of the RIZIV. A zero reading has already been performed. The audit is to be repeated at regular intervals. What will that give us? That'll get us outliers. These are the healthcare professionals who are doing too much performance in the use of CT and MNR. They will, of course, be subject to targeted checks. More specific questions can also be addressed through the audit. The data obtained through the Inter-Mutualist Agency can help to answer these questions. I am thinking here of mapping certain combinations of studies in certain specific pathologies, where a lot of medical imaging is prescribed and repeated, as in patients with back problems. As you rightly point out, the increase in the number of MRI devices is not the only solution to reduce the number of CT tests. The numbers prove that, too. For example, if this results in both a CT study and a MNR study, while that is not indicated, there is still a problem. The combination and sequence of studies, not only CT and MNR studies, but also other studies within medical imaging, is one of the subjects that should be investigated and monitored. In addition, a new nomenclature will be in force in the foreseeable future, allowing a distinction to be made between CT studies carried out in PET studies, particularly in oncological patients and other ordinary CT studies. We will therefore be able to make a distinction, because we know that the number of oncological patients is increasing. Now we have one figure for everything and we do not know how the normal CT tests go down or whether they remain status quo. The other tests are in there. New nomenclature numbers have been created for this purpose, which allows us to follow the distinction. A follow-up of the evolution of CT studies will thus be possible, regardless of the evolution which, as already mentioned, is due to an increase in PET studies. The PET studies will indeed increase, on the one hand, the extension of PET programming and, on the other hand, the expected increase in oncological patients, for which most of the PET studies are conducted with CT studies, since 1 January 2016. I must also point out that the effect of all the measures mentioned, which have been implemented or are in progress, can only be visible after some time. I therefore hope that the next figures will give a better picture of the registration for 2016. After all, it takes a full year to reflect this in RIZIV data. The collection of information from data from the Inter-Mutualist Agency and from targeted research questions that can be addressed by this means also takes some time. In the meantime, additional measures are being considered to strengthen the actions already launched. Of course, I am also counting on the results of the policy of tightening up, which hopefully makes caregivers think twice before applying for too many consecutive examinations for a patient. In this context, I would like to point out that too few studies are probably not good for a patient, but too much is certainly not. There is therefore a need for caution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u33	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I am very pleased to hear that new measures are being taken and that we are in line with the fact that only the increase in the number of MRI devices is not the only solution. We are very curious about the effect and we will follow up on the issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u34	Madam Secretary, the health survey is running broadly every three years. The latter dates back to 2013. I'm just wondering when there's gonna be a new one. Is it running yet? What's the budget for that? Who's paying for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u35	Mrs Van Camp, a next health survey is planned for 2018. The organisation of the Health Survey in 2018 shall be governed by a protocol agreement between the Federal Government and the authorities referred to in Articles 128, 130 and 135 of the Constitution. This protocol agreement was already approved at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on 21 March 2016. The protocol agreement, like the previous agreement, provides for the organisation of a five-year health survey. I'll give you the calendar. The preparatory work shall be carried out in the calendar year 2017. In the calendar year 2018 the fieldwork is actually done, so the survey. In the calendar year 2019, the data will be analysed and published according to the rhythm determined by the clients. The protocol agreement provides for the total budget of the 2018 Health Survey to be set at EUR 1 816 829. So that's exactly what it's gonna be. In short, EUR 1.8 million is involved. For financing, the following key was determined by the sponsors: the federal government pays 51.6 %, the Flemish Community 23.4 %, the Walloon Region 15.4 %, the Joint Community Commission 5.7 % and the French Community Commission 3.9 %.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u36	Thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u37	Madam President, Minister, you have allocated money in the budget to organise the reimbursement of the freezing of eggs from young women who need chemotherapy or who need to bridge a disease. As you know, we are very enthusiastic about this. We believe that this is a very social measure, in the sense that today only women with the necessary financial resources can make that choice if they are in need of chemotherapy. At present ova are also frozen for subsequent implantation for reasons other than health. My questions are as follows. Where do you stand on the drafting of the legislation? Who will be able to benefit from this refund, in other words what will be the criteria used?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u38	Madam President, Mrs Jiroflée, under the 2016 budget, a budget of EUR 4 million has indeed been allocated for the new policy of uncofreeing. These include the removal and cryopreservation of ova, semen or tissue fragments of ovaries or testicles in non-sexy persons suffering from cancer and requiring chemotherapy, in order to preserve fertility for better times. My cabinet is indeed in negotiations with representatives of the College of Medicine for the Reproductive Medicine and RIZIV care programme with a view to concreteising this project, i.e. the method of financing, the conditions, etc. You're asking who's gonna enjoy it. Well, it is true that this is strictly intended for medical situations where people's treatment has a major impact on fertility. For example, chemotherapy has a gonadotoxic effect. The removals and treatments associated with fertility and reproduction shall be carried out only in a centre of reproductive medicine. This seems to me to be normal, since the possible subsequent use should also be made in such a centre. We must also be sure that the way in which the onco-freeing is carried out will ensure that the eggs and sperm cells can still be used in a normal manner later on. So we are talking about a small but still very important group of people. I think it is wrong that people who face cancer, but still want to keep the hope of a family, should have to pay for it themselves so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u39	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I am glad that, as far as I can see, you see it in the same direction as we do, so that reimbursement would be reserved for those who have to have such treatment carried out for medical reasons. I'm just missing the timing. I do not know exactly when you were planning to land in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u40	The budget is foreseen for 2016. We are working on this as soon as possible. However, there is a need to meet with all reproductive centres and also with the College of Doctors for Reproductive Medicine. It is a step-by-step process, but we are moving forward as quickly as possible. However, as always, Mrs Jiroflée, I do not announce anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u41	I shall come back to that, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u42	Madam President, Minister, on Tuesday, March 22, 2016, our country was hit by attacks at Zaventem Airport and Maelbeek Metro Station. Unfortunately, the death toll was very heavy, with 32 dead and more than 300 injured. The latter were distributed to 48 Belgian hospitals, almost one in five Belgian hospitals, as well as to two other hospitals abroad. These figures speak for themselves: the relief services have had to cope with an exceptionally serious and complex situation to manage, with a significant flow of people to be rescued and cared for. I would also like to pay tribute to the work and courage of men and women, military, police, firefighters, civil protection, doctors, paramedics, health workers, nurses and ordinary civilians, who have assisted the victims. During these tragic events, the Hospital Service Alert Plan, commonly referred to as the MASH Plan, was initiated in the hospitals concerned. This plan, which all hospitals in the country are obliged to establish, enables them to cope with an influx of victims from outside the country. Minister, following these attacks, what is your assessment of the initiation and implementation of the MASH plan in the institutions concerned? Is this overall satisfactory? Have any avenues for improving emergency arrangements been identified and, in so doing, have any measures already been identified by your services? More generally, what are your findings from the country-wide work and coordination of relief services? Have the transmission of information and the speed of execution of support been up to the protocols set by your services? Here too, have you identified areas for improvement? To close my speech, I would like to make it clear that my questions are not intended to question the quality of the work that has been done by the actors on the ground, which I wish once again to welcome. However, I believe that it is appropriate to mention the means that could be deployed to further improve the capacity of those actors to act and react.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u43	Mr Calomne, I would like to join you in your thanks to the actors on the ground. I, too, once again express my admiration for their daily dedication and especially during this tragic 22 March. The launch of the various plans that the MASH plan allowed us to duplicate SMUR functions, to strengthen emergency services, to release operating units and to take care of the 324 victims that day. With regard to the MASH plan, I can tell you that within the administration, a working group was already looking at its improvement. The experience of 22 March will certainly be taken up in the works. We're taking stock with the hospitals. We asked them to provide us with all the necessary data. Since MASH plans are hospital standards and after the sixth reform of the State, the federated entities have jurisdiction in this area, they no longer fall under federal jurisdiction. Nevertheless, a consultation with the federated entities must ensure the survival of these plans as they demonstrated their need on 22 March. After the attacks in Paris, my administration immediately took initiatives to update the Medical Intervention Plan, the IMP, which remains federal. In collaboration with the Medical Directorates of Centres 112 and the Federal Health Inspectors, my Administration has drawn up the strategic lines of a "Maxi Medical Intervention Plan", a medical intervention plan for attacks and simultaneous disasters at several sites. Unfortunately, we were inspired by what happened in Paris in November. This plan is not yet described in detail, but the concept is clear and effective when it was implemented on 22 March. We asked hospitals for a whole range of information but also to do simulations. Many did so and on the same day, it helped to avoid the panic generated by such events. The first assessment is more than satisfactory. But by drawing up the balance sheets and identifying possible avenues for improvement, we will be able to do even better the day when such a tragedy should hit our country again, which I absolutely hope not. We said we had to get ready. We're considering a worst case scenario. Let's hope it's never necessary. Unfortunately, on March 22, it was unexpected. We knew that a second attack was often carried out after a first. This is how we designated hospitals first in the North and then in Brussels. It was a nightmare for all who were involved. I hope this never happens again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u44	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Indeed, as you say in conclusion of your speech, we hope that this will not happen again, but we must remain prepared. The echoes I've had told me that things have gone relatively well. However, I wanted to ask you the question. Despite the panic, we were able to manage the situation because an anticipation had taken place. The conclusions of these attacks must be drawn in order to further improve the situation if, unfortunately, it were to happen again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u45	Madam Minister, I have already asked you a question about the reimbursement of IVD debt. However, I still have a number of specific questions on this subject. You stated that the reimbursement of clinical biology is a completely different procedure from that of medicinal products, and that the IVDs are concerned with the purpose of the investigation. I didn't quite understand what the difference is with a cure. That's what this is all about, isn't it? If an application is submitted for the reimbursement of a blood pressure reduction, isn't the purpose of lowering blood pressure? Maybe I misunderstood your answer. You indicated that part of the fee is intended for the professional because he is carrying out the test to achieve the expected goal. Again, I wonder in what sense that is different from the prescriber who will also prescribe a particular medicine in order to achieve an expected goal, such as lowering blood pressure. Wouldn't it make more sense to work out a similar procedure for IVDs, as it exists for medicinal products? Why is that, or why not? You said that there is no refund procedure, but also that in certain circumstances repayment is possible. How exactly is that determined? By who? Which IVDs are reimbursed to date? How exactly was that determined and by whom? You said that in certain circumstances repayment can be provided for, but also that there is no register of refunds. How is that possible? Madam Minister, I would also like to ask why a firm would invest in a new innovative test if there is no refund dossier such as for medicines. For example, there will be less investment in innovation. Nor are the investments protected by IVD debt instruments, for example through a patent. What is your specific answer to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u46	Mrs Van Camp, the reimbursement of medicines is regulated according to a transparent procedure which you know well. As you yourself point out in your example, a blood pressure lowering medicine is taken with the aim of lowering blood pressure. The medicinal product has an immediate therapeutic objective. On the other hand, an IVD is used to provide the health care provider with more information on the underlying cause of the increase in blood pressure. The test may then allow the initiation of a more targeted treatment. The lab itself weighs off which IVDs are used to perform a particular test. As a result of the future pact for patients with the pharmaceutical industry and the Medical Technologies Pact whose negotiations are still ongoing but are in a final stage, I am working in the next few months on a procedure for the registration and modification of the fee for testing with an evaluation and set deadlines. That Medical Technologies Pact is, by the way, a similar pact with the medical devices sector. A distinction is made between the procedure for refunding IVDFs linked to a drug called joint assessment partner diagnostic, and those that are not linked to a drug. For IVDFs used to select patients with an expected positive response to a medicinal product, their use and development is closely linked to the development of innovative medicinal products. It is important that the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products should be able to monitor the development of medicines and partner diagnostics in parallel and, for example, to provide scientific advice covering both aspects. Since a procedure is being developed for the partner diagnostics that will run together with the innovative medicinal product to which it is linked, these tests may also be given a nomenclature number. It is not because no refund dossier can now be submitted for a specific IVD test carried out by a specific firm, that they cannot yet be used in laboratories, possibly with or without reimbursement. The aim is therefore to set a price not only for innovative medicines but also for the partner diagnostics. Otherwise, in one case, one or the other will be paid back, or one without the other. Then that problem is still not settled. So we are going to develop the so-called parallel pathways for the application and treatment of the IVDs, the partner diagnostics and also for the innovative medicine involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u47	Madam Minister, that is reassuring, unlike your previous reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u48	Mrs Van Peel, you are asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u49	Madam President, either we put together the questions and the question of the emergency services now, or we postpone them to a next committee meeting. With all due respect, I had to leave five minutes ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u50	Madam President, I would like to ask my question. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). This morning, I apologized to the board of directors of the KCE for asking that question. I respect colleagues who are a little late, but the sitting has been going on for an hour and a quarter of an hour. I would have a very big problem with the further postponement of this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u51	I just sent him a message telling him that it was becoming difficult to hold on.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u52	Madam President, with all due respect, either we postpone the question until the next sitting or I put it now. Otherwise, I'm gonna veto it. I had to be gone five minutes ago. I was here when I was supposed to be there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u53	Mrs. Muylle, don't you want to postpone your question? [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u54	The next committee meeting with oral questions will take place next Wednesday. We will continue with the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u55	Madam President, I actually have two questions about emergency services and waiting services. Can I combine them? Good. Madam Minister, the survey on mandatory night visits on watch shows that 87% of Flemish doctors and 95% of French-speaking doctors are in favour of abolishing this obligation. I experienced in Antwerp myself that a lot of general practitioners are afraid to go out alone at night. Systems have been developed to do this more securely, for example with drivers driving them around. However, I note that this system also extends to non-urban areas. There is, however, something to say for abolishing those mandatory night visits. On the other hand, patients are, of course, entitled to help if necessary. Furthermore, the signal is constantly being given that one should not go too quickly to the emergency and that one should first see the general practitioner. I have experienced that a lot of people, especially with a migration background, do not know the general practitioner's system. They often wait a long time before they seek help. With their background, this means going to the hospital, to the emergency room. I would like to ask a number of questions about all these elements together. I also have experience in starting a general practitioner's ward. We did the Palphine in Merksem, right next to the emergency. There one can then do a kind of triage and prevent people from going too quickly directly to the emergency. What are your views on the reform of the watch stations and the emergency services, which you want to achieve? When can we expect new initiatives? What actions will you take to optimise the operation of the watchkeeping service? Will you also take the safety aspect with you? What is the situation with regard to number 1733? Is that matched to the 911 calls yet? Is the entire territory covered yet? What are your views on the 24/7 post permanence and a mandatory integration model of sentry/poverty? What do you mean, in concrete terms, by better cooperation and coordination between the various emergency services and general practitioners' guards? What initiatives are on the agenda? Is there also work being done to sensitise citizens about the proper use of emergency services? Are there any examples of initiatives taken by hospitals themselves and any evaluations of them?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u56	Madam Chair, Minister, this is an important and burning issue. The aim is to ensure the care of doctors, not to send patients directly to hospital emergencies. These are debates that we have already had in committee. There are solutions. The whole thing is to have the right solutions, to be able to apply them throughout the country and to have a fairly large coverage. I listened to my colleague's speech. I'm not going to repeat what she just said. However, Madam Minister, you have announced that you are laying down new criteria for the custody position. I would of course like to come back to this point with you and draw your attention to rural areas. I've already told you about it. We must deal with this issue in a different way depending on where we are, whether in Brussels or in my very small commune in Ouffet. Since the areas are a little different, different criteria will have to be applied. Minister, do you have an agenda for developing the new criteria for on-call medical positions? Will you consult the different areas for the development of the new criteria? Will you take into account the rural environment and its particularities in the development of the new criteria? Have you ever thought about how to work in practice? Will there be a unique number? Will the doctor have to organize themselves, as is already the case in some pilot projects that are taking place in certain areas of our country? Finally, communication to citizens will be crucial. How will you manage this so that the entire population is aware, can find solutions with us and have quality service when it has to go to the doctor during the guards, outside of normal hours?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u57	Minister, this is an inquiry because the subject matter is of importance to all patients, but also because you have managed to achieve the unanimity of the doctors against you since the common front of the medical unions and associations of circles of general medicine has positioned itself and drafted an open letter to your attention. This open letter is widely argued and some excerpts are intriguing. I quote: "The firm's vision of the organization of custody does not take into account the experience and efforts of the base that it has shown for several years when we believe that the working group itself is a good basis for further negotiation." I quote another excerpt: "The arguments and solutions put forward by the trade unions and the circles of general medicine are simply swept away by the firm to make way for a vision that puts the hospital at the centre of the organisation of health care". Minister, you are probably going to refer to the KCE report. I would also like to hear from you on this report as there have been two meetings of the Board of Directors required for it to be approved. This does not happen often and it raises questions. In addition, at the same time, your firm conducted the same analyses to arrive at the same conclusions. It is therefore felt that the firm first positioned itself to influence the analysis of the KCE. In the background, what is your model? You want to impose a uniform model by installing 24-hour, seven-day-a-seven, 24-hour, 24-hour, general medical duty stations. The imposition of this uniform model is the worst of the worst! First of all, because bringing everything back to the hospital is a mistake. And imposing a single model is just as much a mistake because reality is plural between cities and rural and semi-rural areas, but also depending on the forces involved. The forces in the presence of general practitioners vary from one location to another. Partnerships also depend on how hospitals are organized. In the same region, some of them operate according to a more flexible and logical synergy, which corresponds to the expectations of the generalists' circles. Guards can thus be organized by the latter, because their model is in keeping with reality. Minister, my inquiry is aimed at raising the alarm in this area, because the uniform model you are defending does not correspond to the reality on the ground. I therefore ask the government and the majority who support it to look at this issue again. Your project must be based on the plural reality of the circles of general practitioners. That is why you need to put in place a mechanism in consultation with them. Yes, models will vary according to regions and boroughs. Thus the organisation of the guards will be efficient and of quality for the patients. It is this objective that must guide your decision, not the imposition of a rigid model.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u58	Madam Minister, much has already been said and I will try to be brief. The problem is clear. There is the improper use of the emergency services, as the figures prove. In reply to a written question, you have just given me figures on this, which also clearly show regional differences: in the south of the country the misuse is much greater. The centralisation of primary care by the general practitioner is much less common there, which proves that the two problems are related. A solution is not obvious. The possible solution in the KCE report, integrating the sentries into the emergency services, seems to be a good idea at first sight. That seems to be the way to triage at the entrance. Apparently, there are a lot of patients who always end up there in the first place, and that is sometimes understandable when it comes to acute concern, which is therefore not always justified. The doctors' organisations are not wrong to say that if we make this choice, it will also have consequences for the centralisation of primary care, which we strongly believe in in the north of the country and on which the government wants to continue to make a strong commitment under the government agreement. How exactly do you see it now that you have the report from the KCE? Are you thinking of some sort of "gate doctors"? That idea has already been suggested by my party, to make the triage at the hospital entrance better happen. Then where do you see the sentry? After all, I continue to believe strongly in that system. In certain areas, these sentries may best be very close to hospitals. I do not know whether to make this a general model for the whole country. I've already had an exchange of views with you on the call number 1733. The further roll-out should also be able to cope to a large extent with the problem. In any case, it will be a matter of bringing the three systems together. The question remains how to make referral sufficiently binding in one way or another to ensure that it is inevitable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u59	Madam Minister, in view of the questions put by my fellow Members, I can leave out a piece of my introduction. The recommendation of the KCE that a general practitioner's guard should be able to operate autonomously, independently of the emergency services. I think that's where the key is. If the general practitioners have to hire a local hospital to organize their guard station, is that hospital their landlord and to what extent can that autonomy be guaranteed? With regard to a central gateway with a triage zone, I have the same questions as my fellow Members. How will this be organised? Will there be someone there who is trained for the first line or for the third line? This makes a difference for the patients who arrive at the GP's post instead of in the classic emergency department. In any case, we do not want to sacrifice the achievements of the GPs, especially in Flanders, for efficiency measures on the emergency services of hospitals. How will you guarantee that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u60	Madam Minister, I would like to clarify a little, because I, as a Member of Parliament, was present during the discussions of the report on the Board of Governors of the KCE. I think that this study has an incredible added value in the discussion, because it objects to what has long been suspected on the basis of good figures. There are too many emergency services today and far too many patients go to the emergency room. Despite the fact that there have been a number of GPs in our country for the past seventies, the number of patients who immediately go to the emergency service is increasing. 40% of these patients can easily be treated by a general practitioner. What's new to me is that people go to the emergency service especially during the day, from 7:00 to 7:00 and not at night or at weekends. If we know that one in two doctors do not have 55 contacts a day and do not even manage to have six night contacts, the question arises as to whether a high-quality care can be provided to patients who come immediately to the emergency service. There are all kinds of problems: the doctors who need to be called do not show up; the patient ends up with an unknown doctor; he or she is often referred or has to come back in the next few days. I have heard far too little about the importance of the patient in the previous discussions. I am convinced that the emergency services are failing in quality today. The study, which I approved on the board of directors of the KCE, concludes that there should be rationalization and specialized, while maintaining accessibility and quality. In my view, it is indeed a good proposal to work with emergency medical services and to organise a triage there, so that the patient is put in the right place for proper medical care. This means that funding must also be adjusted and the penalties for primary medicine treatment or emergency services must be brought into line. I am convinced that the issue needs a very broad discussion, and the report is a first step in this direction. This debate should also include the organisation of urgent medical transport, emergency numbers 1733 and 112, hospital funding and the organisation of our hospital landscape. We believe very strongly in primary care and are in favour of its development, and this does not have to be a contradiction for the organisation of emergency services. On the contrary, it's an en-en-story. We opt for general practitioners as part of a strong primary health care alongside general practitioners in emergency wards, where a triage can happen. The spokesperson of the BVAS spoke of primary stupidity. That is what was said on the board of directors and in the press. So I'm allowed to repeat them here. BVAS fears that the general practitioners should take a primary place in second-line health care, take over the hospital and make it a place for primary health care. I really don't want to think about models. After all, I am convinced that the study really has many good points and offers added value. The study is part of the discussion on the issue of improper use of the emergency service, which is also linked to many other issues. Madam Minister, at the two meetings of the Governing Board, I can testify to that and support your statement - no influence whatsoever from your cabinet. We had a very good discussion. I must confess that not all parties had equally valid arguments. I have also heard a lot of arguments that were mainly related to funding and self-interest and that were not related to the organisation or quality, let alone to the patient. It was a good discussion. We have even tried to amend the final decision and the synthesis report and to ensure that this was defined much better. Everyone has also voted according to their own judgment. Mrs. Fonck, I just wanted to make that right. Madam Minister, it is therefore an important step. Like the other Members, I would like to know what you will do with the dossier and what your timing is. I understand that the task force would come forward with an appointment plan by April 2016. What is the state of play in this respect? I am convinced that we must reorganise today. We must go to much less emergency services, with only 30 to 45 minutes between the contact and the emergency service. How do you see that? Madam Secretary, the study is a very important step for me. I hope that you will take this study into account in your policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u61	Minister, I will add a few elements. I am a great defendant of the KCE and the studies he does. I find this report very interesting on the state of affairs of the emergency services and the need to allow for harmonisation, better distribution within the territory, possibly a reduction, etc. It is interesting to have this report and to review the location and timeliness of emergency services. However, it seems to me disturbing to make a recommendation in the recommendations which concerns the first line and which does not concern hospital structures – at the same time, a link must be made, of course – by saying in this report that the guard stations must be integrated into the hospital sites in order to prevent patients from going to the emergency department and going to the guard station instead, and then to criticize the operation of the guard stations by saying that they do not all have the same schedules, the same standards, that they do not all operate in the same way. I find it a little tricky to criticize the organization of the guard stations because they are field initiatives. It is true that they have existed for some time, in some places. In other places, they still don't exist or it's DIY. It is also known that there is work being done to harmonize the operation of these guard stations. Both approaches intersect. I do not want this to lead to inadequacies and non-compliance with the front line partners to address a problem of organisation in the hospital sector. Minister, my questions are as follows. On the one hand, the working group to harmonize shiftwork with their requirements, distributions, etc. should have completed its work. I would like to know whether the work has been completed or whether we will have to wait. On the other hand, I know that some guard stations are already on hospital sites and that they are there, that this corresponds to a territorial logic or practice of moving patients. In other areas, guard stations are closer to population concentrations. It seems to me important to keep these possibilities of adaptation. So I wanted to know whether, in the work with the guard stations, you relay – or want to impose – this requirement of presence on the hospital site or whether forms adapted to reality are allowed? The number 1733 is the tool that can guarantee patient sorting through professional analysis of calls as well as people's orientation. He's still stuck right now when there's an emergency. Where are we now in this regard? I would like to hear you and draw attention to the need to strengthen the first line. All the reports that analyze the organization of health care in us and around the world say that the development of the first line guarantees quality health care. I have the feeling that, in this report, logic has been reversed, which I feel is a pity. That's not acceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u62	Mrs De Coninck, Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, Mrs Fonck, Mrs Van Peel, Mrs Gerkens, Mrs Dedry and Mrs Muylle, eight women's representatives asking questions about general practitioners and guards. It's a great luxury and a real pleasure for me, because it's been different here. When I was sitting here alone as a general practitioner in 1999, there was not much interest in it and this limited itself to some pilot projects and courses. The study of the KCE has caused a lot of fuss. That's the way it's supposed to be. If it is not discussed, it has not achieved its objective. The KCE is independence. Administratively they belong to my services, but for their method of study, their methodology and their conclusions they work completely independently. I've been a member of it for a number of years. I was marked by this room. Mrs Muylle follows me on that. I am pleased that she has said that there has been and will never be any influence on the cabinet on two boards of directors. This dossier consists of very different parts, which of course cannot be separated from each other without losing sight of the impact on the whole. That is why a task force has been set up in my policy cell. The study of the KCE is also analysed very accurately within that task force. This task force consults the general practitioners' syndicates, the emergency services, the scientific associations, the hospitals, the RIZIV, the Public Health Administration and others ad hoc to find a global solution for the future of the unplanned care demand of citizens and patients. Indeed, as planned, a consensus was reached within the Task Force on the agreement plan. That plan was therefore first submitted to the Insurance Committee. If it has been discussed there, with any comments, we can proceed with it. The Working Party on Guard Posts within the RIZIV, which analyses the applications, is also busy dealing with and preparing dossiers for new sentries that can be submitted to the Insurance Committee. It was said that this would be the case by April, and the Insurance Committee is working on it again. As you rightly point out, a good triage is indispensable in the system of non-planable care. Here we are thinking of the further development of medical dispatching, both in the emergency centres 112 and through the integration of 1733 within the medical dispatching. Because we want to achieve this in a sustainable and realistic way, a number of study projects have been set up for this purpose. They will be closely followed by the Task Force. The results will be immediately integrated into the policy so that the roll-out of the integrated model 112-1733 can take place as soon as possible across the entire territory. There is already such a project in progress in the region around Leuven-Tienen. A month and a half ago, I prepared the introduction. An amount was foreseen for the financing. In that project they work with a triage. A project was also planned in Wallonia, but it has not yet started. I have already suggested to the relevant Walloon minister to see if the project can be started. As Mrs Caprasse said, there is a big difference between a rural area and a large city such as Brussels, Malines or Louvain, where there are several hospitals. In recent years, the policy has already made important efforts to improve the safety of general practitioners. I would point out that the safety of general practitioners in general is important not only during the waiting period, but also because of the unfortunate death of a colleague, Dr Roelandt, who was attacked during the day during his work by a patient he knew. We take the safety aspect with us. In the past, measures were also taken for the general practitioners' safety guards. Some were concerned with the financing of transport, if necessary with a driver. In addition, consultations have already been held with Mr Jambon, Minister for Security and Home Affairs. It looks at what measures can be taken to ensure safer working conditions for doctors both during normal working hours and during waiting hours. I therefore prefer to consider the organization of custody from a broader perspective given the organization of unplanned care, both from the physician's and the patient's point of view. It is true that the study shows that not all patients know who they can address a particular problem. At present, it is not always clear to the patient if something unexpected occurs, whether he can address himself to the GP, GP or emergency services. As a result, there is no coordination. Some emergency services therefore have an incredible amount of work, while several of these patients might have been seen by general practitioners. When a patient comes into the emergency room with a very heavy polytrauma, there are all kinds of consequences. For non-urgent cases, the waiting time on an emergency service may then rise for hours. Conversely, there are also emergency services as well as general practitioners' watch stations with too little activity. This is inexplicable and unsustainable, so that we have to question the number of emergency services and whether or not they can be used more efficiently. Of course, account must be taken of the difference between densely populated regions and rural areas, where people are not so close to each other. In order to have a truly constructive dialogue, I have formed a task force within my cabinet. All the doctors' unions are present, Mrs. Fonck. There is not always a common opinion. Following the KCE study, I saw for the first time a joint letter, an open letter. They're in the firm up to three times a week. I see them often enough for them to talk to me about it, but if they prefer to write open letters, it also suits me. A lot of energy has been invested in this task force. A quality dialogue, as indicated in the open letter, is not easy. They have common opinions, but not all the time. They argue with each other too, I can tell you. Every element mentioned in the open letter is already on the agenda of the Task Force and will therefore be taken into account in order to improve our health care system. It is true that it lasted too long, there was nothing coordinated, nothing settled. There were positive projects, duty stations for pilotage physicians. As in three cases, this was going well, it was extended to 35, and up to 48, but without any criteria. This has led to the current situation. Some guard stations are overloaded, others are not used. Emergency stations in hospitals are sometimes overloaded and sometimes not even consulted. An integrated view is required with a number, with a sorting method specified in the pilot project. I attended the presentation, which was very good and in which we are now working. Of course, I wanted the pilot project, for which funding was planned, to be carried out in the Walloon Region as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u63	President: Yoleen Van Camp.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u64	Madam Minister, the many questions and the discussion show that everyone thinks this is a very important item. I will not say that it is very urgent, but I myself have been engaged in this discussion for about ten years. You have a task force and that's very good. If I understand correctly, you have a lot of task forces, because we are also thinking about hospital funding and a vision of the whole health policy. I understand your concern about integrated work, but we have to get started, we cannot continue to study and acquire knowledge. We need to start with a long-term plan, with perspectives, with food and drink for the different parties, taking into account their interests, but also, above all, milestones for the steps to be taken and the points that are being started. The rest will follow from that. I therefore remain a little hungry, but at the same time I wish you much strength to come forward quickly with an integrated plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u65	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I will retain the integrated and comprehensive vision that we must keep an eye on, a unique number in order to filter out calls - which is just as important. In your answer, you have spoken several times about rural areas and different criteria. In this regard, I stress that it is important to realize the reality on the ground that, in these cases, the lack of doctors is sometimes staggering. Action is taken even at the municipal level, I assure you, minister, but sometimes we have to take comprehensive action against these specific criteria.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u66	Madam President, Minister, I wonder what we can join on. We agree, first, on the importance of sorting through number 1733. Second, the general approach to custody must take into account issues related to the safety of general practitioners, demographic change, the shortage of physicians in certain areas and the problems of custody when there is a shortage or on dark nights. We can also join on matching funding to quality criteria. On the other hand, I invite you, beyond the KCE report, to examine the studies which have been carried out, in particular, on the analysis of practice in different countries. A study in particular, published by the British Medical Journal in April 2016, compares the entire emergency dynamics of seven countries. This study points to the interesting fact that when general and emergency medicine are coupled, the use of emergencies increases overall while it is the reverse that we should achieve and then, that it does not necessarily have a positive effect on the queues, on the flow of patients, on the cost and effectiveness or on the satisfaction of the patient. If we compare this dynamic in other countries – and the results are challenging – we realize that this linkage sometimes leads to results that are inverse to the objectives that we logically should want to achieve. So, Madam Chair, I move a motion, which we will have the opportunity to discuss again in plenary, with a series of points on the recognition of general medicine as an essential component of the first line of health care, on tri 1733. But above all, I stress the importance of not imposing a single, standardized model of these day-care stations 24 hours a day, 7 days a week with general practitioners coupled with emergency rooms. I once again insist – there is a common front of the actors on the ground – on the need to take into account a plural reality. This is how we will be most effective, including in relation to patients, starting from a model that is not a top down model but from a bottom up approach. That is how we can move forward. Leaving only the KCE report and having a single model imposed, I repeat, would be the worst of the worst in terms of the organisation of our health care and the dynamics of emergencies and guards. Madam Chair, I now give you this motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u67	Madam Minister, like my fellow Members, and like you, I think this is an important dossier. Important files are often not obvious files. This dossier is important because it has many consequences, not only for the affordability of care but also for the right care for the patient. It is true what our colleague has just said, that we will always have to continue to work on a tailor-made basis and that there will remain regions where the general practitioner's post will rather have to be employed to fill the gaps. In my opinion, it is particularly useful for urban regions to have a strong general practitioner's watch station close to the hospital. A general practitioner's post should not necessarily be located in the hospital because I also see the dangers of this, but it must be close. Madam Minister, I have heard you say that everything must start with sufficient information about patients and citizens. Today there is something wrong with that here and there. That is what we must be committed to in the future. One can also implement a number like 112, with a clear national roll-out, so that people know where to go. I am still a little hungry, and perhaps you too, as to how the triage can be enforced. Hopefully the task force will make that clear soon. I'll follow up on this file with you. There are still a few questions that remain open, but I hope that we will come back to this subject in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u68	Madam Secretary, I too remain a little hungry. You answer fairly carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u69	We're still talking. There is already a consensus on the agreement plan. It is not my custom, before a consensus has been reached, to deal with certain elements of that plan. Of course, we have to take into account what already exists on the ground. For example, there is almost complete coverage of the territory by general practitioners' guards in Wallonia, but far from in Flanders. That's where a catch-up operation has to take place. That is why we have done everything we can to make applications for new posts possible again, but in accordance with certain criteria. Of course, you still have a lot of questions and you're still hungry. I'm not gonna communicate about an agreement until there's an agreement on everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u70	I understand you don't want to anticipate the task force's work. I would like to make one more point: the concern of the general practitioners themselves. I have a lot of contacts with GPs on the field. I believe that there is a great openness among the general practitioners to discuss different ideas. They don't cling stubbornly to the organizational models that exist now. However, I do share their concerns very much. I understand that they want guarantees that their autonomy will be maintained. I would have liked to hear from you that you share that concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u71	Madam Minister, following on from what Mr Dedry just said, I share that concern. After all, I feel a division between a plea for family doctor's services in rural areas, whereas they should be in urban areas in hospitals. It must not be one or the other; one can exist perfectly alongside the other, especially if we know that, in order to monitor quality, we need to increase the region's size. Mr Fonck, you are referring to neighbouring countries. However, I do not think that comparison is easy. Today we have 139 emergency services, 131 of which are financed as a specialised emergency service and 8 as a basic emergency service. Let me compare this with the Netherlands, where there are some emergency services for esophageal cancer and also some specialised emergency services for the paediatric emergency. Considerations concerning the concentration of emergency services must also be made. Today we cannot compare, as we still have to do this exercise. Of course, this fits in with the reorganisation of our hospital landscape, with its funding. Mr Dedry, I feel that there is support, both for the general practitioners, for the hospitals and for the patient organisations. Well, that's a good thing to say. The patient organisations are very much behind that model. Madam Minister, I agree with what you said at the beginning of your reply, in particular that this is a good start. Of course, time is short, and now we must seize every opportunity to come up with a good exercise, although this should not take too long. I am sure you will come up with a good proposal with all the partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-03-54-commissie-ic406x.u72	The Chair: In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms. Catherine Fonck and the response of the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, asks the government - to recognize general medicine as an essential component of the first line of care of our health system; - to set up a genuine consultation with general practitioners and emergency workers in order to find the best solution which must make the service to the population of guarding as efficient as possible outside working hours, with the aim of providing the population with a quality childcare service; - to set up a sort of operational call for applications for care (via the uniform call number 1733) upstream of general medicine and hospital, under the responsibility of the State; - not to impose a standardized model of general medical permanences open 24 hours a day and 7 days a week in or alongside the emergency services of hospitals, but to give the opportunity to general medical circles and hospitals in their region to organise a model of care that corresponds to their specificities." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Catherine Fonck and the reply of the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, asks the government - recognising general medical practice as a fundamental part of primary health care; - to establish full consultation with general practitioners and emergency doctors in order to provide the best solution to ensure that watchkeeping is as efficient as possible outside working hours and thus to provide a high-quality service to the population; - to ensure the triage of operational calls for care (through the central number 1733) before being referred to the general practitioner or hospital under the responsibility of the government; - not to impose a standardized model of general practitioner's watch services 24/7 in or in addition to hospital emergency services, but to enable the general practitioners and hospitals of their region to organise a watch-keeping service corresponding to their specific characteristics." A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Dirk Janssens and Ms. Nathalie Muylle, Ms. Ine Somers and Ms. Valerie Van Peel. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Dirk Janssens and Mrs Nathalie Muylle, Ine Somers and Valerie Van Peel. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
