ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u1	Mrs. Jadin has let you know she can't come.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u2	Madam President, Secretary of State, we learned on 8 March 2016 that last December, the centre responsible for ensuring respect for the fundamental rights of migrants lodged a complaint with the European Commission against the Belgian State because it found three breaches of the Dublin Ill Regulation. Myria accuses you of not distributing correct information to asylum seekers (Article 4), of placing migrants duly registered in other EU countries in a closed centre (Article 28) and, finally, of expelling persons who have appealed against a repatriation order (Article 27). Myria announces that it does not aim at a condemnation of the government, but wants to force you to bring the legislation into line with European rules. Secretary of State, my questions are as follows. What concrete measures are you now implementing to provide correct information to asylum seekers? Is this complaint by Myria such as to make you abandon your initiatives to send letters mentioning approximate information to asylum applicants as you did recently with regard to Iraqis? How many people are currently imprisoned in closed centres when they are duly registered in another EU country? How many were for 2014 and 2015? How many of those who appealed against a repatriation order were actually expelled this year? How many were for 2014 and 2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u3	Madam President, I would like to begin by apologizing for my lateness. I always try to be on time and even too early on the committee, but it didn't work today. For Queen Rania, the only hope of women's rights in the Middle East, I would like to walk two kilometres through Saint Joost's Node. I've already had my migration bath for today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u4	You saw her, didn't you?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u5	I may have seen a lot of Ranias in Saint Joost-ten-Node, but there were headscarfs, not without them. Honourable members, I have the honour to provide you with the following information. I would like to point out that the main purpose of my letters to asylum seekers is to warn them of human traffickers. Since 9 March 2016, a new newsletter has been distributed to asylum seekers and refugee applicants who are still in pre-reception waiting for their registration. In this letter, I stress in particular the lengthy asylum procedure, the temporary nature of the residence permit for refugees, and the lengthy procedure of family reunification. The Foreign Office is in compliance with the Dublin III regulation, as I said a week ago. The objective of the letter of information to refugee candidates is also to draw their attention to the possible consequences of the introduction of asylum applications in several countries. The number of detentions of persons covered by the Dublin III Regulation is very small compared to the number of persons giving rise to a positive response: one hit in Eurodac. Mr Hellings, that number is therefore very small. It's a small number and the last few weeks haven't. I would ask you to abide by the Rules of the House and to table a written question for information on the figures. That's Article 122b. Again, I apologize for my lateness.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u6	Madam Chair, Secretary of State, an excellent bike path connects Saint-Josse and downtown. I advise you. I borrow it regularly. There may be a lot of Rania in St.Josse, but I think there is also much more hope in the Middle East than the Queen of Jordan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u7	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u8	Yes, I'll quote you. On the merits, I will file a written question to obtain the figures. You say the letters are meant to explain the situation. I think not: the letters that you write (there have been three different ones in my memory, in Arabic, English, French and Dutch) are intended not to inform them but to dissuade them from applying for asylum, when they are at a pre-reception stage. I think it is very clearly your objective, a political objective, which is not mine, but it is your objective. You, like your predecessor, boast to pursue a firm and humane policy. You must also pursue a fair policy and, obviously, that is what Myria tells you, your policy does not respect the essential articles (Articles 4, 27 and 28) of the Dublin Regulation. We'll see what the courts and courts will answer to you, as well as to Myria. In any case, I urge you to stress the right dimension of this asylum policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, I know that it is not customary to ask questions about individual cases. That is certainly not my custom, but you will understand that I have no choice. The self-declared democrats claim, on the one hand, that they want to be completely clear about everything related to the attacks in Brussels and Zaventem, on the other hand, they have decided that only the parties with butter on their heads may sit on the Committee of Inquiry. So I am obliged to ask the questions I would have liked to ask there in a different way. This question seems important to me. In a search for Abdeslam, the Algerian Mohamed Belkaid was killed by a sniper. After the attacks, we have already received a very little explanation at a joint committee meeting. There, Minister None has confirmed that Algerian was already known to the police. In 2014 he was arrested in this country, following a theft. So it was an illegal person who committed criminal acts. Did he get a warrant to leave the territory? If so, was it followed up? Were they checked to see if that order was obeyed? Was he locked up in a closed center to be deported? Was he effectively expelled from the country?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u10	It is indeed a personal case, Mr Secretary of State, but I will leave it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u11	I'd like to get into that. I have even discussed an individual dossier in plenary, Madam President, following a question from Mrs Matz. I did not think I should do that at the time and invoke the Rules of Procedure for that purpose, but the President of the Chamber rejected me. It would not apply to media files. This file has also been discussed in the media. I find your question particularly relevant and interesting, Mrs Pas, so I will answer you. It is not only interesting to ask what happens to the people of the attacks. It is also sometimes very interesting to know which nationalities are involved and when they have received exactly which nationality. I'm just giving that as a suggestion. On 7 March 2014, the Metro SPC, the Brussels metro's railway police, indeed prepared an administrative report for the person concerned, on the basis of an attempted theft. It was forwarded to the Foreign Office. On 7 March 2014, there was absolutely no radicalisation or involvement in terrorism. The Foreign Affairs Office issued an order to leave the territory and also issued an entry ban of three years to the person concerned. So he had to comply with that order. The person concerned was not locked up in a closed center, unfortunately, as he is from Algeria. Algeria is a tough customer in terms of removals. You are frustrating me and at least as much, but it is a reality. We do removals to Algeria, but far too little. We are in constant conversation with Algeria. I will see the Algerian Ambassador and the Algerian Consul General in my cabinet at 10 a.m. tomorrow. I hope that this new consul will be a little more benevolent to hand over laissez-passers for, among other things, thieves who live in Belgium without a residence permit and who have been arrested by the police. Unfortunately, that's not always possible. There was a lack of elements to identify the person immediately, which would make the removal a long and particularly difficult process. The whereabouts of the person concerned were unknown. After that, the person concerned was no longer intercepted. It was a one-time interception. The DVZ was not aware of the fact that no action had been taken on the order. I'll admit, I'd rather have him locked up and removed a sturdy pede. Mrs Pas, I can tell you that the government has decided to increase the number of shelters in the closed centres considerably. By 1 June, capacity will have increased by 50%, at 18 months. That's not enough. I fully follow the opinion of my Director-General, who advocates more than 1 000 reception places. That's for discussion with the government. I hope to be able to give more news to the Chamber this week or next week. At that time, the person concerned was certainly not known for radicalisation or terrorism. Those who are known for radicalisation or terrorism are arrested by the police and locked up in a courthouse or in a closed centre. We are trying to expel them from the country at all prices. That's what we do every month. You can believe that. Unfortunately, in this case it was not, that is clear and clear. I'm not hiding anything. If you have any questions about other files, you are always free to ask them, especially about nationality.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u12	I thank the Secretary of State for his clarity in this matter. I find it particularly hard to see that special unit agents and men who risk their lives on such searches do so for people who should not even have been in the country anymore. You say there was no evidence that this was a terrorist suspect. I assume so, but one should systematically remove all criminal illegals. It is a confirmation of what we have been saying for years, that the order to leave the territory is nothing more than a piece of paper that they use as identification documents. What's the three-year entry ban if they don't even leave the country? You refer to the reception capacity of the closed centres, which is now going up a bit in June.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u13	Oh, yeah,
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u14	You come from very little. So it's not hard to rise sharply. You're on the capacity of Secretary of State Wathelet in 2007. Then, from the opposition banks, you told Secretary of State Wathelet that this was far too low. We didn't even...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u15	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u16	In the meantime, the inflow has also gone up very strongly. It is therefore more than necessary to step up in this area, so that all criminal illegals can be effectively removed and an order to leave the territory is not used merely as an identification document.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u17	Mr Secretary of State, in the context of European asylum policy, an agreement was made for the resettlement of refugees. For our country, this means 550 places would be filled in in 2015 and 2016. In 2015, 250 places were not filled in. Will these remaining places be included in 2016? What is the state of play regarding the implementation of the Resettlement Programme for 2016? How many places have already been occupied and from which countries have these people come? Will the 250 unfilled sites of 2015 be completed this year? That would mean that by the end of 2016 a total of 800 people would be repatriated - 250 from last year and 550 for this year. Can you confirm that? Have you already made agreements regarding the selection of the remaining sites? How's that gonna happen? Which target groups are they talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u18	Madam President, Secretary of State, this is an oral question following a rather comprehensive written question, in which I requested all the figures from 2014. I have done so because in recent years, so from 2014, many promises were made about resettlement. However, the actual numbers of resettlements of war refugees were a lot lower over and over again. So not much work has been done on these resettlements. A further commitment has been made for 2016, in particular 550 resettlements. How will you live up to this commitment? What is the situation so far? What explanation do you have for the fact that the promises have not been kept so far?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u19	Madam President, Mr De Vriendt, all this happened in 2014, although in 2015. So what you're saying is incorrect. There is indeed a delay effect at 2015. That is not our fault, as I made clear to you last week. It is true that there is often a delay effect on the pledges for resettlement, on the one hand, and on the effective arrivals, on the other. However, this is both factual and intellectually incorrect. Resettlement is a process of several steps, of which only a few are controlled by me or my services. First and foremost, we depend on UNHCR to deliver the pre-selection of files. A selection mission should then be organised by the CGMS, including the necessary screenings. Fedasil is organising a cultural orientation mission. Finally, we also depend on the IOM for the practical travel arrangements in the country of refuge for the necessary facilities. In recent months, several resettlement operations have been delayed in this way. There were problems with the delivery of exit documents in Turkey. The resettlement of Congolese refugees from Burundi should be postponed due to the security situation there. The overcrowding of our reception network also caused problems at the end of 2015. I hope you can understand that. However, I would like to stress that this has always been a matter of delay but not of delay. In 2016, 63 Syrian refugees from Lebanon were resettled to date. Several arrivals of Syrian refugees are planned in the coming weeks, in particular 141 from Lebanon, 23 from Jordan, 14 from Iraq and 24 from Egypt. Indeed, in 2015 the quota was increased several times, but the operational impact and planned arrivals were partly postponed to 2016, as a result of the very strong increase in the number of regular asylum applications in Belgium in the second half of 2015. In 2015, however, humanitarian visas were also issued to more than 250 Syrians. I would like to reiterate that, when you talk about legal access routes to Europe or Belgium, there have never been so many humanitarian visas issued in Belgian history as under my rule, under this government. Nor have there ever been so many resettlements as under this government and have never been so many safe gateways and visas delivered by a safe road, in particular an air bridge, as under this government, under my rule. So be careful with your claims. Of course, for some it will never be enough, that is clear. In a few weeks, almost all Syrian refugees, selected in 2015, will have arrived in Belgium. For the further development of the programme in 2016, I instructed my administrations to prepare the resettlement of 250 Syrians from Turkey, 100 Syrians from Lebanon and 50 Congolese refugees from the region. As regards resettlement from Turkey, which is also part of the joint European engagements in the deal with Turkey, UNHCR has already requested the first dossiers. The UN Refugee Organisation will be able to deliver these files at the earliest by the end of this month. Then we will start the procedures for these people to travel to Belgium as soon as possible and to welcome them here in our asylum centres. At least if they are taken in asylum centres, because it is striking in the case of resettlement that reception is often already provided outside asylum centres. By the way, they're often family members. Further adjustments to the 2016 planning will of course remain possible, depending on the international context and the further evolution of the agreement with Turkey. Finally, Mrs Lanjri, Mr De Vriendt, I would just like to stress that if there are any questions for humanitarian visas, you will always find me in Rue de la Loi 18.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u20	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Of course, I understand that resettlement must go through a number of stages and that sometimes external circumstances do not make it work as planned. I believe that lessons can be learned from this, in the sense that some organisations should also be started on time. There are things that we can't help, such as visa problems. I think that it is particularly important that the resettlement should continue to be tracked and that you should continue gradually to try to comply with the agreements. You have given a lot of figures, can you answer my question in the affirmative as to whether the 250 people who could not be filled in last year, since there was a delay, will it be able to resettle again this year? That would mean that this year we intend to resettle 800 people. I didn't add up all the numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u21	We are negotiating this with UNHCR. The question is, where? I have no problem with this in principle, but we are dealing with relocation and ressetlement. We're looking at that story.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u22	In itself, therefore, there is no problem in catching up with last year's backlog.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u23	Madam President, Secretary of State, the only problem is that this delay is growing year after year, and promises have been made since 2014. You yourself admitted that the number of resettlements was not realised in 2014 but moved to 2015. The problem is that the promises were not made in 2015, so that too is moving forward. It is one thing to make very mediaive promises, resulting in large headlines, but year after year the number of resettlements in the year that is not being achieved. Let me give you the figures again in writing. In 2014, the promise was 100 resettlements, of which only 34 were realised. It was 28 Syrians and six Congolese. This is your answer to my written question. The rest may have been postponed to 2015, but what do we see in 2015? In 2015, there was the promise of 800 resettlements... the number was increased each time.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Here too, everything can be moved to the next year, 2016. Also in 2016 there was the new promise of 550 resettlements, with on top of that everything that was not yet realized in 2015 and perhaps even 2014. In short, the number is increasing and the gap between what you promise and what is being implemented in that particular year is widening. You say that there have never been so many resettlements. In any case, you've never promised so many. The war in Syria has been going on since 2011. That war is unseen and the flow of refugees he has set in motion is equally unseen. These are millions of people in neighbouring Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan. You are pointing to a number of organizational problems. Okay, but then it seems to me, Mr Secretary of State, to prepare everything sooner and better. There are plenty of refugees waiting for a resettlement. Pick the low-hanging fruit. Take the people who are available, whose framework is efficient and which the UN Refugee Organisation is already on for a short time. There are plenty of people who can and want to be re-established. Of course, the few hundred you realize a year is not enough. I say very clearly that this is not enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u24	Mr De Vriendt, can you finish?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u25	I'll finish, Madam President. I have kept my question brief. I don't know if you've noticed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u26	It is intended to ask questions and not to hold a monologue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u27	The gap between promises and achievements is only widening, and that is only regrettable, because resettlement is one of the best ways to avoid killing on the Mediterranean Sea or other deadly routes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u28	Paragraph 6 of our agenda is a number of mixed questions, including those of Mr Vermeulen. Mr De Vriendt, may I ask you to be patient for a few minutes? Mr Calomne and Mrs Gabriels are also not present to put their questions under item 7. Mrs Jadin has asked her question No. 10626 to be converted into a written question. The same applies to Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European We have not yet heard from Mrs Smeyers, I suggest we wait and see if she shows up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u29	Mr Secretary of State, since the amendment of the Aliens Act, so since February last year, with the changes we have made for unaccompanied minors, it is possible to apply for both asylum and a special protection status. At that time, we deliberately chose to do so, because that is something that can be done in adults, and it is something that can be done in two procedures at the same time. Unaccompanied minors can do the same. However, previous questions which I have asked have shown that no or very few people are applying for double procedure. It turns out that the administration has a lot of problems with that. There is uncertainty as to the documents to be delivered for both procedures, e.g. Annex 38 on a durable solution in the country of origin and an extension attestation on the non-decision in asylum procedures. Has that ambiguity been resolved in the meantime? Which documents are applicable exactly? Is there a preference, for example, where it is said that the most advantageous status is in principle given first to the unaccompanied minor? Would this require additional legislative work? Can you solve the problem by creating clarity and giving an instruction to the DVZ? Experience has also shown that the DVZ often waits for the protection procedure to come to an end. In practice, this means, as I have heard from the people in the field and from various organisations, that we do not realize what we meant by the legislative proposal, namely to allow the two procedures to be combined. In practice one waits first and that can sometimes take years. An asylum procedure can drag on for a year or two. If we only then start the protection procedure, we will be back in the system that used to exist, with all the negative consequences of that. In my view, there would be a possibility of taking into account the stay prior to the protection procedure in this practice. From the day on which asylum is applied for, the two procedures should be recorded and, where appropriate, one after the other, but the time limit should be counted from the day on which the person has applied for asylum. Otherwise, there will be problems if the minor is to reach the age of majority, because the procedures sometimes drag on for a very long time. This is also partly due to the fact that certain young people still have to wait a long time for a guardian.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u30	Ms Lanjri, since, among other things, your law of 26 February 2015, unaccompanied minors may initiate several proceedings at the same time. The DVZ received very few applications of that type. In principle, it is clear that whatever the number of applications submitted, only one residence document can be issued and not one residence document per procedure. That was, I suppose, not the intention at the time of the parliamentary discussion either. So that makes sense. Moreover, for some procedures which do not have the same objectives and/or the same means of research, it is difficult or even impossible to continue them together. For example, the application for refugee status does not allow parents to be examined in the country of origin, because of the protection that the applicant must be afforded to his original authorities, although the procedure for finding a sustainable solution is based on research to be carried out in the country of origin. Mr Roosemont and Mr Van den Bulck made this clear during the parliamentary debate, and when they were not there I said it myself on their behalf. On the other hand, these difficulties of simultaneous management do not arise in the cumulation of other procedures, such as family reunification and sustainable solution or applications for authorisation to stay 9a and sustainable solution. Other procedures can therefore be combined. There's not really a problem there. It is particularly difficult to apply for asylum and a sustainable solution, because the sustainable solution requires information from the country of origin and often needs to go to the embassy, while the application for asylum prevents it. That is not always obvious. Whatever the procedures submitted and whatever the outcome, account will always be taken of the period spent in Belgium by the young person as an element of the investigation, among all the other data, in the best interests of the child. That's taken into account in any case. The age limit of the young person only puts an end to the procedure, not to the other procedures, in which the person's age does not play any role. The asylum procedure will, of course, continue if the person becomes 18 years old and the investigation is still ongoing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u31	Mr Secretary of State, I understand that sometimes the detection techniques are an obstacle. I'm talking about the search that's going on in the protection procedure, effectively checking whether the parents or family are still alive. I understand that, of course, there is a need to be careful about this when the person in question has applied for asylum. We had also been given the guarantee, including UNHCR, Caritas and others, that there are methods of dealing with it with caution. I understand this is still difficult. The solution is, therefore, that a person who has applied for two procedures and even if he delivers only one residence document to which I have no objection, because there are no two to be delivered either, and for whom the asylum procedure is based on a national residence permit, it is true that the protection procedure takes into account, for example, the two years passed but during which the person concerned was in the country. That's important. That must also be included in the protection procedure as it is today. You confirm to me that this is happening and that is good. In particular, additional information should be provided to guardians on the possibility of cumulation of procedures. They don't all know that, because they almost don't.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u32	I think it would be interesting to get the figures on unaccompanied minors and recognitions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u33	They're often high, I know that. Of some countries, the recognition rate is at 90%, that is correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u34	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u35	I will re-apply that question. It is important that we give effective protection to the most vulnerable, young people, to whom they need and to whom they are entitled. We are not arguing for abuse of procedures, but simply for what they are entitled to. That is why it is important that we at least also take account of the period they were here in the country. I understand from your reply that the services also take effective account of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u36	Good morning, Secretary of State. I would indeed like to take stock of the hotspots in Greece and the staff of the Fedasil centers that are sent there. You have already mentioned this in this committee. How is this going? Has a cooperation agreement been concluded between Belgium and Greece? Can you tell me how many people are actually affected by this measure? How were they selected? On a voluntary basis, I guess. What are the conditions for their travel and on-site working conditions? For how long are they sent back to Greece? Can you also describe to me precisely what is the nature of their task on the spot? Can Greece count on the support of other Member States in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u37	Mr Crusnière, at the European Summit on 18 March, the Prime Minister announced that Belgium will be ready to support Greece by sending some 50 Belgian experts. This support will be provided through calls for experts from the Member States, launched by EASO, the European Asylum Support Office, and Frontex. With regard to Fedasil, it was proposed to send between 10 and 25 experienced staff from the reception centres or central headquarters. An internal call for voluntary candidates is under way. Fedasil's collaborator is already on the ground in Greece. These will be multi-week missions, normally six weeks. The selected Fedasil experts will be able to provide support in various tasks related to the operation of the host structures in the hotspots. Experts may also be mobilised under the EASO longer-term support plan for Greece, as well as in the context of relocation or voluntary return operations. In all cases, the tasks will depend on the actual needs relayed by the European agencies. Yes, the aim is that each of the Member States can support Greece. Initial information shows that some Member States, like Belgium, have responded favourably to the call for more staff to be made available. I invited my Greek colleague to visit the Fedasil centre in Lubbeek, my municipality, this Thursday. This has not been officially confirmed, but on Friday there is a JHA Council in Brussels. He will therefore be in Belgium tomorrow Thursday and I hope that he will come so that we can talk a bit about the situation in Greece.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u38	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for these answers. I think it is indeed interesting to share this kind of expertise and to have a discussion with your Greek counterpart. I would just like to point out that there is not only an excellent centre in Lubbeek but also in Walloon Brabant. Perhaps it would have been interesting to visit the centres of Walloon Brabant as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u39	Madam President, Secretary of State, I would like to ask you about applications for medical residence. The Act of 15 September 2006 introduced a specific procedure in the Belgian law on the residence of aliens so that an alien could apply for a residence permit in Belgium for medical reasons. The different actors (lawyers, doctors, etc.) which are associated with this procedure have expressed some concerns, given the numerous dysfunctions that are observed in the practical implementation. As my group has already pointed out, there is excessive formalism in the processing of cases, too strict an assessment of the seriousness of the disease, a lack of thorough research into effective access to care in the country of origin, a lack of adversarial debate before the Office of Foreigners, a lack of consideration of psychological or psychiatric diseases and, lastly, very lengthy procedures. Secretary of State, can you give me the number of applications that have been accepted and rejected on the basis of Article 9ter for the years 2014 and 2015? Can you also give me the figures for the first months of 2016? With regard to the persons who are responsible for processing applications, can you tell me the number of people who work in this department and what their training is? Is the service composed solely of general practitioners or are there specialists per subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u40	Mr President, my colleague, I have the honour to provide you with the following information. The 9ter statistics for 2014, 2015 and the first months of 2016 are, as each year, included in the annual reports and ad hoc monthly statistics, directly available on the website of the Office of Foreigners (OE). Even if I could give him this information, I invite the honourable member to visit this site. The Executive Board has 91 staff members, including 48 in its 9ter section, including physicians. It is impossible to give a record of all the trainings which these 91 employees have enjoyed in their careers. I note that the Rules of the House do not allow for oral questions on statistics. The role of the OE physician is not to confirm or invalidate a diagnosis, but to verify whether or not the medical conditions required by Article 9ter are met. Here are some statistics. The number of applications in January 2016 was 120, in February, 115 and in March, 163. As for the decisions, from January to March 2016,... I give you the following figures: temporary stay authorisation: 34, permanent stay authorisation: 1, inadmissible application: 413, unfounded application: 413, exclusion: 4, without object: 45, distance: 1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u41	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. We know that these people are often in great distress and suffering. I really invite you to ask your services to process the files as quickly as possible and, above all, to show humanity in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u42	Madam President, Secretary of State, on April 12, you visited the buildings of the Centre d'Orientation et d'Observation (COO) for MENA in Steenokkerzeel, which has reached the limits of its capacity. With the good days coming back, we can fear new migration waves. The rescue of 1,850 people in the Mediterranean by the Italian Navy on Monday 11 April shows this again. The consequences of all this are, of course, the arrival of new migrants in Belgium, including many MENA. The MENA reception route takes place in three phases: the integration of a COO once the young person has been reported; they are then directed to a collective centre, to youth support or to foster families; and the final phase prepares them for autonomy. Mr Secretary of State, in view of the international obligations concerning the rights of the child and the reception of unaccompanied foreign minors (MENA), may I ask you what the current reception capacity for MENA in Belgium depends on the integration phase in which they are located? What lessons have you learned from your visit to the Steenokkerzeel centre? What major issues have brought to your attention those responsible, workers and MENA in this centre? Have there been any suggestions for solutions during your visit in order to avoid congestion?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u43	Mrs Thoron, this is the first time I think you're asking me a question. Nice to meet you. In the first reception phase, the capacity is currently 495 places, in the second phase of 2,219 places and in the third phase of 204 places. During my visit to the Steenokkerzeel COO, discussions with the centre's officials and the team focused mainly on the following topics: explaining the functioning of a COO and, in particular, establishing the first psychosocial profile for an adequate orientation of MENA in the second reception phase.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u44	Another theme addressed was the first acclimatization to life in Belgium and to the values of our society, through literacy courses and learning to daily life, given within the centre, through the follow-up of a structured model day, through a clear educational support framework. It is also important to create a sense of security for the first-time MENA. In particular, the setting up of the wait allows for the creation of an additional community space where young people can be brought together for collective activities and avoid the excessive concentration of MENA in a restricted area. The reception capacity was increased in the first and second phases in order to cope with the inflow via the following measures: Mr Madrane invited me to visit a centre in the French Community at the beginning of June and I am very pleased to do so; I will respond to the invitation; - the opening of additional reception facilities by existing partners, including the Red Cross; - increasing reception capacity within existing structures with an increase in inflow. The increase in the number of places has enabled all MENA to be welcomed and the accompanying journey and supervision adapted to the needs of MENA, for the majority of them arriving during the months of large influx, to be preserved. It is always possible to visit a centre, it is very interesting. There's one in Neder-Over-Heembeek and you're always welcome. On this point, cooperation with the French Community is optimal. I think that the French Community is really an example, in Belgium, of youth assistance for MENA and for guardianship.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u45	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your very clear answer. Of course, I have no doubt about your involvement in this issue in finding solutions. I'm actually going to visit a center. I think this is a very good thing in the work of a parliamentarian.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u46	Mr Secretary of State, in May last year we transferred 244 Syrian Christians to Belgium through a Belgian humanitarian operation from Aleppo. After this, these people would go through the classical asylum procedure. Only two months later this news was announced. At the committee meeting on 14 July, you made statements about this operation and clarified that these people were not saved on the basis of their faith, but because of their very fragile situation. You indicated that the group had been set up in such a way as to give priority to the weakest people, such as families with young children, but also single women, the elderly and the sick. Recently, the magazine MO* published an article about a Christian Syrian family that has lived in our country since 2011. Their parents, respectively, aged 74 and 77, still live in Aleppo. Because of their faith and age, their situation in Syria is very precarious. That is why the family submitted a humanitarian visa application for both parents. According to the article of 30 March in the MO* magazine, the humanitarian visa application for this person has been refused twice, as nothing would prevent Syrian Christians in Aleppo from living a normal life. There would also be a judgment stating that the decision of the DVD would violate the European Convention on Human Rights. Mr Secretary of State, I have the following questions. Firstly, is it true that the humanitarian visa application for these Syrian Christians was refused? If so, is it true that this decision was taken on the basis of the above arguments? If not, when was the decision taken to grant these persons a visa? Secondly, what was the reason for the DVZ to disregard the judge's judgment? Thirdly, how many humanitarian visa applications were submitted between 2013 and 2016? How many of these came from persons from Syria? How many of these have already been dealt with, and what was the result?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u47	Mr President, Secretary of State, last year there was a rescue operation of Syrian Christians from Aleppo to our country. It was a very secretive operation in which you and the Belgian Government cooperated. You then motivated Christians in Aleppo to be persecuted specifically for their faith and therefore to be extra vulnerable. There is another way to protect and rescue Syrian Christians from Aleppo, in particular by issuing humanitarian visas after family members who are already in Belgium apply for them. However, there are now cases in which the DVZ refuses to issue such visas, and only after lengthy appeals to the RVV. That is the reality. This is a dossier which the President has just referred to. There are other files, and in particular other appeals pending, following negative decisions by the DVD. Your example, President, was about the family from Waregem who had to sue for years in order to have their elderly parents transferred from Aleppo, with two refusals from the DVZ but ultimately a positive decision after the appeal court ruling. The DVZ has supported the refusal as follows, which is remarkable: "Nothing prevents Syrian Christians from living a normal life in Aleppo." I am not concerned with individual dossiers, but with general policy, especially since apparently some other negative decisions were taken by the DVD. That's why I have four questions. Firstly, how do you explain the DVZ's refusal to issue humanitarian visas to Christians in Aleppo despite their threatened situation, which you yourself clearly recognise? Why can everything go quickly in a secret rescue operation and is it necessary for one to two years if people want to follow the formal procedures of our country and therefore apply through family members for a humanitarian visa? Secondly, how can you explain the reasons for the DVZ, so the responsibility that nothing prevents Syrian Christians in Aleppo from living a normal life? Thirdly, which profiles among Syrian Christians do receive a humanitarian visa and which do not? Fourthly, how many humanitarian visas were issued to Syrians in 2013, 2014 and 2015? How many of them are Christians? We refer to the tweet in which you provided general statistics on the number of humanitarian visas per year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u48	Mr President, Mr De Vriendt, thank you for your questions. This is a very painful dossier, but it has been resolved in the meantime. The sentence probably comes from a more developed motivation in fact and in law. From his context, this phrase is absolutely unlucky. I've asked the DVZ to make sure he's relevant. I believe that it is indeed difficult to justify the fact that, on the one hand, a humanitarian operation is being organised from Aleppo and, on the other hand, in the justification, says that nothing is actually preventing us from living a normal life in Aleppo. This does not seem to me to be correct and rather contradictory. However, it was discussed with my Director-General and I hope it will not happen again. You can always ask your questions about the statistics on humanitarian visa applications and access to humanitarian visas through a written question, Mr De Vriendt. In my opinion, you have already requested this and I have no problem with giving those statistics. I didn't bring them, but I want them delivered to you. That's not a problem. Mr President, rescue operations are not the only thing we are doing. We're moving on. We're gonna keep going. I think that is very responsible and absolutely necessary. We are not, moreover, the only Western European country to launch such operations. You're talking about a mysterious operation. Well, that's just necessary. Nor do we always issue humanitarian visas on the basis of Article 9 of the law. Sometimes we simply give transit visas and those involved here end up in the ordinary asylum procedure. However, this is a technical matter. The important thing is that those involved get here. I would also like to express my gratitude to our ambassador in Beirut and his entire staff. They work very hard and do their diplomatic work in mysterious operations in a very mature and correct way. I can tell you that there is an enormous amount of work in Beirut. It's one of our busiest embassies since the Syrian crisis. There is an enormous amount of hard and good work there to effectively bring people the salvation that I think they need.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u49	Mr Secretary of State, I am glad that the one mentioned problem has already been resolved. I'm also glad to hear that people can still be saved, that there are still surgeries going on and, as I hear, will follow. I am pleased that people who are in a very vulnerable situation will have a helping hand from our country, through you and your policies. I hope that the mistakes that have been made, which are completely contrary to the policy pursued, have disappeared. We must be strict and just, but we must also offer a helping hand to those who need it. This is enough for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u50	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to say something procedural first. You are one of the few members of the government who insists so strictly on the Rules of Procedure that questions about statistics cannot be answered in an oral question. I find that difficult sometimes. I understand the distinction, of course, but it is sometimes difficult because sometimes people want to make an oral point and have a discussion, also on the basis of a new figure. After all, that feeds the discussion. It is better to put that into one general discussion than a separate oral question, a separate written question and then an oral question on that written question. I'm just saying that sometimes this makes a good discussion a little difficult. Did I understand correctly that you said that there will be such rescues as this one in 2015? [[Assent]] However, I found this rescue problematic and I am going to tell you why. I think there was a arbitrariness. It was also specifically about Christians, which was also announced and so stated. For me, however, faith is not a criterion. Many people, of any religion, live in a very fragile situation in Syria. For me, vulnerability is paramount. It is clear that this rescue was also organised from Christian civil society. It is problematic if the government, in this case you in your capacity as policy-maker, participates in it from the point of view of religion. And that was clearly the case in 2015. It's the vulnerability that should be paramount. You say that you have not prevented Syrian Christians from living a normal life in Aleppo from talking to the DVZ. That is good, but of course you have not answered my most important question. Will the DVZ change its policy on humanitarian visas to Syrian Christians from Aleppo or not? It is one thing to change the wording, to make it more tactful and not to write such matters anymore, but will the DVD change its policy on humanitarian visas? There are, after all, appeal procedures for the RVV which make it clear that this group of people is entitled to a humanitarian visa. Will DVZ change his policy now or not, Mr Secretary of State? Will you take care of that? It seems to me that changing the wording is not enough. Can you answer that, please?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u51	Mr De Vriendt, I take your comment on the statistics. I am always in favour of a good parliamentary debate, but the rules must of course be respected. I'm kind of on that. In the previous legislature, that was also mentioned. I would certainly like to take your comment with me. If I am not mistaken, a resolution on the protection of religious minorities in the Middle East was adopted at the end of the previous parliamentary term. I can bow to that. This is, of course, a new legislature, so the resolution is no longer relevant in this respect. Perhaps it could be a suggestion to put them on the table again and ask for a vote again. I thought that was a very good resolution. Before you accuse me of religious racism, Mr De Vriendt, I would like to say that this is not the case. That accusation is really inappropriate. It's about Christians, a religious minority. Religious minorities in the Middle East are particularly evil. In your question, you often quote international reports from NGOs. You should also read the international reports of the same NGOs on the position and situation of religious minorities in the Middle East and the Arab world. I think you should be consistent in that regard too. I also said what I have to say about this. I find that very disappointing. I can only say that this government will continue along this path, that we will do so without hesitation and without the slightest intention of discrimination or racism based on religion. It concerns particularly vulnerable groups, namely the religious minorities, and I also see broad support for this operation, even if you and your party do not agree at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u52	And my question how can you explain why DVZ refuses humanitarian visas to Syrian Christians? Will that change in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u53	I can only say that this is being worked on. You say DVZ is changing its policy on humanitarian visas. The whole policy will not be changed, but we are talking about it in our administration, because I also believe that improvements can be made in some cases. I'll put it this way. However, that is not yet complete. Of course, you can ask a question about it in about four weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u54	I'll follow your suggestion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u55	I also said it earlier, if there are any files, there is no problem there. It's a particularly painful file, twice RVV, I've read it too, it was a big article. I have to say, when I read it, I wasn't sitting in a chair, but if I had, I would have fallen off that chair. By the way, that reporter did a pretty good job, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u56	It is effective for older people who have wanted to follow the formal procedure for up to two years. It is the family members themselves who said that they could have just as well engaged human smugglers to get their older relatives out of Syria and that they did not do so. I just want to say that there are other appeals pending. So it's a much more global problem. If you say you're looking at this, that you're working on it, I'll tell you I'll question you again, effectively within a few weeks. In connection with the rescue operations of specific Christians from Syria, I stand by it, we must be subject to the criterion of vulnerability. There are many religions, many beliefs that live in a precarious situation in Syria. This was a rescue operation set up by a Christian civil society group, where you were behind as a government. That goes too far for us, because the basis with which all this has been started is religion, while for us the basis must be vulnerability.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u57	Mr.President, Secretary of State, on Wednesday, March 30, 2016, the federal government approved, under your leadership, the text of the commitment of the first-comer. In concrete terms, any national of a country outside the European Union who wishes to remain in Belgium for more than three months will be asked to sign a document by which he undertakes to respect the rights, duties and freedoms that organize our society, such as the freedoms of opinion, religion, sexual orientation and the principle of equality between men and women. Through this document, the first comer must also commit himself to integrating socially, professionally and culturally, as well as to learning the language of his place of residence. The establishment of this mechanism is an important step towards a fair and effective immigration and integration policy. It is essential that a right of residence be accompanied by an obligation to integrate into our society. So, Secretary of State, I would like to ask you a few questions about this new mechanism. When will the obligation to sign this declaration be effective for first-time arrivals? Do you already have a schedule for the implementation of the measure? In concrete terms, how will this process of signature take place? From what point after their arrival and to what public institution will the first arrivals be summoned to sign this document? What is the number of persons covered by the measure on an annual basis? What are the consequences of refusal to sign? What penalties are provided for non-compliance with the signed commitments and how will these sanctions be applied? Finally, what synergies exist with the regions that implement the integration path?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u58	Mr Secretary of State, on Wednesday 30 April, the Federal Government approved the text of a newcomer declaration. Any non-EU national wishing to stay in Belgium for more than three months must sign the document. In the next step, the government will submit a bill to Parliament. The declaration is said to be unique in Europe. The aim is to encourage the rapid integration of certain newcomers. The document is a kind of declaration of commitment, which we support with our group. My questions are more about the legal context in this area. The texts state that the person concerned must make a reasonable effort to meet the criteria set out in the law. If he does not, the residence permit granted shall not be renewed. The assessment of the effort as we read is within the discretion of the Minister or his authorised representative. In other words, in addition to the public order element, the Department of Foreign Affairs is given a wider power to assess whether newcomers are doing enough to integrate. I also understand that if the DVZ is negative, the foreigner concerned will then be given an order to leave the territory. Mr Secretary of State, this is only about a clearly defined group of non-EU nationals. Do you already know how the additional condition will be legally built in for this separate group? In what language is the statement presented and what is the approach for illiterate people? Can the assessment of an integration effort be entrusted to the DVD's competence? When can we expect the bill? We had understood that lawyer Ivo Flachet says that the newcomer declaration violates human rights in five areas. What is your position on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u59	Mr President, I shall come to Parliament with the draft in any case, so that we can have a broad debate. It's now with the Council of State. I expect the advice next week and I'm very curious. The text of the newcomer declaration has not yet been adopted. The text of the declaration is laid down by a royal decree passed by the Council of Ministers, which must, of course, have a legal basis. A draft text, consisting of a draft bill, a draft royal decree and a draft annex to the royal decree, was submitted to the Council of Ministers, which agreed to forward the complete file to the Council of State for its opinion. The opinion is expected on 20 May 2016. That's next week. Only after the opinion will the draft law be the subject of a parliamentary debate. If the draft law is approved, the Royal Decree and the attached annex may be submitted to the Council of Ministers. In this way, the text will also be the subject of a parliamentary debate. [[The first-comen declaration is based on the Danish model, which includes the following declarations: respecting the country's legislation and democratic principles; understanding and accepting that knowledge of the language and the knowledge of society are essential for achieving active participation in the community; understanding and accepting that citizens and their families must be able to provide their own livelihood; understanding and accepting that men and women have the same rights and duties and that both men and women make their contribution to society; understanding and accepting that any act of violence against another person or his spouse or child is punishable; understanding and accepting that boys and girls cannot be forced to marry; and that genital mutilation is prohibited; respecting personal freedom and integrity, freedom of opinion and religion; understanding and accepting that any act of terrorism is firmly condemned; understanding and accepting that integration is a condition for continuing to enjoy a right to stay.]] It is the King who, by deliberate decree in the Council of Ministers, determines the content of the declaration and the manner in which it is signed. Any stranger who wishes to stay in the Empire for more than three months will be asked to sign the declaration. For the sake of European and international rules, the signing of certain categories of foreign nationals listed in the law cannot be introduced as an admissibility requirement nor can proof of the willingness to integrate be imposed as an additional condition of residence. Of course, the draft law lists these categories. The Royal Decree provides that the statement is to be submitted to the foreigner in a language he understands. In the case of illiterate persons, the regulatory texts do not provide for specific rules. For this purpose, instructions may be given that the statement should be read to them in a language they understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u60	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u61	I have nothing to add. We'll continue the discussion. I understand that the opinion will now be in on Friday, so this will be continued. We do, of course, support the principle.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u62	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 10626 by Mrs Jadin will be converted into a written question, and Question No 10626 by Mrs Jadin will be answered in writing. 10696 by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u63	Mr. Secretary of State, in February-March 2016, 900 staff from Fedasil's reception centres attended a rapid course on the detection of radicalisation. The staff would have been asking for that training. The course consisted of three parts. The focus of the course was on preventing and identifying and preventing radicalisation of asylum seekers in reception centres. In addition to training for staff, a focal point for radicalisation would be set up at Fedasil. You mentioned in previous answers that it is not for the asylum authorities to establish that an asylum seeker has been radicalised. If the staff of the reception centres detects evidence of this, they shall be submitted to the competent authorities. This is done according to a communication protocol. Contacts with local police will be made immediately. The central board of Fedasil ensures the necessary follow-up and measures for the individual. In the meantime, have there been any signs that asylum seekers in the reception centres are radicalising? Is the hotline operational in the meantime? How will the hotline function within the procedure described just now in determining a staff member's radicalisation? Have any reports come to the hotline yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u64	Since the entry into force of the radicalism procedure, the Agency has already received reports of persons potentially showing potential signs of radicalism. Those notifications were immediately forwarded to the competent authorities. Fedasil's hotline of radicalism has been operational since the beginning of March. There were eight reports in March. When an employee observes or receives relevant information about possible signs of radicalism from a resident, he fills in the sheet radicalism and sends the message to the email address radicalism@fedasil.be, with the center director in copy. The director shall send the sheet to the contact person of the local police. All reports are centralized by the hotline radicalism. Reporting of notifications will be provided three times a year. That's something to follow very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u65	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. We will continue to follow that up with you and continue to ask questions about it. It's an important hotline.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u66	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, we have read in the media that in Belgium minors disappear every week. Last year Child Focus described 66 of these disappearances as worrying. Apparently, 43 of these kids are still missing. These are all very serious cases, which are treated both by Fedasil, the parquet and by Child Focus as the most worrying disappearances, i.e. files where the children are either very young, have medical problems or there are indications that they have been kidnapped by certain gangs who force them somewhere in prostitution or employment as illegal domestic workers. Those are serious facts, aren't they? In total, there are a huge number of minors in Europe who suddenly disappear after registration. Europol warned in January that 10 000 minors had disappeared throughout Europe last year. There would also be problems that make the detection of children more difficult, which have to do with the social climate around refugees, among other things. Among other things, detection messages from missing refugees would be remarkably less quickly shared on social media and so on. Another pain in this file is the lack of legal guardians. At the end of last year, 900 unaccompanied minors would still have no guardian, but a right for all childless children. Child Focus negotiated with your cabinet a while ago better precautions to prevent the minor refugees from disappearing. What is the outcome of your consultations with Child Focus? What measures do you intend to take to prevent disappearances and to remedy the difficulties encountered in the detection of such cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u67	Mr President, Mrs Gabriels, this too is a very important dossier. I am pleased that you continue your efforts to improve the protection of unaccompanied minors through quality care. That is, by the way, a real priority of our coalition agreement. There must be a good framework and greater commitment to the prevention of disappearances in this target group. That is why my cabinet has spent the past year together with Child Focus on several occasions to raise the general issue of unaccompanied minors and specifically to discuss the Federal Government's 2014 memorandum. For example, they were asked to provide training for staff in the centres with regard to the disappearance of unaccompanied minors. I would also like to see a national extension of the cooperation protocol on dealing with the disappearance files. This protocol exists today only for the two observation and orientation centres in Steenokkerzeel and Neder-Over-Heembeek. This will first be discussed with my administration in the coming weeks and then with all the other partners involved. However, the negotiations you are referring to and the press article of 14 April 2016 refer to an informal conversation between my cabinet employee and Child Focus, in order to further develop this approach. As far as Fedasil is concerned, a process of disappearance is already under way in all reception structures in order to obtain a rapid and uniform alert of disappearance. This procedure includes the measures to be taken once the disappearance is detected, the criteria for categorizing the disappearance as worrying and modalities for communication including a standardised notification document. This procedure is also communicated in the training of staff of new reception centres for unaccompanied minors, which were opened at the major influx. Each shelter also regularly consults with the local police. This promotes good cooperation which can be useful if there is a need to react quickly when reporting a disappearance. In 2015, a working group reviewed the operational measures to improve the disappearance protocol signed between Child Focus, DVZ, Fedasil, the Voogdij department, the Brussels police and the Steenokkerzeel shelter. The measures are about updating the criteria to determine the vulnerability so that one can better determine whether a disappearance should be regarded as worrying and within what time period Child Focus should therefore be informed. We would therefore like to extend this protocol nationally. So we're working on it. Honestly, I was shocked by the number of disappearances. In some cases, not much can be done about it. People aren't locked up and free to go and stand wherever they want. For example, if they walk outside the shelter of Steenokkerzeel, they are free. If they grab their stuff at night and are untraceable because they want to go to England or France, that doesn't make things any easier. We must pay particular attention to the worrying disappearances. That's often about very young children, pregnant women, people taking medication, and so on. The emphasis must be on this. There's a lot going on, but it could be a little better. One can pick someone up ten times and bring him back to the OC, but the eleventh time he may be in Paris, Berlin or London. It's not all that obvious or easy. The big story is that all those missing persons are all in child prostitution and so on. I'm not saying it doesn't happen, but I think that's a small phenomenon. I don't have any figures on that. We are negotiating with Child Focus to improve this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u68	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I understand that this is not obvious and I am also convinced that they are not all in prostitution. However, I believe that we must not let go of this vulnerable group and continue to work on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u69	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Kir's 10908 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Scourneau's 10890 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Cassart-Mailleux's 10884 is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u70	Mr. Secretary of State, a month ago there was another massive fight at the asylum centre in Broechem near Ranst. If I looked at the media reports, it was about a hundred Iraqi and Afghan candidate asylum seekers who were beaten in a discussion about a female candidate asylum seeker who would have been harassed. It is a fact that a lot of damage was done to windows and furniture and so on. Fifteen rioters were arrested and made available to the Foreign Office. Can you explain more about what just happened? What interventions were carried out by the police forces? Were arrests and pvs the logical consequences? There would also have been a number of staff injuries. Is that right? How serious were they? Has that ensured that there have been disability and, if so, for how long? Did anyone get hurt? What is the cost of the damage measured? Who is it charged to? Have the candidate asylum seekers been sanctioned? What is the effect of their residence status on their asylum application? Finally, what measures can you take to avoid such matters in the future? As a result of a previous fight in the same asylum centre, I have already asked you a question. If I am not mistaken, then there were six arrests and at that time there were no known reasons for the application of all six. I thought two of them were being recognized more quickly and one of them left voluntarily. In the meantime, perhaps you could let us know what happened to those three other amokmakers. Were they deported or did they receive asylum?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u71	Mrs Pas, I know that you are very pleased that some of these ammo makers were apparently recognised as refugees. I was also able to read that in your party's national leaflet, which fell on the bus. Of course, that's very funny. I can only say that I do not really like that, but the asylum procedure is being dealt with in Belgium by an independent body, the CGVS. That is true in most European countries. The recognition depends on that. If sooner or later the persons concerned are sentenced to prison by the Belgian justice system, the cases will be different and the recognition status post factum can be withdrawn. But they will have had him first. In view of the path taken by the Belgian justice system, it may take some time for the judicial authorities to decide on the facts. I understand, however, that you have a great deal of fun in this. On the night of 18 April there was indeed a group fight between Afghans and Iraqis at the open asylum centre in Broechem. The reason was the way a number of residents approached a woman from the center. There was a first small-scale conflict between five residents, in which honour played an important role. After the situation had initially calmed down, two large groups, some 100 people involved, later went on to fight each other. The police have already arrived before the first conflict. After the calm had returned, the police left the shelter. However, after the outbreak of the group fight, the police were called up again and neutralized the group fight. A pv was drafted and 15 troublemakers were arrested. Some of the staff suffered minor injuries. They ran them up in an attempt to separate the fighting groups. They weren't themselves the target of the aggression. There is no temporary incapacity for work. Six residents were injured. They were transferred to the hospital for care, but could return to the shelter the same evening. The cost of the material damage remains to be determined. It's a couple of windows and shutters. The damage will be paid by Fedasil. To be clear, of course we will try to recover the damage before I can read it in your national leaflet. Six people were made available to the government and thus locked up in a closed centre. The nine other detained persons were temporarily excluded from the shelter. If an asylum seeker has committed facts of public order or facts affecting national security, the Commissioner-General of the refugees and stateless persons shall be informed. He shall then decide, in complete independence, whether or not to grant refugee status or subsidiary protection, taking into account the elements at his disposal. Under no circumstances do I intervene with the Commissioner-General, because the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless is independent in making decisions. If this independent institution finds that a person is at risk of being prosecuted in the country of origin or of habitual residence abroad, it is not for me to question this decision. The new law, which entered into force in September 2015, and which your party also voted for, gives the CGVS new powers with regard to the possibility of refusing asylum because of danger to society and national security. However, this can only be done under strict conditions. The CGVS may refuse to recognise refugee status if the alien is a threat to society because he has been definitively convicted of a particularly serious crime or if there are reasonable grounds to consider him a threat to national security, for example terrorism. The CGVS may exclude an asylum seeker from subsidiary protection status where there are serious reasons to believe that he has committed a serious crime. The applicant may also be excluded from subsidiary protection status where he is a threat to society or national security. The capacity utilisation rate at Broechem at the time of the incident was 92 %. This was immediately reduced after the incident and today stands at 82%, from 428 inhabitants to 380 on 3 May. The centre is committed to detecting tensions between residents and residents in the day-to-day management and to removing them through consultation or action. The shelter does this every day and will continue to do so with increased attention after the incident. Of the six persons subject to a measure, three were recognised as refugees. Two people were removed after they had waived their asylum application. A third person who had surrendered was exempted on 12 April because he is unfortunately indestructible. I'd have preferred to remove it, but I can't get a laissez pass, so I can't. You may also have a solution for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u72	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. You say twice that I enjoy the fact that agitators are recognized as asylum seekers. The only point of all your answer in which I can have fun is the fact that you read our leaves. I hope you will also draw inspiration from this for your policy. I am particularly sorry that these problems occur, despite all our warnings. What exactly is the perverse effect? The ammo makers come into an accelerated procedure and there are therefore a number that are recognised more quickly than the other asylum seekers who behave properly. So the system is wrong. There's a perverse side to it. I would like to draw your attention once again today to the fact that policy creates additional problems. After submitting this question, I received the figures from the Broechem-Ranst police area on the number of man-hours that the police have already put into incidents at that asylum centre, regardless of day-to-day preventive surveillance. Just on the basis of emergency calls, there were already 62 incidents according to the police area's figures. The fight on which my question was addressed resulted in 175 man-hours worked, and in 2016 alone more than 600 man-hours worked. That's an extra tax...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u73	What's an incident? Also give the definition of incidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u74	However you run it or turn it around, the reception is an additional burden on the police services, regardless of any other problems it raises. The solution is not to implement Mrs Merkel's badger policy and not to provide shelter, but to provide shelter in our own region, as other countries do. I have already heard congratulations from Monica De Coninck at previous committee meetings for the Wir purchase of das policy that you are carrying out. That is certainly not the policy we would implement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic422x.u75	My question No. 9959 is converted into a written question and the following questions: No. Mr Terwingen, No. 11287 11350 by Mr Van Hees and Mr 11370 and Mr 11376 by Mrs Jadin.
