ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u2	The President (in front of the Standing Assembly):
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u3	We learned of the death on Wednesday, March 16, of Minister of State Jean Defraigne, Honorary Speaker of the House of Representatives. With Jean Defraigne disappears an outstanding personality, which marked our Assembly with its imprint, especially during its presidential septennium. Born in Roosendaal-en-Nispen, Netherlands, in 1929, Jean Defraigne studied law brilliantly in Liège, where he established himself as a lawyer. He entered the House in 1965 and made himself known from the outset for his mental independence, his legal knowledge, his frankness and the rigour of his interventions. A member of our assembly until 1974, Jean Defraigne then sat three years in the Senate, before returning to the House of Commons in 1977. He will preside over our House in 1980 and then from 1981 to 1988, the year he left our House. In the government chaired by Edmond Leburton, he was the holder of the Walloon Regional Economy, while in the first government of Leo Tindemans he was Minister of Public Works from 1974 to 1976. A liberal of head and heart, very independent of character, his colleagues in the government had once described him as a "volcan from which fire and flames spring out"! When Jean Defraigne was elected President of the Chamber for the first time in 1980, our colleagues knew very well that they entrusted the Chair to a very experienced, very independent and extremely decisive man with a distinct character and a very sharp mind. Although his first presidency was short-lived due to the political circumstances, it did not go unnoticed, as his colleagues soon found that their chairman not only knew the Rules of Procedure, but he also handled them very handy. At the same time, they appreciated his exact language, his tactical field control, his efficient working methods and his impartiality. And then there was his temper, but that was almost always forgiven him. Jean Defraigne's second presidency lasted more than six years: from 1981 to 1988. Jean Defraigne had a taste for his function. The perch, the working meetings, the Conference of Presidents, all these activities were suitable for him. With a perfect understanding of the subjects discussed, knowing how to enlighten the debates, guide them and conclude them, manipulating humour and sometimes irony, according to his moods or the inspiration of the moment, he always managed to draw from the most confused procedural discussion, a concrete conclusion, pragmatic and capable of enlightening his peers on the real stakes of parliamentary debates. The deputies saw him as an independent man, guarantor of their prerogatives, who knew how to remind by his actions and authority that the supreme power is and must remain the legislative power. It took courage to defend, as he did, the parliamentary system during the periods of special powers. After leaving the Belgian political scene, Jean Defraigne, who had been appointed Minister of State in 1983 by the King, became a member of the European Parliament. In that Parliament he emerged as an ardent advocate for the transformation of the Strasbourg Parliament into a genuine parliament with wider powers, which could influence European decision-making. In the last few years of his life, Jean Defraigne was chairman of his party's arbitration committee, which was able to take advantage of his wealth of political experience. With Jean Defraigne disappears a very great parliamentarian, a born leader. And, if it has happened to him to strike one and the other by his fury, he has also been able to show, in many circumstances and in a very discreet way, of manslaughter and greatness! He was hiding a golden heart outside, and the grudge was unknown to him. Our former president possessed the qualities of true statesmen: courage, independence, a sense of service and duty. On your behalf, I have extended our condolences to our colleague Christine Defraigne, Speaker of the Senate, and to the Defraigne family who are present in our gallery and whom I greet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was a great political figure who left us last month. The tragic events forced us to postpone this tribute to this endearing personality. Jean Defraigne was from a modest background. His grandfather was a chapelier and a seasonal agricultural worker. His father was a vannier. Hesbignons are said to know the value of effort, to be people of common sense, to be determined people, and sometimes also to be people with heads near the hat. In this regard, Jean Defraigne was a true Hesbignon. All the testimonies agree that it is a well - established personality with a volcanic temperament. He was a man to speak out, always ready to defend his opinions against winds and tides, from a young age. Already at the athena, he was fighting against the existing high school students, at the time when Léon Degrelle was caracing in the polls. His mother once saw him return in blood. This proves that, from his childhood, he was a man of conviction, an authentic Democrat. Soon he moved towards liberalism with admirable energy. His career will take place at the expense of a doctor of law, a lawyer, alderman in Liège, a Liberal Member of Parliament, a great defender of the independents, an alternate justice of the peace, Secretary of State, Minister of Public Works, President of the Chamber, Member of the European Parliament or director of company. "A character," he was said to be both on Rue de la Loi and at the Liège Bar. I would like to talk about the man and all the qualities he has put in the service of the country. Jean Defraigne was certainly an excellent Speaker of the House. He was reappointed to this prestigious office unanimously by acclamation. In the House, he was body with the function. He was known by his colleagues to never leave his chair. He seemed incorporated into the perch he presided over. One thing he was intractable about was punctuality. The sittings of the House began on the second, at the scheduled time, and stopped late! He was also a formidable tribune. He had an extraordinary sense of distribution, a quality he shared with his great friend, Herman De Croo. His verva was the joy of the press and of the whole assembly, majority as opposition. One day, he even publicly and openly reprimanded Minister Jean Gol, who had arrived late at the assembly. That's to say he wasn't afraid of anything. But everyone agrees that, despite this temperament of character milk soup, this man was in fact incapable of grudge. Under abrupt exteriors, he had a heart of gold and was emotional. It was imbued to the highest degree with the sense of respect for the rights of everyone. He was also an educated man who read a lot. Ladies and gentlemen, Jean Defraigne ensured that the rights of the opposition and freedom of expression were respected in Parliament. He did not hesitate to criticize the government, even when his own party was in power during the reign with special powers. We remember that he was fully committed to clearing out the Heyseldrama. In doing so, he was fully in his role as legislator and guardian of the Constitution. Political responsibility was essential to him. He also contributed to the federalisation of the country. His influence was decisive when a two-thirds majority was sought to amend the Constitution. In addition, he was actively involved in the Walloon Regional Council and the French Community Council. Jean Defraigne was also a brave man, brave in his fight against the opposition, but sometimes also within his own party. It is because of all his qualities that he was appointed Minister of State by the King. I also had the opportunity to express my condolences to his daughter, our colleague Christine, who, like her father, is taking on the delicate task of presiding over an assembly. On behalf of the government, I extend my deepest condolences to all of his family and loved ones.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to observe a moment's silence in memory of the former President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u6	Mr Nollet, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u7	Mr President, in order to organise our work, we had initially planned a mini-debate on the budget conclave and then asked the Prime Minister about a key issue, namely airport security. Clearly, questions had also been asked to Minister Galant by colleagues of the majority on Belgocontrol. I see that these issues were eventually directed to the Prime Minister while Minister Galant is present. My speech is not just about this aspect, but about the fact that new elements have come into the debate on airport safety. In order for this debate to be organised in an informed and transparent manner, we could use the mini-debate to disseminate these elements so that all colleagues can have them. I have them and I can bring them to you. These are two important pieces that show black on white that what Minister Galant said is not correct. I will also give them to the Prime Minister, in this way, we will have all the elements for the debate just now. But I would like to ask you now, because I think that the order of our work requires at least a little consultation between you and the various group leaders. Indeed, we were also able to discover that Ms. Lalieux here received an important letter from Mr. Ledoux. All this requires, beyond the topical debate, that we review the organisation of our work here in plenary, committee and committee of inquiry. I therefore ask you to take advantage of this afternoon's debates to organize our future work in the light of these new elements. I came to put two of them on the table immediately so that all colleagues and the Prime Minister would receive them. I think Mrs Lalieux received them as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u8	I'm going to look at these documents, Mr. Nollet. Are they public?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u9	Of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u10	Since these are apparently public documents, I will have them copied and distributed. In the meantime, we'll see what's going on. In any case, I must note that changing the agenda requires agreement from the Conference of Presidents. The Commission did not comment on this point. In any event, pending an opinion on this subject, I propose that we start the mini-debate on budgetary control.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u11	Mr President, it is true that yesterday evening, as chairman of the Committee on Infrastructure, I received a seven-page letter explaining the reasons for Mr Ledoux's resignation. Of course, I intended to pass it on to the members of the committee, but since new documents have been communicated, I will pass it on to you. It is an official document which it has also sent to the secretariat of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u12	In practical terms, is it the same document that you also sent us, Mr. Nollet?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u13	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u14	Mr President, we have received almost all of Mr Nollet's documents, but this is a single document, which I will make you bear.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u15	Mr President, yesterday I received a document, but I do not know if it is the same document that Mr Nollet has just given you. If that's the case, I don't think it's necessary for me to drop it off.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u16	I cannot judge this because I did not have time to consult these documents. Nevertheless... Mr. Calvo? You have a document, too?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u17	Mr President, you are right to say that Parliament's agenda can only be changed if the Conference of Presidents agrees. Mr Nollet delivered to you today the documents that Mr Van Hecke and Mr Hellings have published. A quick reading will teach you that Minister Galant lied to this Parliament and public opinion. That is why I would suggest that we suspend the sitting briefly, as you yourself suggested. Let us convene the Conference of Presidents and see how we can tackle today's agenda. I believe that it is time for transparency. Parliament must get into this right away. The best way is for us to take an orderly path, that of consultation. Then you can arrange the meeting in a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u18	What has just been proposed by Mr Nollet is to take advantage of the time needed, including for me, to look at the documents during the mini-debate on budgetary control and then decide whether or not to suspend the sitting for the Conference of Presidents. Both opposition and majority may in the meantime seek advice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u19	Mr. Chairman, at noon we learned that the parliamentarians of the majority CD&V/MR/N-VA/Open Vld had all addressed the same type of questions to the Minister of Mobility. I think it's pretty healthy. I now note that all questions have been somehow redirected to the Prime Minister. Why? Do my colleagues in the majority agree with this decision? I would remind you that you have the right to address a question to the Minister of your choice. It's important. Could we therefore be justified in this reversal of the situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u20	Mr President, two ministers have been involved in the Belgocontrol case and the question of the interruption of its operation. There is, of course, Minister Galant, but I have also asked the Minister of Employment to participate in the necessary conversations in order to find a solution. It is therefore legitimate for me to answer the questions when two ministers are concerned with this issue. I will give all the elements in the context of this question which is addressed to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Belgium is suffering, and that is obvious. She suffers from the violence that affected her on 22 March, from the suffering of the victims. She suffers from the fear of those who cherish our freedoms and fear for them and their children to live in a society of retreat. It suffers from a dull economy, while we were proud to have higher economic growth than the European average. Your policy drags us below this average and the consequences of the attacks will obviously reinforce this dynamic. Belgium suffers from the social confrontation in which your austerity choices plunged it. The Belgian model of social prosperity is disfigured. The social injustices, the difficulties in the lives of many of our fellow citizens, this feeling of no longer being taken into account in his life journey create daily tensions. In this context, you had a duty to carry out serious, solid and fair budget work; a job that reassures us! Now, you have done "anything": a budgetary inconsistency, where you promised to do so loudly. And to say that this government was getting tired of being able to impose better governance and finally redress public finances! What a failure! To restore balance in 2018, you had the challenge of finding $3.2 billion. From then on, you started the work by dividing the slate into two. A billion under the carpet! "We'll see in July or October to do it." Then you put 462 million in a cabinet: security expenses. This will not count in the structural balance. Yes, but as you make structural spending, sooner or later, the slate will count in the fiscal trajectory. You also challenged the numbers of the Monitoring Committee, re-evaluated the tax revenues in the technical corrections. You added non-structural for over 200 million. You have handed over the Diamant tax by increasing its yield while it is already contested by Europe, because it is, in fact, a state aid to Belgian diamondmakers. You put a tax on games and bets, while the jurisdiction is regional and you hand over, for the umpteenth time, the reform of the Sicafi regime without text and which, for this reason, had been excluded by the monitoring committee. So it's not serious. The account isn't there. You actually worked on about a billion euros. Europe had already found in March that there was a risk that the Belgian budget would violate European rules. You received a warning letter. You are further weakening our country, and that is not acceptable. The worst thing is that in this congruent, reduced portion of budget work, you're hounding at people. In the midst of the Panama Papers scandal, where we see billions escaping from public budgets because of tax fraud, at a time when you are giving yourself the luxury of appealing to a decision of the European Commission on the excess profit rules that had to bring to the state 700 million euros, while the BEL20 bosses do not know the index jump and grant themselves income increases of 20%, your government sets up on the podium of those who contribute the most to eliminate the budget hole workers, pensioners, sick people and civil servants. We really wonder how you're not embarrassed! Take the utilities. You can no longer save on justice, security, national defence. In the current situation, this would be a serious mistake. In short, in the great Regalian departments, you can no longer do anything, and yet you give a sum of 355 million savings, on the one hand, by this farce of the redesign and, on the other hand, by budgetary negligence. We wonder what you're gonna break as a public service to get there. Is the dismantling of the state included in your Atoma notebook? I think it's really time to play cards on the table. I said, to fill the hole, you chose to penalize the sick, the pensioners and the workers. Examples: 170 million on health care, of which about 60 million are pure and hard savings. I would say: where was Mrs De Block, who said on March 5th that if we push savings further, it will be on the patient's back? 122.5 million on the back of the disabled, to return them to work, using sanctions if necessary. What world do we live in? Another example is pensioners. After the decline of the legal age, the tightening of the conditions for access to the early survivor's pension, the abolition of the pension bonus, and I pass by, here is a new layer: the abolition of the preferential years and the inclusion of the years of study for public service pensions. Will Mr Bacquelaine still be able to say that for teachers, for example, this will not significantly reduce their pensions, while prolonging their careers? In addition, as usual, not only do you continue to consider the unemployed as profitors, almost inherently, but you also make decisions to harden access to economic unemployment in a time when it is so much needed to avoid bankruptcies and dismissals. Of the billion efforts you have made, 814 million are on the backs of the citizens. On the other hand, there is almost nothing in tax and a small 65 million from Panama Papers. Is that really credible? How are you going to do it? Mystery and gumball. Without specific measures, this performance will be impossible to achieve as it implies that investigations and recruitments will be closed in 2016. How do you want to calm the population by putting it in the grip of such fiscal and social injustice? In addition, labour law is modernised. For you to be modern, it's going back to the past. We're going to have to change the dictionary definitions. "Modernity" no longer equates to "Recent, current, which is of our time", in your vocabulary, it means "Old, recaptured from the past, archaic, outdated and outdated". One example is the overall reform of working hours. In 2001, Mr. Peeters was in front of me as a member of the Group of Ten. We had set the weekly working time at 38 hours per week. Everyone felt that it was a major step forward. Especially since a battery of measures made it possible to better reconcile private and professional life. Today, you are sweeping this reference by widening the derogations, allowing employers to ask their workers to work up to 50 hours a week or to work more overtime. Such examples are numerous in your work and part-time reform. What you are doing is reducing social progress, the quality of work, the position of the worker in the dialogue with his company: you are returning to the past century. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the time of its establishment, the government justified austerity by the need to achieve budgetary balance faster and to save, you said, our long-term social model. I see that the budgetary balance is moving away and that you are breaking the social model. Remain austerity, which you keep to protect the richest of our society and those who play with money. Citizens are increasingly satisfied with this choice, and they are right.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to keep to the agreed speaking time. The current government has started with the ambition to be a reform government. Budgetary control, which has just been completed, strongly underlines this ambition. The old model that has just been presented here, which is bursting with rigidity and a model that hinders job creation and activation rather than stimulates it, needs a thorough overhaul. This time too, serious initiatives have been taken, which our group very much welcomes. Three points stand out. I would like to highlight them very briefly here. The first concerns the activation of people who are in a long-term sickness facility today. In the past, we have created too much of a black and white situation in which people were either able to work fully or unable to work at all. Now, thanks to the efforts of the current government, we are increasingly evolving towards a model in which people are given the opportunity to activate. Too easily said and too easily given the impression that people are in a situation of support is a matter for the benefit of those concerned. However, everyone knows that even health is a good thing to help and guide people. The fact that responsibility is shared and that both employers and employees and health insurance funds are involved in this operation is a very important aspect of the agreement and is a very balanced package. Secondly, the decisions on unemployment, also important, also with a view to activation. In this area too easily the impression is given that savings would amount to reducing and reducing benefits, while savings can also be achieved by reducing the number of benefit recipients through activation policies or by strengthening the philosophy that people are building rights through their own activities. A number of measures have also been taken in this area, for example, to prevent a person from receiving full unemployment benefit after one day's work. The third point, which is particularly close to my heart, is the pension hatch. I think it's perfectly defendable. More than that, it is a matter of fundamental justice. This week it was noted that a young woman or man who is entering a career in education today will indeed have to work as long as those entering the labour market in other sectors. I believe that this is a matter of mutual solidarity. As far as older teachers are concerned, and in front of you, someone who can count on this category is still in his head, and that may be again someday, we are very pleased that teachers like me will have to work longer for a limited number of years if they have already made an end to their careers, but at the end of that effort they will receive a full pension, equivalent to the pension that is being awarded today. It is a very important balance for us that people accept their share of responsibility by working longer, without penalising them in their income as pensioners. In my view, the abolition of a number of systems such as unutilised sick days, which can later be converted into a kind of early retirement pension, can receive the support of anyone who wants everyone to be treated equally. Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I think that normal budgetary control is an exercise that shows less ambition than it has been today. In this context, I would also like to mention the initiatives of Minister Peeters on workable work. They receive our full support because they fit in with the approach that we have always wanted to put forward. I believe that this exercise, this budgetary control, has given rise to far more ambition than has usually been the case. Above all, I should like to express the hope that its implementation should not lead to the erosion of the courageous measures that have been decided on at present and that they will be implemented in full force and in full force as a law, as a royal decree or in any form whatsoever, so that the power of change that this government actually radiates can also be translated into practice. I would like to give this warning on behalf of our group.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u23	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the MR Group welcomes the agreement reached within the government on budgetary control. This is a serious and credible work which, I would remind you, has been carried out under difficult circumstances. This work revolves around two strong axes. Firstly, the need to combine the government's imperatives by respecting European budgetary commitments. Secondly, the implementation of the government's top priority of creating jobs through structural reforms. With regard to the first axis aimed at meeting our commitments to return to balanced budgets in 2018, the budgetary measures decided represent an effort of EUR 2.2 billion, as noted by the Supervisory Committee. The government clearly reaffirms its commitment to achieving a structural improvement of 0.6% of GDP in 2016. It should be stressed that this important effort is achieved, on the one hand, by fully preserving labour income and allowances and, on the other hand, without any new tax on employment and the citizen's purchasing power. In addition, this effort will be made by strengthening measures in the fight against tax fraud and by setting up a working group of finance and justice experts to monitor the phenomenon of tax construction. Efforts are also being made to support the economic sectors affected by the attacks so as to preserve employment in our country. This is obviously particularly important. In addition, the objectives defined in the context of the tax slide are maintained in particular, which will strengthen the purchasing power of workers and help create employment through increased competitiveness. In addition, in terms of security, the government has fully confirmed the €400 million provision, of which €300 million has already been allocated. Finally, expenditure on asylum and the fight against terrorism has been neutralised following a green light from Europe. However, by developing a phasing-in to re-integrate recurrent expenditure into the structural balance, our government proves that it is cautious about the trajectory of such expenditure. The second major focus of this fiscal adjustment is the introduction of structural reforms that create jobs. As part of the 2016 budget, a shift tax had been developed. Today, as part of the budgetary adjustment, the modernisation of the labour market is targeted. The objective is clear: to provide more flexibility for businesses, while at the same time promoting work that can be done for workers, and thus finally to reconcile the world of work with the economic realities of the 21st century and the changes in family and social life. You have managed, Prime Minister, with your government, to propose a win win win model in which we simply find common sense measures. Common sense, quite simply, than the annualization of working time. The reform which will be operational from next year will allow working time to be calculated on an annual basis rather than on a weekly basis, as is the case today. It is simply more flexibility in our companies to create more competitiveness. Thus, not all workers will see their working time increase steadily from 38 to 45 hours. Saying this is a mistruth. A second measure of common sense is the career account. Each worker will receive a credit of 100 overtime hours which he will no longer be obliged to recover. Workers will then have the choice to be paid or to place these hours in a career account so that they can dispose of them later as they see fit. This is called more freedom and more responsibility. The third common sense measure is training. This is a very important aspect for our group because we believe that a worker must be able to continue to train throughout his career in order to remain successful and continue to bring added value to the company. There are still many other common-sense measures, such as occasional telework, temporary indeterminate work, which will simply bring more security to workers in the temporary sector. Who could be against this measure? There are also floating schedules, leave donations, an initiative that comes from my colleague, Sybille de Coster, but also a whole series of adaptations to leave schemes, such as adoption leave. These various reforms can, of course, be modified in the light of sectoral agreements. The aim is to make our businesses more competitive, to allow them to adapt to economic hazards, and to help workers to better reconcile work and family life. Before concluding, I cannot finish this speech, ladies and gentlemen, without addressing the issue of social consultation. We keep repeating it. Social consultation is essential for us. It makes it possible to deal with cases by having the opinions, the positions, the remarks both from the point of view of the employer and the trade union. And that is a good thing because it is by working in this way that it is possible to move forward. Prime Minister, do you confirm that the social partners will be involved in this important reform for our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u24	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, carrying out budgetary control when the wind blows as a result of a disappointing economic situation is not a walk in the park. That was certainly not the case now either. The growth we had assumed in the drafting of the budget was weaker than expected, which has helped us. That's why we needed adjustments. Colleagues, we are doing these adjustments. The budget remains on course. That was our starting point when we went to the voters, and that remains our starting point throughout the legislature. Ladies and gentlemen, structural measures are expected from us. We'll take it. We do that in terms of savings. We do that in terms of new revenue. We do this with structural reforms. The combination of all this is sometimes not easy, but balanced. Let me look at these structural measures, starting with those relating to work. We need to reform the labour market. Indeed, we can score better in terms of exit from the labour market and we can score better in terms of the employment rate of, for example, low-skilled people, immigrants or people with disabilities. What is wrong with it, ladies and gentlemen, when, for example, employees agree with their employer on 100 overtime hours and want to see paid or in a career savings account for another time? What's wrong with them investing in their homes or in their children's studies? And yes, it's good that we get rid of abuse. It is out of the question, ladies and gentlemen, that wages should be increased just before dismissal, just so that the person concerned would receive higher unemployment benefits. What is wrong with more control over the correct application of the time loan? That's fair. Can I get out of the way of a misunderstanding? We don't change the legal terms of time-credit. The government supports parents who want to care for their children when they are ill. We're extending care leave by three months. The government supports workers who want to assist their dying parents palliatively. We're extending the palliative leave by a month. We just want better legislation to be properly applied. Yes, we will calculate the overtime schedule on an annual basis. Moreover, more than 1 million workers in our country already do this, and this shows that employers and workers in the workplace have a great deal of common sense. They will also show this with the new arrangement later, thanks to the extension of the menu, together and in consultation with each other. But can I clear up a misunderstanding here, too? The 38-hour working week remains and is not abolished. The arrangements for overtime remain unchanged. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, I have just heard that we went back a century with the regulation on overtime. Mind if I freshen up the memory? Who extended the internal border regime for overtime a few years ago? Right, that was the Di Rupo government. She was right to do so, and we are just moving forward in the right direction. It is also good that companies invest in their employees and in the development of talent. But can I, Prime Minister, specifically ask you and your Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour to monitor their application and their enforceability, in consultation with the social partners? I shall now turn to the Minister for Pensions and to the important dossier which does indeed call for commotions, which is longer working. Working longer is easier said than done. The measures we are proposing are part of the report by the Vandenbroucke Committee. Minister of Pensions, last week you received the social partners, the trade union delegations. You have committed yourself to developing, in addition to a scheme relating to the cost-effective breach of pensions, one for the heavy-duty professions. You have committed yourself to seeking alternatives to pensions in the event of physical incapacity. Well, our question to you is to continue the consultation on the transitional measures. The course of a round of Flanders is not changed in the middle of the final; we will not change it with the government either. Continue consultations, inter alia, on harmonization of diploma certificates. Continue consultations on the heavy-duty professions in the National Pensions Commission. Mr Pension Minister, consultations also continue with the Länder. It is, after all, sensitive in the field of education. Together with everyone in our assembly, we explicitly want to keep the profession of teacher attractive. So we will take into account the concerns that live in the teachers' rooms. Mr Prime Minister, I come to the last chapter, taxation. Since the formation of the government, the world of taxation has changed with LuxLeaks, SwissLeaks and Panama Papers. What used to be naive if we didn't do it today is unacceptable if we do. Prime Minister, our group has been calling for more fiscal justice from day one of your government. We'll keep doing that. Last week's statements by the Minister of Finance show us that he is following us and supporting us, which we are very pleased with. I said in the policy statement last October that the expected revenue on caiman tax, banking tax and diamond tax should be met. We will see to that. The government has also repeated this, which I think makes sense. Now, ladies and gentlemen, that will require more than announcements. Announcements must be transposed into legislation. But even that won't do. This also requires new initiatives, otherwise we will not get the figures. These figures are essential for us and are part of the tax-shift agreement. This requires additional efforts, additional efforts that we also expect in the fight against tax fraud. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, after the Panama Papers, we are asking you to step up a few gears. It is unacceptable that we should demand efforts from the workers, workers or the self-employed, while a few people do the dance. Mr President, I will conclude. Budgetary control does not increase the burden on those who work. Budgetary control requires efforts from those who smoke, diesel or gamble. Budgetary control continues to focus on economic growth with social progress. It will also have to continue to focus on greater fiscal justice. Prime Minister, you have made a heavy classic and successfully completed, but in a short space of time you will still have a big round of mountain stages and heavy cols. We will support you in that. We will be your ally to keep budgets on track, your ally not to forward the invoices to future generations and your ally to get more tax justice in this country and throughout the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u25	Mr Prime Minister, last weekend you reached an agreement on budgetary control in difficult circumstances. The terrorist attacks that have hit our country have required a great deal of your attention. The additional expenditure you have had to spend on security and on refugees has also made the exercise difficult, but you have brought it to a successful conclusion. My group has from the outset called for a serious exercise, an exercise in which three principles were central. The first principle is that we must stick to the budgetary path agreed with Europe. The second principle is that we should focus on structural reforms instead of one-off measures. The third principle is that when everyone turns on their own doorstep, the street is clean. With this budgetary control and these structural reforms, you have shown that this government is a real reform government. For the first 18 months, you've been focusing on lower charges. Lower burdens for people who work, to give people more net. Lower burdens for people who work to create more jobs. Last weekend, you added a third chapter, a new corporate tax with a special focus on our SMEs. These lower burdens are important to stimulate our economy, but they are only one side of the coin. Equally important is modernising our labour market. Let us be honest, for the employment of white men and women between 25 and 55 years old, our country is doing very well, but when it comes to the employment of those other groups, those with lower education or those with a foreign origin, there is a problem in our country. That is why we need to give these people more opportunities. This is what labour market reform is about: integrating everyone into the labour market. The nualisation of working time offers a perspective because, among other things, it gives workers freedom to adapt their work to the family. Let me give you an example: co-parenting. If the children stay with one parent one week, the parent can work a little less. The opposite is true for the other parent. He could work a little more that week. It gives workers tools to be more autonomous and thus to better organise their working lives. What does the opposition do? The opposition is screaming murder and fire as if we were calling into question centuries-old achievements, as if the employee were once again the slave of the pattern. Nothing could be further from the truth. Mr Verherstraeten has already said it. Today 1 million people can already benefit from the system of annualisation of working time. Moreover, over the last 20 years, every government has incorporated the principle of annualisation into its coalition agreement. It is this government that is implementing this measure. In addition to the labour market, we also need to modernise our economy. Time does not stand still, fellow Members. The economy is changing at a very fast pace. It is Minister De Croo who will develop a framework for the collaborative economy to ensure that people can work at lower costs and with less administrative burdens. After the successful flexi jobs of Minister Peeters and Secretary of State Tommelein, it is now time for flexi self-employed people. These people can be active in the collaborative economy so that they can hopefully later become self-employed in the secondary or main occupation. Colleagues, on this other structural reform too, public pensions were made very miserable. Let me first say this: Minister Bacquelaine's pension reforms make sense. It has been decided and the reforms have been implemented. The figures are right with the government. They ensure that our pension system is and remains affordable in the long term. That is the merit of this pension reform. Those who think the stocking is finished with that are mistaken. We still need to implement reforms because we need to bring the various statutes of employees, civil servants and self-employed people closer together. We will. My group believes that it is no longer the time for people to retire at the age of 55. Advantageary preferential systems and tantièmes also need to be adapted. Of course, public pensions also need to be reformed. Just so we're clear, we're not gonna cut the pension payments. However, we ask that the rules of the game be equal for everyone. We are doing so for the only reason that we want to preserve social security. We want to think about the next generations. That's social, that's social policy. Then what's antisocial? It is antisocial when someone twists into all kinds of turns, through Panama, through the Virgin Islands or through God knows what channel, to hide his wealth from the tax authorities. That is antisocial and unjust. Our group is clear on this. If people choose the comfort of living, working, entrepreneurship and enjoying social security in Belgium, then these people have to pay taxes here. It is simple: either they live here and pay taxes here, or they pack their bags and leave for Panama. Then choose that country, choose to live there and pay taxes there. Prime Minister, some say that this government is just bickering. Some say this government only has an eye for elections. Some even speculated on the fall of the government. They have gone astray! This government plans, decides and implements. This government chooses reforms because it chooses the future. That holds this government together: reform to give the country a future again. That is why we will support you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u26	Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, this government would put things in order, this government would do something really different. Let us quote two examples. It would put the budget in order once and for all and the economy would grow because there would be a recovery policy from day one. Ladies and gentlemen, what do we see after a year and a half of Michael's government? Economic growth has long been below the European average. I'll say below the European average. Inflation in our country is very high, as one of the few countries in Europe. As far as the budget is concerned, 2016 was only two months busy or there was a 2 billion hole in the budget. The current budgetary control is again a very difficult task for this government. What this government forgets is that it owes the deficits entirely to itself. The large number of invoices imposed on citizens creates, of course, a problem of purchasing power and increases inflation. Prime Minister, if you enter in your budget some amounts of income that your own administration says are unfeasible, it is not difficult to understand that at some point the Monitoring Committee suggests urgent control, because there are major deficits. You have introduced a tax shift, of which not only the opposition but also a part of your majority say that it has not been financed. It is not surprising, therefore, that the budget is derailed and that budgetary control needs to look for 3 billion. You have just moved 1 billion of them to the future, and now you have to look for 2 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, budgetary control is here now. Will this budgetary control provide a solution? Unfortunately, the answer is no. Budgetary control is completely unbelievable and, above all, unfair. You will recall that at a certain point in time the Monitoring Committee pointed out that there is a lot of air in the budget, because a number of figures are completely unfeasible. That remark was made in March 2016. What are you doing in budgetary control? You just reinsert the air into it. Prime Minister, let me give you some examples in case you have doubts about these matters. EUR 250 million will be re-implemented for the real estate agencies. EUR 50 million will also be re-introduced for carat tax. Colleagues, do you remember that carat tax would be a certain income? Not the fraud and not the income of the diamondaires wanted to tax the government. No, it would introduce the carat tax, which would yield a certain income of EUR 50 million per year. In 2015, this tax did not generate revenue. In 2016, she was removed from the budget. After all, the government called for it to wait for Europe, which might make this EUR 50 million unfeasible. What does budgetary control do? It simply rewrites that amount of EUR 50 million for carat tax. EUR 100 million will be entered for redesign. On this point, too, the majority, even a member of the government, has admitted that this amount will be very difficult to achieve. Nothing has worked out so far. There's barely a little A4 over there. What does budgetary control do? She's just re-subscribing that amount. On the revenue from the Cayman tax, you remember that this tax would first yield EUR 120 million, after which the government added an additional EUR 340 million. In this context, the current budgetary control will add EUR 70 million to the budget. However, the own administration indicates that it is very unlikely that this amount will be met. In short, ladies and gentlemen, this budgetary exercise is completely unbelievable. I have not yet mentioned the speculative tax on which you have also indicated that this tax would generate a certain amount of income. However, it is now clear that there are many possibilities for circumvention, as is the case with other taxes. Colleagues, will you fight it? No, you let that go, but you leave the amount in the budget. As far as taxation is concerned, you will recall that the Council of State, on our question, deleted the previous regulation. There will be a new regulation, but it will not come now until July 2016. However, what amount is registered? A full amount shall be entered for a full year. In other words, that amount will not be met either. The air that was removed from the budget in March 2016 was re-established in April 2016. Unbelievable and unfair! Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, where will you save again? I've been talking about income. Where will you save? Will you look at those who have parked their money in Panama and evade taxes here? Will you look into that? No, ladies and gentlemen, you have only subscribed 65 million for this. This is very characteristic, not just for the government, but for the budget. Sign up 65 million you'll get from the fraudsters, but with the sick more than double. That is what characterizes this government: getting where it shouldn't be made and not getting where it really is. Unbelievable and unfair! Ladies and gentlemen, the long-term sick are being sanctioned. Care for a sick child will have to be discussed in the future with my fellow Members. From now on, a young construction worker who cannot work due to the weather conditions will have no income. Next to the 38-hour week, something that families certainly rely on in small SMEs to be able to combine work and family life. In the future one will depend on what the employer asks. This is unacceptable to us. Now let's look at pensions. A colleague has just asked for consultations with the Regions to be started. May I remind you that yesterday a debate took place in the Flemish Parliament and that the Flemish Government, through Minister Crevits, demanded that this measure of your government be looked at further? Should measures be taken to finance the ageing of the population in the future? Of course. We are the first to go along with that. But do things always have to be placed with ordinary citizens? No. If you are referring to the Vandenbroucke report, you should read it again. What is essential in that? Three cases. First of all, we need to work longer. Working longer also means that there must be workable work. What does this government do? She's making it maneuverable. That's something completely different from workable work. Secondly, you do not reform pensions, you make savings. That's something else. If we want to reform pensions, the report says, we need to consult widely. We need broad support. What are you doing? You will introduce measures and then you will consult. A third case in the pension report is the question of where to get the money. The report makes it very clear that this must not only be done by the wage and wagers, but also by the assets. Dear government, you've forgotten that for a moment. Mr President, I will conclude. Colleagues, what is the government doing? Minister, your budget is full of air, it is unfair to the citizens, who have already had to turn in a great deal and who will have to turn in more thanks to the proposed budget. It's the well-known recipe. Once again, I would like to repeat one sentence: you will get 65 million from the Panamanian fradors and you will get more than twice as much from the sick. That's your budgetary control.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u27	Mr Prime Minister, the debate does not just give you time to think about how you deal with a minister who apparently has a hard time telling the truth, but the debate itself is very important. You are a young Prime Minister, the youngest in history, if I am not mistaken. However, you are particularly conservative when it comes to meeting locations. Like the first ministers of the 1990s, Jean-Luc Dehaene at the time, you chose Hertoginnedal. The plumber's workshop from that time has also become the workshop of the plumbers who run our country today. The annoying effect of negotiating in castles is that there is a certain world weirdness and that there is less touch with reality. It seems that the negotiations have been so difficult that your majority and your ministers have not even been able to read the newspapers of recent weeks. Apparently they missed Panama Papers on Duchess Valley. Apparently, it has not been discovered that there is a huge problem of tax evasion, of tax fraud. May I advise you not to meet at Duchess Valley anymore? Choose a different location and if you persist and meet again at Hertoginnedal, please make sure that Wi-Fi is available. Mr Verherstraeten, in your well-known style, you have made a fervent plea for the choices, for budgetary control and for the direction taken by the majority, and frankly I do not understand that. With regard to the air in the budget, I shall be delighted to address you later, Mr Van Rompuy, I look forward to it. Mr Verherstraeten, I do not understand how a Christian Democrat can be proud of a budget in which Panama Papers is looking for an additional EUR 65 million on tax fraud and EUR 122 million on long-term ill. Is that your social project? Is this the social face of Mr Peeters: getting more in social security, getting more from long-term sick than from tax tourists in Panama? I don't understand. The majority persistently continues the course of injustice. Secondly, in order to do Mr Van Rompuy a favour, I would like to mention the budgetary discipline of the majority. Mrs Wilmès, you have not been given an easy inheritance, it is a difficult task to be a Minister for the Budget, but that does not mean that you have to deal with it in a casual way. The lack of Wi-Fi in Hertoginnedal also apparently prevented you from reading the Monitoring Committee's report in a serious way. Mr Van Rompuy, you said, in your personal struggle with Mr Van Overtveldt, that billions are missing, that the budget is wrong, but today you are applauding for a budget full of vagueness, full of uncertainties. I'd be happy to go over them with you. You're chairman of the Treasury Chambers Committee. Has tax regularisation already been approved? No, that hasn't happened yet. And yet the government says it's counting on 250 million euros to close that hole. I'll take a look at the diamond tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u28	Mr Van Rompuy, you have one minute for a personal statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u29	Mr Calvo, by way of example, whether tax regularization will be approved in April or July, one can only do so once this year. This has no monthly effect, it is perfectly possible to collect 250 million in July, it is not the case that January and February have been lost, it can be done once, it can only be done once in a lifetime. Mr Calvo, those slogans and the fact that you keep talking about numbers without knowing what's behind them are my throats! [[Applause on the benches of the majority]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u30	We are experiencing an historic moment: the N-VA Group applauds Eric Van Rompuy, because he is defending the unjust choices of the N-VA majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u31	You must be serious.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u32	I'm serious, though, in this scenario. I know, Mr Van Rompuy, how tax regularisation works, but there is no framework yet. I hope, moreover, that we will be able to stop that framework. Moreover, after the Panama Papers, I would expect you and Mr Verherstraeten to stop both of you. Moreover, fiscal regulation is only one of the uncertainties. Is there a green light from Europe for the diamond tax? No, there is no green light from Europe yet. Still, it's got the diamond tax in it. Mr Van Rompuy, do you think it is serious, as Parliament's budgetary conscience, that EUR 400 million for security expenditure should be kept out of the budget, as a so-called one-off expenditure, as if we were not going to have to carry out these additional investments in security next year? You'll let all that pass. Before budgetary control, CD&V had a lot of talk. There was once a time when that party wanted a fair contribution to the great abilities. She doesn't talk about that anymore today. For budgetary control, Mr Van Rompuy, you were there to say that the figures are wrong. Soon you will press the green button and support budgetary control with vagueness and uncertainties. That is CD&V's, on the one hand, policy, a spineless party, at the expense of ordinary citizens and employees. Prime Minister, you are proud that the government is a reform government. You say that you have not only solved the budgetary problem, but you have also decided on structural reforms. I've been looking for it. As you know, Mr Jambon, I am not a fan of your political spirit.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u33	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u34	You are aware of this, but I welcome the fact that Mr Van Overtveldt is drawing up a plan to make corporate taxation fairer and simpler. I support that reform. Other reforms on workable work................................................................................................................................................................ You do not answer the broad call for workable work. You've fooled us for months. You said for months that a plan was coming. What are we getting today? More flexibility, even harder work and less freedom. I hear the Liberals saying: fantastic, one will be able to look after the children. We get great visuals on Facebook and Twitter, far away from the reality of what you voted today. The story of leave days has become a symbol of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u35	Being so conservative at your age, that's...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u36	Speaking of age, Mr Van Quickenborne, it seems that you have been in Parliament for so long now that you are no longer in touch with how difficult it is sometimes for workers in the workplace. For a mayor and a Member of Parliament it is easy to say agile work, flexibility. (Protests from Mr Van Quickenborne)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u37	Finish, Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u38	Mr Van Quickenborne, it is easy for politicians to sell theories about workable work. [[Rumor]] I am trying to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to listen to Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, I am glad to see what is happening here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u41	Mr Calvo, there will be nothing left to see in a minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u42	One in five fellow countrymen struggle with a burn-out during his career. One in three is confronted with stress in the workplace. The largest fraction of our country laughs at this and is happy about it. So, Mr Peeters, we are very disappointed with what you have presented. One of your measures is that you can exchange leave days. That's not my society. In my society, there's more than just working. In my society, Mr Van Quickenborne, employees do not know when to work until 24 hours in advance. No, employees have the right to take their children to the dentist, to take them to the sports club. That's my society. That's my belief. That is our belief. The budget must be in order, but it can also be done in a fair and humane way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u43	Prime Minister, during the great fiscal year that you gave yourself to the press on Saturday, everything looked simple and beautiful. There is a world between what is said in the press conference and what can be read later. Of course, the information appears to the dropper, but the more we learn about it, the more we become aware of the seriousness of the situation. The foundations of the initial 2016 budget were not solid and that is the least we can say. Nor are adjustment policies. When we read a series of points in your budget adjustment, we are very sceptical. Indeed, we doubt that it is possible to achieve fiscal balance in 2018. We are also sceptical about the issue of tax shift financing. Of course, the tax system has been activated, but, with regard to the reduction of labour costs or the PPI, the sources of funding were lacking and are still lacking at the present time. Similarly, we remain sceptical in hearing you regularly refer to the same amounts, although these have clearly been rejected by the monitoring committee. With regard to the Cayman tax or the redesign of administrations, you continue to assert things that are overturned by the monitoring committee! This is still skepticism when you use the image of budgetary prudence by referring to budgetary "under-utilization". What does that mean? This is still a famous amount! In practice, however, a simple projection makes it possible to calculate that all your expenses will be frozen from 13 September. As of that date, you decide that there will be no more expenses and that your administrations will no longer work! Needless to say, it's not serious. It's a facade! You built your budget adjustment on foundations as unstable as your original budget. Then you fooled the citizens who are now expected at the turn! It is a real disillusionment to realize that the promises you have made are now completely undermined. In the area of terrorism, as a result of the serious attacks we have experienced, you have said loud and clear that you are going to catch up with the delay and the serious shortcomings in terms of resources in the justice, police and intelligence sectors. These amounts to EUR 400 million. Today, the picture confirms this and I heard your Minister of Justice on a large French-language radio station a few days ago. Clearly, you're making one shot with that 400 million euros. In fact, I heard one of your colleagues earlier saying that you had the European authorisation. That is a significant element, as the Minister of Justice said. As if the fight against terrorism could stop at the end of 2016. Illusion again: the Minister for Social Affairs had come to make big statements about the fact that it was no longer possible to look for means in social security. A small third, 28 per cent exactly, are savings in the social security, health and pension departments. And yet, it seems to me, you made great promises. I take two examples. The plan to reintegrate the sick into work. We have had debates about it, as well as with the social partners. You wanted a mandatory model with sanctions. Finally, there had been an agreement and the promise of a voluntary return to work without sanctions. Yet here, clearly, your budget table reflects that it is a mandatory system with sanctions. Another example: Mr. Minister of Employment, you are offering us extensions of time credits for reasons, especially for sick children and palliative care. What an illusion! You say it's not going to cost anything. I've never seen time credits that cost nothing. But worse here, not only would it cost you nothing, but better, it pays you, since you have planned an economy based on these time credits, while boasting outside that these time credits would be extended. It's a nice pass trick, it's obviously an illusion. Citizens cannot be fooled in this way. Illusion again and again with regard to pensions in view of the promises made and, in particular, that of moving forward on heavy and painful jobs! I heard colleagues on the CD&V correctly point out the impact of decisions on teachers, but thousands of others are affected by the preferences. Again, the government is breaking a promise to at least concertation, but also a promise to move forward in a completely different way. I was hoping very much in the area of employment. If I had much hope, it was because, Mr. Minister of Employment, the ten measures you put forward on 10 February were interesting points to discuss. Today, of course, this is a disappointment, because Kern, in this list of ten measures, has sorted it out in a totally unbalanced way between employers and workers. In addition, you have completely stifled this global balance, which was of particular interest in the ten measures proposed on 16 February. Disappointment too, because you have decided to do this sort without consulting the social partners. I thought that with a CD&V minister working on employment, you would be keen to respect social consultation and implement your promises to put these ten measures on the table before the social partners and to work with them. I will allow myself to make a strong request. Have courage! Take back, Mr Minister, the list of the ten employment measures and, above all, put them in debate with the social partners! This will allow you with their expertise, aiming for fairness and balance to move forward on labour modernization. But modernising work also means flexibility, flexibility, but also more balance between private and professional life. This is the concept of flexicurity. In this area, it is above all a balance between the two that really makes it possible to modernise this work. I quickly come to my conclusion. We have seen this lack of seriousness at the time of the initial budget and we find it here. Your numbers are virtual. We also found a lack of fairness. Again, you give an extra turn in this direction. You are adding to the "two-weight, two-measure" between citizens, between those who work, pay their taxes and make efforts, and those who can escape it. You are also double standards, not reaching the balance between employers and workers. You continue to deceive us about the reality of the budget, about fairness in the efforts requested, and disappoint us about employment. Prime Minister, know that even the best illusionists are reluctant to repeat the same round several times in front of the same audience. It is time to stop your tricks and show yourself to the expectations of the citizens, to speak true and to act true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the various speeches and for the comments made. At the outset, I want to point out that this government wants to be the bearer of a forward-looking political project. Budgeting is the way to check how we succeed in implementing a number of commitments that have a direct impact on the country's future, on our citizens, on SMEs and on businesses. I admit that was a difficult moment in very difficult circumstances. On March 8, we took note of the report of the Monitoring Committee together with you. We have well understood that it was necessary, that it was crucial to achieve a serious and credible exercise. We did. We have taken the time to look, line by line, at how it was possible to keep track of our budget on the one hand. On the other hand, we have also made important decisions for structural reforms with structural effects, not only in 2016, but also in 2017, 2018 and 2019. I am also thinking of pensions for the following years, after 2020 and until 2030. That is the reality, that is what we have realized. I would also like to inform you that we have left this report of the Monitoring Committee. Some say: "You have chosen ease. You took the 2 billion euros and a few and not the 3 billion and a few identified." I'll be clear about that. We have done more than Europe is asking us to do. We have fulfilled our own commitments which are higher than Europe is asking us, since we are carrying out a budgetary exercise of 0.6% in terms of structural efforts not for entity I, the federal state only, while Europe is asking for this, but for the whole country, entity I and entity II, which shows that we have been cautious. Secondly, in relation to this remark, I would also like to highlight the fact that the structural reforms decided on have multi-annual effects that will, in some cases, be exponential and will therefore support the efforts that we will have to make in the coming weeks and months to prepare the 2017 and subsequent budgets. We therefore remain on these ambitious tracks to try, as we said in the government agreement, to achieve the objective of budgetary balance in 2018, despite a report by the Supreme Council of Finance after the budgetary agreements that evokes two possible options and, including, an option that would achieve fiscal balance in 2019. That is the choice of responsibility that has been decided! Ladies and gentlemen, what else have we done in this exercise? Budgetary control is also a moment, an opportunity to check whether the decisions have been implemented. Part of our credible exercise was to look at how it is possible to implement our decisions in practice in the short term in recent months. We have done so for savings, but also for tax revenue. We've worked hard. We have done everything we can to achieve a serious and credible exercise. I give some examples to answer your questions. Some said that, in the Panama case, the government would only provide €65 million and added that it was much less than what is programmed for the sick. This is simply incorrect! We are the first government to make a political commitment to introduce a transparency tax. Thanks to this insight tax, this caiman tax and the additional efforts in the fight against tax fraud, it will be possible to raise 500 million euros in 2016. That is our intention! There is a big difference between EUR 65 million on the one hand and the reality of EUR half a billion on the other. That's what we're trying to do with the look-through tax. In the same way, we continue to work technically to succeed in convincing the European Union with regard to the Diamond tax and to levy tomorrow more taxes in the sector than was the case yesterday. We have worked very seriously to see how the EUR 250 million in taxation could be implemented in connection with certain schemes in the real estate sector. We will have the opportunity to explain in committee how precisely we will achieve the objectives for which this performance potential exists. We have also made decisions on games and betting. This is a federal jurisdiction because it is VAT. Finally, I come to the political level. For us, for the four majority parties, the full confirmation of the tax shift was important. The tax shift means a clear choice, a clear signal, a clear direction. In 2015, we made structural decisions to reduce the burden on labour. This has been fully implemented with our exercise: in 2016 there will be 4.7 billion euros for purchasing power, for competitiveness and in the long term also for the abolition of the wage handicap with our neighbouring countries. Nor do we forget the situation of small businesses. SMEs are the backbone of our economy. That is why we have taken the decision on the zero contribution to the first recruitment. The burden on labour is also substantially reduced for the first six recruitments. Those measures have all been confirmed. I would now like to address a number of additional points. That is the spirit of the government's government agreement that we have decided to strengthen in this fiscal work. Moreover, it did not limit itself to an accounting exercise of additions and subtractions. We wanted to use this political moment to prepare another appointment, that of July, when we will make the 2017 budget by putting on track structural reforms, some of which had been prepared for several months – you are right, Mrs Fonck. The first structural reform: the labour market and employment. We are convinced – and I hope that some here read the same reports as us and observe the impact in terms of costs – that for competitiveness it is important to make reforms that do not have costs and relax the labour market, so as to make it more agile to meet two objectives. Firstly, to allow our small, medium and large enterprises to adapt to the reality of economic life and its transformations, while taking better account of the situation of workers; secondly, to better coincide working life with family and private life. These elements are fully taken into account in these balanced commitments. And we are going further than ever before in terms of training by setting objectives and creating conditions for training to be truly taken into account as an investment in human capital, as an added value for the country as a whole. The annualisation of working time, the relaxation of overtime... If it was so unrealistic, why have certain sectors, representing a large number of workers, already paved the way for annualisation for a long time? I want to be very clear on this. We have done a huge amount of work to start this reform. It is our intention to fully respect social dialogue. In the last few months, we have always proved, even on subjects where this was not evident, that we remain open to positive, constructive and balanced social dialogue. Everyone takes on their responsibilities, each playing its part, both in Parliament and in the government, and also in the social partners. We take that reality into account. This is important, especially for the discussion on the labour market. One part of these reforms can be implemented, another part will be the subject of important discussions with the social partners. In the same way, disability and disability, we continue to implement reforms. Here too, we wish to be able to maintain the dialogue which has begun for several months with the social partners on this subject. Finally, the important issue of pensions must be raised. It is true that these reforms are difficult, not popular in the short term, easy to caricature. But reforming pensions today means making decisions that will have an effect in the coming years, which will make this country able to consolidate its social protections. I am not dreaming of a country in which, in twenty or thirty years, we will say: "Because they did not dare twenty or thirty years ago, we can no longer pay pensions, we can no longer pay for health care." Our responsibility is to prepare for the future and with pension reform, with the social partners, we are doing it! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is not all. We have also taken decisions to prepare the work of the next few months. The sharing economy, the economy of the future. In this respect, there is an evolution in our country and the rest of Europe. This should increasingly become the objective, and we have also taken decisions in this area to create a framework that offers a perspective for this new form of economy. I come to another example, which concerns student entrepreneurs. This was a reality that was not organised by any framework. So we decided to work in the coming months to develop one that would support and encourage students to engage in economic activities. We also very much wished for the debate on the test clause in employment contracts. Out of respect for the social partners, we have asked for an evaluation to be carried out after this summer. The aim is to see if it makes sense to change the rules in order to promote employment and to combat possible perverse effects in this field. Another important point is that we were faced with a very difficult challenge, security. The issue of security and the proper functioning of justice are very important challenges for the future. We have fully assumed our responsibilities. The security commission is 400 million euros in 2016, on top of the 200 million euros of 2015. These commissions are fully confirmed. Mrs Fonck, I would like to correct you. This error is probably due to an incomprehension of an action plan. The provisions neutralised at European level make a good distinction between the structural and the non-structural share. Europe adds an additional subtlety by saying that, for asylum and security, one can speak of recurrent or non-recurring, as many other European countries do. We have had previous conversations with the European Commission and we have pushed the seriousness to take into account the structural share of these expenditure by staggering it over 2016 for one part and 2017 for another. We have therefore been precise and careful on the subject. Here too, the debates in committee will make it clear. Last but not least, it was also important for this government to send a strong signal to the economic sectors in difficulty after the attacks in Brussels and Zaventem. There, too, we have sent a clear signal with the four competent ministers to postpone the burden on labour. The four ministers concerned, namely the Minister for Employment, the Minister for Social Affairs, the Minister for SMEs and the independents and the Minister for Finance, will, together with the sectors concerned, implement the capacity to postpone charges in order to give oxygen in the form of cash to companies which, today, suffer considerably from the effects of these attacks in Brussels. It is now necessary to achieve two objectives at the same time. On the one hand, it is important to continue working on our structural reform. This is a question of credibility. The intention is not to transfer the invoices to the next generations. On the other hand, at the same time, it is important to work out reforms in view of the revival of our economy and of employment. We need to develop reforms with the prospect of job creation. This is the best guarantee for the financing of our social model. And we are well aware that following these two objectives at the same time, fiscal consolidation on the one hand and economic recovery on the other, to be carried out in parallel, is not simple. Measures taken for one objective may interfere with the other objective. Our responsibility is to make every effort to make progress in both directions: fiscal consolidation at the service of economic recovery and vice versa. We also have the will to finance our social protections over the long term. The real social commitment today is to be responsible and to take the decisions that will underpin tomorrow's ability to assume our duties in terms of social protection. This project is more than ever all looking to the future. It is not an accounting exercise, but a political project, with a majority that has, it is true, overcome a delicate and difficult obstacle. We come out strengthened in our ability to decide, and we know that there will still be a lot of work to be done over the coming months and years. We're ready. We will continue, with great determination, foresight and lucidity, to follow the course and direction we have taken, for we know that the path we have taken is the right path. Thank you for the support, thank you for the trust!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u45	Thank you, Prime Minister. Are there any fellow Members who wish to replicate? Mrs. Onkelinx?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u46	Mr President, what I have heard about the budget is still surreal. Mr Verherstraeten, and the Prime Minister has obviously gone in this direction, says: the budget remains on its course. At least that's not what the monitoring committee says. This is certainly not what Europe says, which sent you a warning letter. And, since I haven't had an answer, I want to know how you're going to do it, as you keep in the interviews, in your documents, that you want to maintain the budgetary balance for 2018. Today, to do so, you would have had to achieve another 1 billion, which you refused, you put it under the carpet. So, when I'm told that I'm serious about the budget, excuse me, but that didn't quite convince me. Moreover, the president of your government's largest party, the N-VA, was embarrassed by the crowds: next time it will be harder, more savings will have to be made. So you can sing Malbrough, I don't think anyone has any illusions anymore. I should have added earlier that it is becoming really tiresome, your habit of selling the same measures for the third time by inventing new estimates each time. One might be tempted to laugh at it or to launch a new game in the halls of parliament, a parliamentary version of the Fair Price. Everyone should try to guess what the government will do to the Cayman tax or fiscal prudence in their next conclave. Winners could, for example, receive a free subscription to the Trends newspaper. One might also try to guess in advance the mass of measures not defined at this stage but whose theoretical performance is already taken into account in the budget, or the mass of measures already decided once or twice but never yet implemented. The sub-question to separate the winners from the early stages of the competition could be: if the government really agrees on a measure, why doesn't it do it? You take your work lightly and show incompetence or even injustice, which fills us with bitterness and anger. You have dared to focus most of the effort on the sick and disabled, the unemployed, civil servants and public services. This is cowardice because you do not blame fraudsters and big assets, preferring to parade and weaken the most fragile citizens. It's really not beautiful! Finally, the Budget Minister justified labour reforms in a French-speaking media by saying, with a smile on her lips, that this would allow parents to pick up their children at school on Wednesday afternoon! I couldn't hear that news because it was incredible! Madam, this system already exists and do you know that Belgium is the country with the greatest flexibility in this respect? But in order to implement it, a social agreement is needed. In this case, you change the position of the workers vis-à-vis their boss. From now on, they will have to work according to the schedule that will please the chef or, more precisely and because you had to frame things, they will be able to try to negotiate but it is a battle lost in advance – like the hen trying to negotiate the lunch menu against the wolf who broke into the henhouse! What I say about the schedule is for overtime or night work! And this is in addition to the reforms on part-time work, on the Plus Minus Conto, on the temporary contract of indefinite duration; I am passing and the best. The CD&V, which presented itself as the government's drive to the centre, did abandon workers and social dialogue. Social regression is truly appalling. I say it and I repeat: this country did not deserve a government of such social violence. Prime Minister, in a great flight, you say that you are taking difficult measures but that you will be able to look in 20 years, eyes in the eyes, young people telling them that, thanks to this, their future has been preserved. I find this shameful because you have not dared today to take the tax measures that allow them to have a future, particularly on large assets, the one on tax evasion. Look at all the social networks where all the young people play pianos and give their opinion, what they want is tax justice and that, you didn't dare! This is a right-wing government and believe that it will be explained to them!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u47	Mr President, Prime Minister, as usual, I am very disappointed in your reply. In fact, I can summarize your budgetary control and your reply just now in three points. It is the recipes of the N-VA that are almost blindly followed by the MR and CD&V. Firstly, get the money from the sick, the pensioners and the ordinary people. Secondly, pump a lot of air into the budget on the revenue side and shut up about it. I refer to your statement, Mr De Roover. You didn't say a word about it. Finally, social consultation is organised afterwards, and the MR and CD&V have to make and implement the difficult decisions. That is what this budgetary control is doing, and that is what this government has been doing all along, on instructions from the N-VA.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u48	Mr President, Prime Minister, I will be very brief. I might start with the good news. You have rightly looked ahead to the coming months. There are a lot of yards open. We differ on a lot of things, but I hope we will find each other in the near future, including the threat of terrorism and security. I certainly wanted to make this clear. Mr Prime Minister, otherwise there is a feeling of disappointment. You must be careful that your answers are not as predictable as the applause in Parliament during your speeches. You repeat that good news show again today, and there are a lot of lights on red, and a lot of things can and must be done better in this country. I note, Prime Minister, that, despite various questions, you do not address a number of budgetary questions in any way, on the air in the budget. So, Mr Van Rompuy, I look forward to the House of Representatives' Committee on Finance in which we will discuss the Court of Auditors' report, because there is a great deal of work to be done here. Finally, there are three fellow Members whom I would like to say something to. Mr Peeters, you have made a plan for flexibility. You know my opinion on this: that is not our society. Now please also make a plan for workable work. I have noticed that some of my fellow Members are getting nervous because we are giving a voice here to people who are struggling in the labour market today. Don't worry, we're gonna keep giving that voice. You can yell, yell, yell, yell all you want. We will continue to put these matters on the agenda here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u49	(...).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u50	Mr De Roover, there are a little less of us and our group is a little more polite than yours, which is why the applause sounds a little more hesitant. Mr De Roover, I will conclude with a message to you. We are looking at this budgetary control with Panama glasses. We did read those Panama papers. We do not think that EUR 65 million is enough. We are outraged by this tax evasion and by this tax fraud. That is why we said this week, together with you, that there should be a parliamentary committee of inquiry on these Panama papers. That's what we want to get stuck in. I note that the longer we talk about this, the less the N-VA talks about it and is quietly withdrawing. Mr De Roover, I would like to say one more thing: be as assertive to this committee of inquiry as you are to social degradation. That committee of inquiry needs to be set up. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this budgetary control has taken place under very difficult circumstances. Several fellow Members have pointed this out. These conditions went beyond budgetary problems and have also deeply affected our society. The result of this budgetary control is undoubtedly remarkable. I would like to add, however, that this is clear to everyone that the job is not finished. Budgetary control has opened a number of yards which will not produce any money in the short term. You pointed that out. Today, however, they are taking steps that should have been taken much earlier, including in the area of pensions and other structural reforms. On behalf of our group, I would also like to draw attention to the promise made and the agreement made on company law. In the coming months, under the leadership of Minister Van Overtveldt, room will be made for the necessary exercise to ensure that we will be able to attract international companies in a competitive way. At the same time, this exercise will be the second part that has become apparent over the past few weeks, within a certain framework, Mr Van Overtveldt will, fortunately, play a leading role here too, ensuring that taxation is correct and fair. After all, I can only repeat what all Members agree on, namely that the Panama Papers have also opened our eyes to the extent that is still necessary. So there's still work to be done. Budgetary control is a very good intermediate step. However, we will soon be faced with a new budgetary control system. So, Prime Minister, straighten your shoulders and continue on the path that has been taken. Mr Calvo, I would be more sympathetic if you were also intellectually honest. Your enthusiasm is certainly stimulating. Perhaps someday that will benefit you in other professional circumstances. However, you have just referred to statements made by myself and by our group earlier this week. It would be very nice, should you make those speeches in the media as well, after all, they were very correctly displayed in a correct way................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ In that case, perhaps we could get to a point where we can talk seriously. However, Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying that a debate...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u52	(...).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u53	Mr Calvo, newspapers don't disappear. They may be called newspapers, but they can be consulted again. I will give you a copy of De Standaard on Tuesday, if it has disappeared from your archive, so that you can read in a very quiet way what is written in it. Then you can read and reread every word and let it penetrate slowly, at the appropriate pace you prefer. I would like to conclude by saying that this short debate, as we have had here, has been a significant debate for me. We have seen on the one hand what measures, what taboo-breaking measures we have restarted here. On the other hand, we have seen the defence of the left, the defence of those who advocate the status quo, the defence of those who want to sell every courageous taboo-breaking step as threatening for everything. My dear friends, the remedies on the left, as they have been put forward here this afternoon, have strengthened me in the belief that this government is taking the right measures. I thank the left for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u54	Mr President, Prime Minister, you were right to point out all the work that remains to be done. Many yards have been opened up by this budgetary control, recruiting social dialogue to enforce the right to education, recruiting social dialogue to have fair use of overtime, recruiting social dialogue to have transitional measures and harmonisation on pensions, as well as recruiting social consultation in the National Pensions Commission to have a comprehensive pension reform, so that we do not do so in stages, so that people know where they stand. Mr Prime Minister, at the end of my speech I made a little bridge to the 2017 budget and compared it to mountain stages. I think that's where the next super-large yard is for your government. And I would like to respond to Mr De Roover's speech. There is a yard in the area of taxation, a yard in the area of combating aggressive tax avoidance, a yard in the area of increasing our ambitions to combat fraud. In the 2017 budget, our group expects important steps there, important accelerations higher, to keep that budget on course.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u55	Prime Minister, thank you for your different answers. Did you reassure me of the seriousness? What are you saying here in the gallery? "But of course, we have fully respected the opinions of the Monitoring Committee." We also heard that you worked line by line. But obviously you have not read all the lines of the Monitoring Committee's opinions. I will not read you the line on the Cayman tax. I will not read you the line of the Monitoring Committee on the Eurodesign of administrations and on others, in particular the Carat tax. You do not reassure us of the seriousness of your decisions regarding the financing of the tax shift. Yes, you have taken measures to deter the financing of the tax shift! Ah yes, clearly, they are applied, and especially on taxes, including amounts! But in terms of reducing the cost of work, whether it is for 2016 or later – and it is not the CD&V chairman of the Finance Committee that will contradict me – this tax shift, which was not funded, is still not. You add that your review is serious and that, in addition, the 2017 budget is particularly well prepared. It's so good that everything will be fine for the 2017 budget!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u56	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u57	Prime Minister, you said it almost like that! Maybe we could listen to the verbatim again. On the other hand, I listened to the president of the N-VA. You don't seem to have convinced him in your majority. Indeed, a few days ago, he declared, in a particularly distressed tone, that this 2017 budget required an additional effort of around 3 billion euros, and that it would be even more complicated. Prime Minister, with regard to terrorism, I have taken note of your remarks. All I'm asking is to see! Perhaps the same budget table is not available? Personally, I read the picture that was sent. It is possible that you have made a request at European level for a part that would be one shot. We will be particularly vigilant in this regard. Indeed, these means are indispensable for both the police and the judiciary as well as the intelligence, if the fight against terrorism is to be strengthened together, not only for 2016, but also for the following years. Let me turn to the question of fairness with regard to the tax component. I hope that we will have an agreement in the Conference of Presidents next week on the establishment of a committee on Panama, major tax evasion, tax havens and financial crime in general. Beyond the transparency that we will have to demonstrate in this case, we will have to work to tighten the locks that now allow some to escape tax while honest workers are subject to it. It is time to strengthen mechanisms to combat serious financial crime! As far as employment is concerned, I have heard about small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). It was vaguely referred to in the budget adjustment, but I can only insist, once again, that if we are to support SMEs, we must finally dare to put in place a reduction in ISOC. Finally dare the reduction of corporate tax by recycling notional interest! The system will only be fairer and it will clearly support our SMEs, which are indeed the backbone of our country in economic matters. I conclude by addressing the message to you, Prime Minister and Minister for Employment, because, in terms of modernising working time, I am convinced that we can put in place interesting things. To do this, we must not only go in the direction of the bosses by colliding with the unions – you have in fact decided to bypass social consultation by taking a decision behind them at the level of the Council of Ministers – but also to put on the table all the measures under negotiation to make progress on this issue with the social partners, without postposing measures to balance life and work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u58	Mr Clarinval has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u59	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u60	Mr Clarinval asked for the floor 30 seconds ago. But if you demand compliance with the original order, I'll do it next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u61	Mr. President, I'll be very short. I want to reassure Mr. Nollet, I won't be bothering him for too long. It was important for the Prime Minister to be able to express himself and cut the wings to a whole series of ducks...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u62	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u63	I wasn't talking about you, Mrs. Onkelinx, referring to ducks. I just wanted to say that the wings had to be cut off from the ducks spread in the press. If a whole series of questions arise about employment reforms, it is obviously because there will be room for negotiation between the social partners. If we'd arrived with a string of texts, you'd have blamed us for a lack of negotiation. Here, there's room for manoeuvre, and that's what matters. I have heard Minister Magnette recently welcome the reduction in the number of unemployed people in Wallonia. This is mainly due to measures taken at the federal level to reduce the burden on work. What is being done at the federal level has good repercussions at the Walloon level. The Minister-President should be complete when he or she specifies things.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the agenda, after discussing it with Mr Nollet, the following was agreed. First, we distributed the documents transmitted by Mr. Nollet from Mrs. Lalieux. Secondly, I propose to continue the agenda as planned. We will begin the oral questions in a few moments. Depending on the answers to the oral questions, a Conference of Presidents may be convened, however, after the end of the plenary session and also after, at least if the Chamber adopts the proposal, the installation of the Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u65	I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to respect the Rules of Procedure. That means two minutes per question, two minutes before the answer, in cumulation, of course, and one minute before the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u66	Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in April 2015, the European Commission published a confidential document, which we have had copies of. It established the state of airport security in Belgium. Nine times in this report it appears that Belgium is not complacent, not in conformity. Only three times, it appears that according to the 2008 European Airport Security Regulation, it is compliant. It's a first source. Second source: in December 2014, a very complete note, in seven points, was sent by the President of the Mobility SPF, Mr Ledoux, to a member of Mrs Galant's cabinet. Point 7 is extremely enlightening. It is entitled "Air safety in danger". I quote the document: "There are serious breaches in Belgium concerning aviation security. The aim is to find qualified staff, i.e. to hire consultants. Given the budgetary limitation we face, we will need the firm's support in order to obtain these budgetary means." Finally, a final document, a PV, perhaps not approved, but a PV nonetheless, which proves that on the steering committee it was recalled that the Mobility FPS has requested additional means to ensure security at airports. In concrete terms: to ensure that there are no jihadists on the tarmac of Brussels, Liège or Antwerp. My question is simple, Prime Minister and Mrs Galant. What has this government done, in the light of all this information, to finally give the administration the means to verify that Belgium is in compliance with security at our airports?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u67	Prime Minister, this time the cup is full! Mrs Galant's resignation is inevitable to us. On October 29, 2015, you told us in the Clifford Chance file that the minister had acted in good faith but had acted recklessly. In the RER case, it was not the good faith of the minister that saved her, but the fault of other governments. This time, your minister's incompetence exposed passengers and airport staff to major security risks. Indeed, as early as 2014, the President of the SPF Mobility Mr Ledoux alerted the Minister to the shortcomings of the Brussels-National airport in order to adequately meet security needs. Two confidential reports referred to by Mr Hellings confirm that Belgium is found to be non-compliant with regard to security at these airports with serious deficiencies. The finding is clear and without appeal. For the first time, DGTA, responsible for security at the Brussels-National airport, does not have the necessary tools to carry out its monitoring and control tasks properly. Mrs. Galant knew about it. She didn't do anything. Worse! She has repeatedly refused to respond to her administration's requests to improve security after the Thalys attack in August and the attacks in Paris. Part of the €400 million secure budget released by the federal government after the Paris attacks to combat terrorist acts should have been used to improve the security of our airports. However, your minister preferred to use them to bail out the funds of Belgocontrol, which, however, does not have any safety powers. Such a level of irresponsibility is unacceptable and we understand the resignation of President Ledoux. I come to my questions, Mr. President. Prime Minister, why not a euro of the 400 million promised for security has been allocated to secure the airport, when a budget to improve security was foreseen? Why, as you confirm in the March 2 mobility committee, did the minister not begin to meet with the unions on the issue of security at our national airport until September 2015, one year after she took office? What concrete measures do you intend to take to follow the recommendations of the European Commission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u68	Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on 3 March I asked Mrs Galant in the Committee on Infrastructure about the safety of Brussels-National airport. I asked Ms. Galant to respond to the alerts of the airport security inspectors' unions. They have been denouncing security flaws at Brussels airport for very long months. At the beginning of March, Mrs Galant told me that the security flaws reported by these inspectors "were not accurate". Yesterday, I asked Mrs. Galant again about airport security. She said to me: "The regular audits of the European Commission all indicate that safety standards are fully respected." On the one hand, Mrs Galant tells us that everything is fine; on the other hand, at the same time, the RTBF site publishes a very critical report by the European Commission on the safety of our airports. Prime Minister, I don't understand. It's totally incomprehensible. How is it that Mrs Galant is not aware of the content of the European Commission's reports on the safety of our airports? How does she not know about this? When we see the calls made by the workers and their administration since the end of 2014, and by the European Commission – the reports exist – and after the Thalys attack and the attacks in Paris, how can we explain that, if that is true, Mrs Galant does not accept her administration's requests to secure the airport, particularly in connection with your 400 million? Prime Minister, since the attacks in Paris, since the Thalys, has Mrs Galant made clear requests to you to secure the airport and the surroundings of the airport, including all these holes in the fences? Prime Minister, there have been the mistakes in the budget of the SNCB. There were the errors in the RER file. There were the mistakes in Clifford's illegal procurement. There was this open conflict between her administration and Ms. Galant, and confidential documents landed on media sites. There are now errors in airport security. These repeated mistakes demonstrate, Prime Minister, a lack of professionalism and, at the very least, a great weakness in the conduct of public affairs when it comes to the safety of our fellow citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u69	Prime Minister, Minister Galant was not notified once of the problems at the airport! She hasn't been warned twice! She was repeatedly warned of security issues at the airport, including a question I had addressed to her on 20 January on control deficiencies at the airport. Minister, the trade unionists of the Mobility SPF have also sent you this letter, in which they identify many problems. They explain to me in particular that at the airport, in the scanning of luggage, the statutory distance of 15 cm is not respected, because we have to work fast, always faster, because the private company wants to allow travellers to move faster to the stalls, the duty free to buy, because it brings back to the airport. We can give you dozens of such examples. That is what you received in this letter. You've been warned by the administration, by the chairman of the steering committee. You have been warned by Europe and today you tell us that you do not know, whereas documents and meeting reports prove exactly the opposite! On the other hand, there is a breach of trust, not with the chairman of the steering committee, but with a large part of the staff of the SPF and its union representatives, as there is a breach of trust in the leader of the railway companies. Prime Minister, in view of the Minister's repeated mistakes, once again demonstrated in this case, given her propensity to lie, which I have already said she had introduced in a way of governance, once again demonstrated here, given the crises of trust, especially with her administration, do you believe that Minister Galant still has a place in the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u70	Prime Minister, our country was hit by very heavy attacks on 22 March. How did that happen? Could we have avoided it? Those questions were asked by everyone. Over the past few weeks, Prime Minister, so much information has come out that there are only more questions. As far as airport safety is concerned, several signals have been sent to the Minister responsible, Mrs Galant. The European Commission sent a very destructive signal about the security structure of airports. The top officials of the administration repeatedly asked the minister to invest in security. The trade unions sent a letter to the minister in February last year, following the foiled attacks in Verviers. I quote from this: "The airport inspectors are not convinced that the safety, safety and safety of the workers are the top priority. On the political side, it has remained deafeningly silent over the last few months. The airport inspectors are tired of being unclear. That letter was sent to Minister Galant last year. Prime Minister, I have only one question, about a minister who received different signals and was notified several times, who did nothing with them and simply put those questions aside, and who, at the time this government releases an additional budget of 400 million in the fight against terror, did not apply to increase security. Do you think that the people still have faith in a minister who has repeatedly ignored the signals about airport security?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u71	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in April 2015 your government receives an extremely worrying report from the European Commission. Did you personally receive it or was it your minister? You will receive an extremely worrying report in April 2015 regarding airport security. It is a very difficult report in many respects on controls, on security inspection at the airport. You had already had an alert in December 2014 from the administration on the urgent measures to be taken in relation to airport security. I remind you of the context. The threat varies between 2 and 3 at the OCAM scale. There have already been attacks at the Jewish Museum in Brussels. There have already been attempts to attack, fortunately foiled, in Verviers. There have already been attacks in Paris on Charlie Hebdo and the Hyper Hide store. You allocate €200 million in 2015 to the fight against terrorism but nothing at the airport. Nothing! Not a euro at the airport! And then the attacks in Paris happen again, you take new measures. You are again allocating 400 million euros. Again, you do not attribute anything to airport security. Worse still, your minister proposes to divert, because I call it a "diversion", 25 million euros that should be dedicated to terrorism to allocate them to Belgocontrol, which has nothing to do with the fight against terrorism – nothing to do with it! – and of which we know today the irresponsible and incivious behavior of these last days. Prime Minister, have you read this report from the European Commission? Do you share my concern about the findings that are listed and that are distressing with regard to security control at Zaventem airport? Will you take this report of the European Commission seriously? Are you going to take seriously another report from the European Commission, which also talks about the state of security at Zaventem airport, and which has not been known in our Parliament when other parliaments have been seized of it. This is an extremely recent report dated December 2015 on the control of European airports. I quote: "The main difficulty encountered by Belgium in border management is the ability to manage the situation at its air borders. The shortcomings identified relate to the lack of resources and the incorrect execution of border controls. Serious shortcomings have been noted". Mr. President, this is important. It is also a report that we have not been aware of in due course. Prime Minister, I would like to know if you have confidence in your minister and if you are going to take these two reports of the European Commission seriously?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to point out from the outset that, like each of the speakers and everyone in this House, we all take the safety and security situation at airports very seriously. This issue is obviously important after the tragedy that has struck our country, and after other attacks in Europe and the world. I repeat: there will be one before and one after 22 March, as there has been one before and one after 11 September in the United States. Secondly, I was informed yesterday by the press of the revelation of the two reports of the European Commission. One is dated July 26, 2011 and the other is dated April 28, 2015. I asked for information about them. I am happy to share with you the information that I have. For the 2011 report, despite the requests made, it was not possible to receive it or to be informed of its follow-up, which was then sent to the European Commission. For the 2015 report, in the same way, the information given to me is that it was not sent to the minister's office in charge of this matter. According to the information provided to me, the European Commission sends this report to two DGTA officials who have a restricted EU clearance. It appears that this report has not been communicated to the government, which has become aware of it by the press, therefore, like all parliamentarians. These reports relate, as I understand them at this stage, to safety issues, and perhaps to security issues. Clearly, it is essential to clarify this situation. Thirdly, DGTA has been asked in the last few hours to communicate this information and to report on the follow-up it has carried out, being the administration which receives, via two officials, the report in question. It was reported to the minister's office that follow-up would have been carried out. The national quality control program has been adopted. The national aviation security program has been approved by the firm and is currently being translated. There is a schedule of audits carried out in 2015 as well as those planned in 2016. Fourthly, the safety problems of the airport and the airlines have been changed in accordance, I am told, with the requirements of European legislation. Fifthly, the Royal Decree on the Inspectors' Terms of Reference was signed and forwarded to the Regions for their opinion. These are the five points communicated to me by the firm, which receives this information from DGTA. I have asked that everything be done within the hours that come to clarify as far as possible the manner in which these indications have been communicated, the follow-ups that have been carried out by the administration and also by the firm in charge. It goes without saying that no one should escape the whole of clarity on such a crucial and important subject as this one. As regards the security provision (EUR 200 million and EUR 400 million), the security of airports and stations has been taken into account in the allocation. Two decisions were taken. Firstly, the grant in principle of EUR 17.8 million for equipment at railway stations (ports, scanners), for which the ministers responsible must prepare implementation files to be submitted to the government. Secondly, with regard to airport security, we have focused on the mobilization of additional police resources, as it is planned to hire an additional 35 full-time equivalents. This decision was taken before the attacks and is aimed at Brussels and Charleroi airports. In conclusion, I want all the clarity to be made. I hope that the government, each of the ministers, and I first, will live up to the challenges. The tragedy that struck us must lead us not to be afraid of the truth. It must lead us to look, in the weeks, the months, the years that preceded the attentas, at the points that need to be learned for the future. We have stated that the parliamentary committee of inquiry which was decided by this House would have the full capacity to have the support of the government, which will cooperate in all its dimensions so that the light is brought to light. I hope that we can, in serenity, in determination, fully assume our responsibilities. I will have another reaction to the documents that have been transmitted to Parliament. I understand that one of the minutes that dates back a few days would have been contested. E-mail exchanges seem to show that. I have no consequences, that is a fact. And I note that there is a briefing note a few weeks or months after the government's establishment that addresses many topics, including security and safety at the airport. Parliament must be able to verify precisely what has been done on both sides. Were there any additional notes provided by the administration or upon departure from the firm? I have every confidence in the work of this House to make this clear and learn lessons. I affirm the government's determination that this can be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u73	Prime Minister, this answer is very unsatisfactory. It does not matter that the confidential document was not sent to the Minister and perhaps only to the administration. The latter, on several occasions, warned the minister. In the note to which you refer, point 6 refers to security, but point 4 refers to the money allocated to state aid. I quote: "The administration does not have the means, internally, to carry out a serious aviation security policy. We go into Zaventem like a mill. Well-known jihadists walk around with airport access badges. State aid - the aid Mrs Galant wanted to give to airlines - will not be used to remedy this problem, but only to please the shareholders of these companies." Mrs. Galant received it; she knew it! While this Parliament and the citizens have the right to truth and transparency, you have used the conditional several times. Now that the air traffic controllers at Belgocontrol have resumed their work, Mrs. Galant, fly away, leave!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u74	Prime Minister, we can't go on like this! Mrs. Galant has to go! Never two without three. We're on the third run. Now, Prime Minister, you have to make your decision. It's no longer manageable! Especially when one sees that a service manager like Mr. Ledoux resigns because it is no longer conceivable to work with Ms. Galant. It's the world upside down! Allowing Ms. Galant to work in this department or generally as a minister is not the right solution. Mrs Galant, you have lied to the citizens on several occasions, and that is unacceptable. We can no longer tolerate you staying here as a minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u75	Mr President, Prime Minister, it seems to me that you have chosen to be careful. Indeed, today you have not covered your minister at all, as you have already done for other mistakes. You told us – and we take the leap – that all this had to be analysed point-by-point in the commission of inquiry into terrorist acts. It'll be done. We can, if necessary, table an amendment to add airport security to our missions. That's indispensable. There is a lack of knowledge of the European Commission's report and if these reports have not been transmitted by senior officials, this is a very serious mistake. If what the minister is making is correct, an immediate investigation must be requested within that authority. I also think that it was not just the report of the European Commission. Ms Galant was warned by her workers, by her inspectors, by DGTA. I think there has been lightness in the consideration of all these appeals by his workers and his administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u76	Prime Minister, have I heard you correctly? It is therefore through the press that you and Minister Galant take note of the reports of the European Commission. This shows the state of the minister's relationship with her administration! It has been known for some time that what characterizes Minister Galant is his incompetence, his arrogance, his art of lying. And she shares with the government as a whole a degree of contempt for the general interest, as the chairman of the FPS Mobility Steering Committee may have said. And when I read in the European Commission's report the words "non-compliant" and "serious deficiencies", I wonder in fact whether the latter refers to the airports or to the management of Mrs Galant. I was going to ask you, Prime Minister, to give her something I have here for her, but since she's here, I'm going to give it to her directly. This is a train ticket, a one-way ticket for Jurbise, in the second class. This will allow you to take the train, for once! (Mr. Van Hees gives Mrs Galant a train ticket)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u77	Mr President, Prime Minister, you are President of our National Security Council and you have come to this House to say that you were only informed by the press yesterday by the European Commission that there is a problem with airport security. You are ignoring all the other signals, both from the trade unions and from the administration, and you have come here to say that we know only yesterday that there is a problem with the airport and that we will now look at what we can do about it. Prime Minister, security is not yesterday's problem. It's a responsibility of today and tomorrow. I hope that this government will take the safety of our citizens much more seriously.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u78	Prime Minister, you have chosen to take over the administration. You have answered us only by means of the press. It is totally insane and hallucinating, when you are Minister of Mobility and you are in charge of airport security, to pretend not to be informed and not to be proactive until the administration asks for anything. The political impetus comes from the government. Political responsibility lies with him! You're saying two reports didn't happen to you. In any case, one of them was addressed to you: this is the one I quoted. Indeed, it was intended for the European Council, and therefore for the members of the Belgian government. It is also overwhelming in terms of airport security. The other goes back to February and sends thirty-one recommendations to Belgium in terms of border control – air, in particular. And neither has this one been broadcasted or shared with Parliament! Yet we find him elsewhere. I was able to consult it on the National Assembly website. As a Belgian parliamentarian, I would like to be able to deal with these issues in terms of border control and airport security. I think that's the minimum!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u79	Prime Minister, the aviation sector in our country is going through a lot. On 22 March last, the airport was severely hit by a terrorist attack. The day before yesterday, the air traffic controllers left work after a call from the guild. We were all surprised and surprised, because keeping aircraft on the ground has a huge economic and social impact. Thousands of businessmen and tourists and dozens of airlines were held hostage by a small group. This is irresponsible and particularly painful for the image of our country abroad. When Zaventem airport licks its wounds and everyone breaks down to get the airport operational 100%, action is being taken by the air traffic controllers. We need to ask questions about that. As far as we are concerned, Prime Minister, this cannot be repeated. The specific trigger for the action is the air traffic controllers' pension scheme. The text approved by the Joint Committee will be discussed in 58 years by 2030. Keeping workers working longer is the government's ambition. Longer work is also needed in order to pay pensions and maintain our social welfare. Everyone, all groups and sectors, must contribute to this. Another issue, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, is the guarantee of airport services. The coalition agreement states that Belgocontrol, in consultation with the social partners, must have a guaranteed service, even in the event of a strike, without restricting the right to strike. Prime Minister, what will you do to avoid such situations in the future? What is the economic damage to our country? What's the image damage to our country? You made a call yesterday to send doctors there for the workers' unwillingness. What have the control doctors established? Yesterday there was also consultation with the trade unions and the management of the minister's cabinet. What was the result of that? Finally, and this is not insignificant, will the minimum or guaranteed service be provided? What's the status? What timetable will you and the government follow?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u80	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on Tuesday and Wednesday, Belgian air traffic has again been disrupted because of a wild and irresponsible strike launched by part of Belgocontrol's air traffic controllers. This action has paralysed the Belgian sky and taken hostage workers, tourists, those who spin the economy and defend a winning image of Belgium. This action was particularly unacceptable in a context where Belgium was trying to recover after the terrible attacks in Brussels. Defending his working conditions is of course legitimate. But was it appropriate to take this kind of action in the situation that our country is going through today and after all the efforts made by the air transport actors to maintain Belgium's international air connection capacity. What also to say about the reactions of the various airports and airlines who have insurgently opposed this wild strike. Closing the airspace shows a total lack of decency and respect for the airport, its workers and its users. Prime Minister, I have two questions. Can you give us more information on the impact of irresponsible economic and international actions? Can you also tell us what has been done by the government to alleviate this situation, which has created serious difficulties for our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u81	Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Belgocontrol has had one emotion in recent days: anger. Anger because our airport gets a new blow in the face, anger at people who were stuck at the airport, anger because a small group can make sure that such chaos is organized. This is reprehensible. You should know that our airport is an economic engine for our country. We must cherish this. This means that we have to accept our responsibility. Taking responsibility means finally putting the guaranteed service on the table and ensuring that it can be enforced. I have heard this request very often recently, from citizens and businesses, and in recent days also from air traffic controllers with a heart for the airport, who did work. I have also heard it from Belgocontrol himself, which very much wants politics to handle and regulate this. Prime Minister, I think we should pick up the glove. It is no longer a matter of whether and how, but of when and who will do it. My question to you is therefore very simple. Will your government bring texts to Parliament in the near future, or will you leave the initiative to the Members of Parliament, who are very keen to take it into their hands?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u82	Mr President, Prime Minister, on 27 May 2015 there was a power failure at Belgocontrol. On March 22, 2016, a date that will be engraved in our memory forever, the terrible attacks took place. On 12 April 2016, air traffic controllers paralyzed the airspace. It was the third battle for the airport in one year and it was one below the belt. A selection of headlines: evil, irresponsible, shameless. Can anyone imagine that two weeks after 9/11, the New York Fire Department would strike? Is Zaventem still up for this? Colleagues, those headlines are right. Yes, social negotiations sometimes lead to unrest and strikes. We are not very warm for this means of action, but it is legitimate. But civil servants with a crucial function and a fine statute, who abuse their power at the most unfortunate moment, that is du jamais vu, that is unacceptable. If they abuse our precious health insurance before that, it doesn't just taste harsh, that's cowardly. Prime Minister, it has already been discussed here today, and I would like to stress that continuous service at the airport is essential for our economy, for tourism, for airlines and for passengers. Your government recognizes this, because you wrote in the coalition agreement: "The government will instruct Belgocontrol to draw up, after consultation with the social partners, a proposal which nevertheless provides for a guaranteed service in the event of a strike. I have one question for you, Minister. When do you enter the minimum service at Belgocontrol?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u83	I share the view that the attacks in Brussels not only represented a human tragedy but also caused a great deal of economic damage. During the budgetary discussions, we discussed the government's commitments to release support for economic sectors that were in difficulty following these attacks. That is why we were particularly angry because a small minority decided to shut down the airport at a time when we had made a lot of efforts to reopen the airport as soon as possible. We were all struck by this sudden, savage and brutal action that started under the impulse of a few. I share the harsh words that have already been expressed by several speakers: this act, this action, this taking hostage of the country and its economic and therefore social image, this endangerment of employment directly linked to airport activity is unacceptable and irresponsible. In close consultation with my cabinet, of course, we immediately decided to act with the Minister for Mobility and the Minister for Employment to restart Belgocontrol's activity. Throughout the last few hours, hour after hour, we have taken on the task of ensuring that the personnel needed to maintain the continuity of Belgocontrol are available. At this very moment, the airport is functioning again normally but we are particularly vigilant. We will have to keep an eye on this in the coming hours and days. Secondly, I would like to stress the fact that it is certain that the continuity of a number of public services, such as Belgocontrol, which have an essential function for safeguarding our image and for economic development, must attract the attention of the government, the parliament and, I hope, the social partners. I am therefore pleased that yesterday, in consultation with the social partners and while two ministers were representing the government, we managed to launch this solemn call to resume work. But that is not enough! What has happened and is happening in Belgocontrol must set in motion the mechanisms to enable the government, as soon as possible and in consultation with the social partners, to guarantee continuity again and to ensure that such events never happen again. It is our commitment and determination!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u84	Thank you, Prime Minister, for the answer. The airport is the economic engine of Brussels and of our country. There's a lot of jobs involved. Both passengers and airlines and all companies must always be able to count on that airport, 24 hours a day, 7 days a day. Mr. Prime Minister, it's time to deliver. We've been going on for a year and a half. As far as the yards for the airport are concerned, they are 2 points. Firstly, the guaranteed service that needs to be provided. As far as we're concerned, this was the very last wild strike at the airport. Secondly, the flight law must also be put in place to give the airport and the companies stability. The contributions to be made by companies, airlines and regional airports must also be adjusted. Prime Minister, Minister, we call on you to do something about this. It's 5:12. If one misses one's plane, one knows what time it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u85	Prime Minister, I am pleased with the comments you made and the return to responsibility for each other. We must do everything possible in the future to ensure that this does not happen again, in the interests of travellers, the airport, its workers and its users. It is about the image of Belgium and our credibility. I thank you, in any case, for your action and that of your Government. You can count on us to do this in the coming weeks, in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u86	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for your reply. I have heard in recent days and also here that the noses are in the same direction: putting, approving and enforcing guaranteed services on the table as quickly as possible. We all have to pull the luggage cart in order to ensure that the guaranteed service is provided. We count on you and you can count on our support.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u87	Mr President, Prime Minister, first of all I would like to thank those who have started working in the tower. I think they've shown their responsibility. Our group is once again putting on the table Guido De Padt's proposal in the Infrastructure Committee to ensure that the guaranteed services are provided in all public enterprises. Finally, Prime Minister, let go of the Reagan in you for once and get rid of the disgusting blackmail of a small minority.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u88	Mr President, Minister, last week Bilal El Makhoukhi was arrested in Brussels. He was arrested for his involvement in the attacks in both Paris and Brussels. One won't believe it, especially after the attacks a few weeks ago, but the man was at home with an anklet. Hallucinant, if only because of the fact that such an anklet limits you of course in your freedom of movement, but not in the freedom to plan, organize, call and arrange what one wants. As a result of these painful circumstances, you have stated that for risk profiles only ankle tyres will be allowed if the parties concerned wish to deradicalise and take courses in this area. I'd like to, but I think this is absolutely insufficient. Such an anklet is a form of false security that tolerates all freedoms, with the exception of freedom of movement. It therefore seems to me to be very naive to assume that this measure could be sufficient. It's kind of like a lion wants to catch with a mousetrap. I can't do that. You know that very well. My question is whether we have learned nothing from the painful circumstances of recent weeks and years that led to the attacks in Brussels and elsewhere in Europe. Can you give some concrete expression to your proposal? How many people are in this situation? Who is it really about? What exactly do you mean by your proposal? How concrete is your proposal? Or have you in the meantime realised that this proposal is anything but realistic and rather naive?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u89	Mr Dewinter, first of all, a distinction must be made. Persons who received a short sentence could, until recently, serve this short sentence with an ankle bracelet. It's in a letter that my predecessor made up. I changed that circular on 26 November 2015 for people who were given a short sentence for terrorist offences. People like Bilal el-Makhukhi, who have committed a terrorist crime with short sentences, will no longer be able to serve their sentence with an ankle bracelet. Secondly, today Parliament will probably approve the first Terror draft, and soon a second Terror draft will be presented, making it easier to take terrorists into custody than it is now. The conditions for pre-trial detention are reduced to make it easier for terrorists to be taken into custody. Thirdly, what you mean and what you call naive is the consultation I will hold with the Community ministers on 20 April. We will look into whether terrorists who have received a longer sentence and are eligible for provisional release after serving at least one third or two thirds of their sentence, as the case may be, can take up this provisional release with an ankle band, combined with a follow-up to their deradicalisation by the Community. These are three different things. The third is not yet in operation, the second is coming to Parliament shortly, and the first is in operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u90	Minister, I note your clarification. I also note, however, that it is your intention to allow those who have been sentenced to a longer period of time to sit down with an ankle bracelet for the last period if they agree to a deradicalisation course and thus release them to society. I think this, however it turns, is indeed naive. In fact, I find this dangerous, because of the simple fact that I assume that these radical Muslims are not prepared to play according to the rules of our society. They are not, nor will they ever be. We must not reward them, we must not give them a second chance, we must not try to deradicalise them, because they will never succeed. They will use the taqiyya, an Arabic term for deception and lie, which allows them to turn a wheel in front of us for the purpose of the assignment they have. All we can do is put these people behind bars for as long as possible, and for all I care, to ensure that they no longer represent a danger to our society. They belong there, not with an anklet in the freedom of our Flemish society.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u91	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u92	Following the terrorist attacks on Tuesday 22 March 2016, the Chamber of Representatives of the Republic of Malta expressed my condolences. On the occasion of the terrorist attacks on Tuesday, 22 March 2016, I received a message of support and condolences from the House of Representatives of the Republic of Malta.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u93	I have received an amendment from Mr Hans Bonte to the draft law on supplementary measures to combat terrorism, Nos 1727/1 to 4. I have received an amendment from Mr Hans Bonte to the bill on supplementary measures in the fight against terrorism, Nos. 1727/1 to 4. I propose that the draft law be sent back to the Temporary Committee on Combating Terrorism, in order to discuss the amendment and in the meantime suspend the sitting. I propose that you refer the bill to the Temporary Committee on Counter-Terrorism to allow for consideration of this amendment and to suspend the sitting. The draft law will be discussed in plenary today, after discussion of the amendment in committee. Discussion of the bill will continue in plenary, after consideration of the amendment in committee. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u94	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u95	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 117: Sonja Becq, Raf Terwingen, Servais Verherstraeten - 1362: Hans Bonte, Alain Top - 1463: Olivier Maingain, Véronique Caprasse - 1711: Hans Bonte. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to this bill and to these legislative proposals. I propose that you devote one discussion to this bill and to these bills. [[Sentiment]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u96	The rapporteurs are Mrs Van Cauter and Mr Demeyer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u97	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in agreement with our colleague, we refer to the written report. I must inform you that the committee meeting has just taken place. Mr Bonte's amendment was adopted unanimously less one abstention. Abstention was not about the amendment but about the article. The amendment dealt with part of Article 13. The amendment was voted unanimously, but the article was voted unanimously less one vote. As for the whole text, it was voted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u98	You have in fact just made the report on the activities of the committee which met a few moments ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u99	Yes. It seems to me normal, Mr President, that Parliament should be well informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u100	Thank you, Mr. Demeyer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u101	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last November the government announced 18 new measures in addition to the 12 measures of January 2015. A total of 15 measures have already been implemented and the work will continue with the objective of strengthening the capacity and effectiveness of our security and intelligence services. On the proposal of the Prime Minister, a temporary Committee on Terrorism, which has just met, has been set up. It allows us to work more quickly on projects while discussing various avenues and proposals in relation to the theme of the fight against terrorism and radicalism. The bill before us today is a new counter-terrorism package, which incorporates three important measures announced in November 2015, in addition to the measures already adopted by the House. The three measures mentioned above are the 24-hour search for terrorist offences, the extension of specific research methods in order to strengthen the fight against arms trafficking and the creation of a legal basis for the establishment of data banks common to the various services involved in the fight against terrorism, a database that is part of the follow-up to the circular foreign fighters, which was adopted in August 2015. The attacks of 22 March have dramatically reminded us of the urgency of being able to equip our intelligence and security services with tools adapted to the fight against the jihadist threat. Since taking office, this government, the majority, has been making good on the backlog in recent years. Terrorists are informed of our procedural rules in the fight against terrorism and they were well aware that, until then and with the exception of extremely specific cases provided for by law (such as flagrante delicto), it was not possible to search their cache between 9 p.m. and 5 a.m. Of course, this situation had to stop. By passing this bill, we are putting more pressure on terrorists. We could not continue to let them sleep quietly! In addition to terrorist offences, 24-hour searches requested by the services will also be applicable in cases of criminal associations or criminal organizations, where there is serious evidence that firearms or explosives, nuclear, biological, chemical weapons or any other harmful or dangerous substances could be discovered. We know that arms trafficking is another major focus in the fight against terrorism. We had to make it easier for our services to intercept those who, by engaging in arms trafficking, can contribute to providing terrorists with the tools that sow death and terror. That will be done with the second step in the bill. This implies the extension of specific methods of research, including wiretapping, to offences under the Arms Act or to standards relating to arms exports. Here, it is important to stress that all the guarantees inherent in the particular methods of research, namely the decision of the investigating judge, the criteria of necessity, of serious evidence, of finding that the other means of investigation are not sufficient, will apply. Since the first project, this majority has ensured that the necessary balance between security and freedom is respected. It is a duty that we have assigned ourselves and this project, like the others, does not derogate from this fundamental rule. Of course, we must not offer Daesh the sacrifice of our fundamental values on the altar of the terrorist threat; we can no longer afford not to respond to the call of services, actors on the ground who need new tools in the face of a threat that is constantly changing. We must continue to raise our level of security. The third part relates to the creation of a legal basis for establishing common data banks. The exchange of information – as we know – is certainly one of the keys to the effectiveness of the various police and intelligence services in dealing with those who can embody the terrorist threat. For example, today the police do not have access to judicial data. It's a pitfall you had to get out of. To this end, the project will establish databases on individuals or groups, provided that at least two departments, such as the State Security and the police, have such information in their work to prevent and monitor terrorism and extremism, where it could lead to terrorism. The aim of this measure is also to contribute to decision-making by administrative, administrative police or judicial police authorities. The latter measure will also increase the quality of the data processed and update it to the benefit of all actors justifying a right of access to this crucial information. It will also make it possible to act more quickly and properly when signals from different services specify the reality of the threat. The joint management of these data will also contribute to a necessary rationalization effort. This measure will, however, be effective, as we know, only if each actor fully assumes his or her responsibilities. While the judiciary continues to fall within its remit, local authorities can and must use all the tools available to them to assume their role in terms of administrative police, including de-listing, home control and interaction with actors on the ground, in accordance with the existing arrangements provided by the circular foreign fighters. One of the objectives of this third strand is to ensure the transmission and sharing of information. The creation of common data banks will increase the possibilities of completing the information. A series of royal decrees will later define the terms of access, but the government has intended to be broad in its draft. Permanent Commission of the Local Police, CTIF, Crisis Centre, Directorate General Consular Affairs, Office of Foreigners or the Prison Administration should have access to these databases. The same will apply to the mayors, the chiefs of the local police or the courts. It will then be up to all these actors to bring back any relevant information that they would be aware of as front-line actors. Various initiatives have already been taken in this direction and Françoise Schepmans has regularly had the opportunity to share with us in committee the various initiatives that could have been taken at the level of her commune. Let us assume that all local authorities will follow this example. As explained in this way, on the basis of the discussions we have had on the need for this third measure, I do not understand that there is still a lack of confidence in a number of political groups in relation to a measure which is a measure of common sense, a necessary measure. I explained it. Why, at the Socialist Party and at Ecolo, have we chosen the path of abstention, when such a measure is being demanded by the services in a loud and clear manner? I wish you could explain it to us because I can't understand it. There is no longer time to abstain on a number of measures such as this. Let me be helped to understand why there are still abstentions in the face of so much common sense! Let me know because I don't know!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u102	Mr.Ducarme, I imagine you followed the debates in committee, as I did, when we met to discuss this bill. I'll repeat all of our arguments in a moment. On the whole set of principles and the will behind the government's in this bill, we are following you. That is why we voted in favour of the whole text. I remind you of what happened in committee a few weeks ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u103	No! I'll be all right! I'll be all right!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u104	Let me finish. You accuse us of abstaining. That sounds like a charge.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u105	I'm not accusing. I'm saying you're abstaining. Have you abstained or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u106	We abstained on a set of articles, for reasons I will explain, with regard to the practicality of the establishment of databases. I will explain precisely why earlier. But on all the measures that are included in the bill, we are constructive, but we have great reservations about how the dynamic database will be put in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u107	Does the PS have an explanation for the abstentions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u108	You're starting to piss me off! Mr. Demeyer will come and explain himself. In the area of terrorism, we will have the opportunity to compare what has been done. Mr Dewael knows this better than anyone, when I was Minister of Justice, when it comes to terrorism, we have laid the foundation for everything that currently exists: the first anti-terrorism laws, the OCAM, the security clearances, the increase in the means of State security. Then you'll come back with your lessons! For the rest, we have a good debate in committee. We are voting for the whole because we believe in it, and now Mr Ducrame, rather than saying so much better, and that we are all together in the fight against terrorism, is here to make a fair and seek controversy. Mr Ducrame, that doesn't make any sense!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u109	There's no fair will. There is no will to assault you. I never assault anyone. You don't even bother me, Mrs. Onkelinx! I would like to have a number of explanations and I hear that you are giving them in relation to a measure which, in our view, will be necessary for the fluidity that we are going to bring to the exchange of information. It is well known that the exchange of information in this area is an essential element in uncovering the terrorist threat. You will therefore give the House further details on the choice that has been yours on certain aspects of staying a little in reserve. That said without controversy. I very much hope, indeed, Mrs Onkelinx, that we will all be together, gathered around certain measures to be taken. I think it's time to finally get out of old ideological reflexes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u110	(...) airport security.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u111	We can repeat the debate on airport safety, and we will, of course, do so in the committee that brings us together so that we can learn from what needs to be improved to further raise our level of safety. I do not understand the reservations about the anti-terrorist measures announced by this government, in particular the one related to the data banks. I do not understand, when we have organised lengthy hearings and mobilised the Committee on Terrorism for a long time on this aspect, namely the extension of police custody. The services are asking us to extend police custody to 48 hours, even if we had proposed 72 hours listening to a number of other echoes received by the majority. I do not understand that with regard to a tool as important as this, which is demanded by the services, part of the opposition continues to stand in the way, and does not join a compromise to meet a need on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u112	What you blame us for, Mr. Ducrame, is doing our job right. I am sorry: the discussions in committee were indeed constructive, as did the discussions during the hearings. It happens that I've been at all the auditions, from A to Z. You blame us for asking questions. These are elements of practical implementation. With regard to the principle of creating a dynamic database, as I said earlier, we are convinced of the need for the tool. Excuse us for having an opinion on how it is put in place, to draw your attention to specific orders for the establishment of the database. Stop blaming us for doing the job right. You asked us for a hand stretched out majority/opposition at the beginning of this commission, and we said, "Shit!" We do, we deposit texts and we are constructive. You are now pointing your finger at several parties: it is not worthy of the debates that we have had in committee. As far as I am concerned, my text does not include the name of another party once. These are debates that go beyond small political games. It is a shame to have pointed parties. Moreover, for once, and this is not always the case, we vote like you on the principles. I don't understand what you're looking for here. I find this deeply unfortunate and regrettable for the quality of the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u113	You have the right, my colleague, to have your opinion. I don't blame you for your opinion. I wonder if you're not supporting the whole process. Beyond speeches, lessons, I have developed the content of the measure. Just point out to me, in the context of your intervention, as the PS, I imagine, will do, the elements of this important measure that you do not wish to endorse. There is no question of controversy. It is simply a question of everyone assuming their choices. I'm not asking you any more. I'm not teaching you any lessons. I would simply like you to justify those abstentions; as I call on you, because the measure is still pending, to move a little bit, at least to move the lines in relation to a measure just as important as the three that we are going to vote for today: the extension of police custody. If you do not join the majority, I will allow myself, given the demands of the services, to give you some lessons.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u114	Mr Ducarme, if you call that the version without polemics, then I am very curious to see what the polemic version looks like. Mr Vanden Burre has rightly and with great conviction defended the work of various groups in the Committee on Counter-Terrorism. This work is at odds with Mr Ducarme's speech. Mr Ducarme, I am surprised at your assertiveness, especially today. Today we have been able to take note of the total laxity of one of your ministers in the field of security. We have also been able to take note of the fact that an MR minister has systematically ignored signals to improve airport safety. We have seen an MR Prime Minister who has not answered the questions on this subject and who here says to the assembly that he wants clarity. A prime minister who says he wants clarity, that's the world upside down. After all, a prime minister normally provides clarity. So, Mr Ducarme, if you show only 10% of your assertiveness to the opposition and the Socialist Members in front of your own minister, the situation in our country would be different. In that case, we would perhaps have another Minister for Mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u115	Mr Calvo, we can turn the ball back and go back systematically to the problem of airport security. It is clear that this issue will be addressed in the committee of inquiry, as the Prime Minister pointed out. We agree with this approach, as it is essential. In any case, there is no question here of being assertive. Rather, it is a question of simply asking you the basis of the choice you make on behalf of certain reservations about measures that we consider essential. I'm not looking for polemic, but I'm just asking you... [[Brouhahaha]] Look, if you ask to justify some of your positions is a matter of controversy, then the debate becomes impossible. I ask you to explain, at the very least, why you intend to abstain from these measures, which are absolutely in the right direction. I do not understand the reason for your abstentions in this regard. I have no doubt somewhat digested the issue of the extension of police custody. Given the demands of the services, and you indicated that you participated in the hearings, I do not understand that we cannot agree on a minimum extension of police custody.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u116	Mr Ducrame, our fellow citizens are waiting for us to debate the substance of the matter, not for us to give ourselves the ball or for us to give lessons. First of all, we will abstain on some articles. I recall that, for the overall text, we have decided to follow the government's plan, because we agree with its objectives and intentions. Therefore, forbearance does not mean blocking the measure. We have very deep questions and relevant comments that are consistent with the Privacy Commission's report. Since some of our questions relating to a few articles have remained unanswered during the debates in committee, it seems to me healthy, responsible and constructive to abstain on these articles. As far as police custody is concerned, I have the impression that we did not attend the same hearings, Mr. Ducarme. Honestly, your proposal to lengthen at 72 hours, on all the hearings, I had to hear only one or two people say "at the limit, if necessary". All other interviewees, both lawyers, attorneys-general and service staff, were opposed. Not against an extension, but against 72 hours. Ecolo-Groen has tabled a text that goes further since he proposes to go up to 48 hours in the Constitution for all the facts, under the supervision of an investigating judge after 24 hours. Don't accuse us of not wanting to move forward. It's not because we're not moving exactly the way you want us to, we're not doing anything. We are really constructive on this issue. Let's reread the auditions together.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u117	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return to the draft bill before us today. Following a first package of anti-terror measures adopted here in July 2015, there is a second draft law, Terro II, as it is now called. We've had Terro I, now Terro II and I understand there will be more. The committee unanimously approved this draft law, across party boundaries, majority and opposition. I just wanted to stress that because it is very important. After all, we are touching on certain rights and freedoms. It is therefore very important that this is carried in a wide room. That's what happened. We have even just approved an amendment by Mr Bonte from the opposition. I believe that this can underline the constructive conduct of the debates. It shows that we are striving to achieve a certain goal together during this serious period, with the serious facts that have happened to us. So that's important. Colleagues, we live in the rule of law. In a rule of law, there are rules, it's not the Wild West. That means there are procedures, procedural rules, safeguards, right of defence, presumption of innocence, privacy. We all know that. Just as every citizen must abide by these rules, so must our researchers, our security services, our justice and our police. On the other hand, however, criminals and terrorists do not comply at all. They don't take rules into account, they don't take procedures or hours into account. They won't let that stop them. What do they care about the victim's rights? What do they care about the victim's innocence? So there is a very unequal battle on the ground. Our police forces and our Justice Department follow the rules, the opponents do not. Today, however, they face very great challenges. They must guarantee our safety. They're gonna fight those terrorists with the bad guys. If we can help them with some measures and lose some freedom for them, then so be it. Then that's not a problem for us. I have already said that exceptional circumstances require exceptional measures. We are approving these measures today. What's it about? We all know the inviolability of our home. Between 9:00 p.m. and 5:00 p.m., no one is allowed to enter you. You can't just do that anyway. With this design, nocturnal search in Terro's business will be possible. Ladies and gentlemen, that is very important. Why? The criminals don't follow the rules, but they know the rules. We know from previous records that they also rest between 9 p.m. and 5 p.m., set their alarm clock and prepare armed at 04.45 p.m. until the researchers may arrive at 5 p.m. At 04.45 hours, they arm themselves literally and figuratively. With the nocturnal search we offer our services additional possibilities to defuse that too. The extension of the phone tap. We are all committed to our privacy, but in the context of heavy arms trafficking, I think it is only natural that that telephone tap should be expanded. For us, it is not a problem that these freedoms are being touched. In addition, this draft law also provides a legal framework for a dynamic database. That is also essential. The facts have shown that the flow of information and communication can and must be improved. This database will be a very important tool in that it will enable the various services to share important information with each other. Colleagues, these three measures are very important. They offer more scope for our services in order to protect our society. I would remind you that these are not the first measures to be taken. Things have already happened. Much remains to be done, much remains to be done on the shelves and gaps in our system have yet to be closed, but many measures have already been taken after Verviers. People forget that sometimes. I would like to take this opportunity to remind you of that. I am thinking here of the practical issues that have been dealt with, such as the additional staff already available, the Channel Plan of Minister Jambon, the database of jihadists that will be rolled out this month, the more targeted control at our land borders and software packages that will make up for three years of technological backwardness. There is also the legislation Terro I which we adopted in July, the withdrawal of the identity card is easier, relocation abroad is punishable, there are more special possibilities for investigation and more possibilities for withdrawal of nationality, freezing of national funds and I can go on for a while. In the area of justice, too, we have adapted legislation and procedures, and there is even more to be done in the context of criminal proceedings. Those plans are ahead of us. Terro III and IV are in the pipeline. Colegas, this government and our Parliament have therefore taken many anti-terrorist measures since Verviers. Today we are taking another important step. I don't think it's gonna be the last step.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u118	Mr President, Ministers, the current debate is taking place in a difficult and unfortunate context for our democracy. It is not a time for naivety and we must remain vigilant in the protection of public and individual freedoms. In committee, we had a high-quality debate in which all Commissioners spoke in the public interest. Democracy means free debate in committee and in parliament. Democracy is also a majority and an opposition, each with its own responsibilities. Thus, the responsibility of the opposition is to democratically control the work of the majority. These notions are indisputable, and that is why I am struck, Mr Ducrame, by your intervention earlier. I, like many others, have lived through all the debates in committee and I will not respond to what I consider to be a provocation. Nor will I regard your proposal as a cloud of smoke spread in a preventive manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u119	You can use great words, talk about "provocation" or "consideration"...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u120	"Provocation" is not a big word! You'll hear my explanation, Mr. Ducrame, if you let me talk.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u121	If I cannot question a number of reservations that you have about this project and which I do not agree with because I do not understand them, the democratic debate that you are talking about cannot take place. I simply ask the PS to explain to the House its reservations and the reason for its abstentions on a number of points.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u122	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u123	I'm in the correction. If you want to keep an orderly, serene, correct debate, do not spend your time interrupting your political opponents. We must be gathered on these issues. This is the debate, Mr. Frédéric. When we ask for the floor to speak, it is called a parliamentary debate. It's not about offending you, Mr. Demeyer...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u124	It's an offence to intellectual honesty!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u125	It is simply a matter of having explanations in the context of a proper debate. You indicated that you were going to develop your reluctance to certain parts of the project. I'm listening very calmly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u126	Mr President, three topics are therefore on the agenda: the possibility for the police to carry out searches 24 hours a day / 24 and the extension of telephone taps and the establishment of a legal basis for common data banks dedicated to the fight against terrorism. I will be relatively brief on the first two themes. On the one hand, my group supports the amendment extending the possibilities of listening to and recording private communications or telecommunications in the context of the new proposals. On the other hand, even if we consider that the current law already allows the desired night searches, the Socialist Group will support the extension of the search possibilities 24 hours a day. 24 for terrorist offences covered by the Criminal Code and for offences of criminal association or organization, where there are serious indications of the presence of firearms or explosives. On the other hand, the third part, dealing with the creation of dynamic data banks, seems to us to ask some questions. Indeed, stamping is a very sensitive technique in the field of privacy and individual freedoms. We must therefore proceed with caution and ensure at least that two conditions are met, as I have explained at length in committee. On the one hand, the effectiveness of the project and, on the other hand, the existence of clear guidelines on the functioning of the new system and on its future developments. Now, what do we see? In terms of efficiency, first of all, the project involves a very wide range of actors in the collection of data, so wide that the mass of data collected may make certain relevant elements collected illegible to the competent authorities. Without betraying the follow-up work of the P and R Committees, we have already raised the fact that the management of the files in the current form presents difficulties. And we noted that it is well in the government's intentions to improve the situation. However, we wonder if it would not be more relevant and priority to operate effectively the existing tools, rather than adding an additional layer of database. Next, I come to the beacons to be set on the future functioning and development of this dynamic data bank. Four reasons make the system potentially imperfect in our eyes and lead us already to pull the alarm bell. Who will be the operational manager? Who will be the subject of a stamping? Who feeds the data banks? How do we get out of the database? These are the four questions! First, the current and future data bank operational manager is not identified. It seems that, as a first step, it will be the Ocam. There is no way in the project to say whether any databases created in the future will be managed by other operators or not and who they will be. It is essential to us that at least one senior magistrate or police officer be responsible for such sensitive tools, which does not detract from the ability of the government and the ministers in charge to manage operations. But this is one of the reasons why, together with the Council of State, we are questioning the relevance of using the law on the police function as a legal vehicle for the creation of these data banks. This does not mean that we are opposed to its creation. Secondly, who will be the subject of the stamping? Here too, the notions are uncertain. Extremism that can lead to terrorism, we are told, is a whole new formula that leaves scope for broad interpretations. The concept is not defined anywhere. We are pleased that our amendment has been received. And we thank the majority for that, including the CD&V, but not only. This amendment refers to article 139, paragraph 2, of the Criminal Code, although we are not the only ones who have mentioned this possibility. This article explicitly excludes organizations whose real purpose is exclusively political, trade union, philanthropic, philosophical or religious. This is a beacon but a minimum tag and we would have preferred to use a slightly clearer and more precise definition. This is also the case with the definition of the need to know, need to know, of an institution empowered for strategic, tactical or operational purposes. We ask the questions. What is a strategic, tactical or operational purpose? The project is silent about this. Ministers, the concept will need to be clarified. Thirdly, the question of which authorities and institutions will feed the data banks is essential. The government chooses a very broad list. I have indicated the risk of this choice for efficiency but the list is left open and it could be changed, not by a debate in Parliament as we have for the first list, but by means of a simple royal decree. In our view, the amendments should also come to Parliament. Indeed, they will be able to touch professional secrecy. Besides, we don't know what tomorrow will be done. Will the users of this delegation tomorrow be forever animated by intentions as noble as the current ministers? Fourthly, monitoring, in particular in terms of the duration of data retention, is problematic. They will be able to remain, ladies and gentlemen, for up to six decades in the dossiers. Sixty years! It's the same thing, but "six decades" is better said! That said, let's stay serious! Controlling the output possibilities of the file is fundamental. When can we get out? Either, when a registered person is no longer registered. Either, when you decide – and it's happy – to communicate information to other foreign services in the framework of a good European or global police. The bill does not provide a guarantee and condition in this regard. We do not oppose the idea, we simply ask for some guarantees. We believe that this is the role of the opposition and, indeed, of any democrat. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I could have developed, but this has been done in committee and it is in the Minutes. I could have set out at great length the arguments put forward in committee which justified our abstention on the specific points I have just raised. We call on you to keep our interventions in mind because they are democraticly important. I would like to point out that the ministers seemed to us to be attentive and receptive in committee; the proof of this is the amendment adopted earlier with the support of the majority. We made observations and abstentions. However, and there is only this that matters, in view of the general balance of the text and the general interest in the moments we are going through, the Socialist Party approved the overall text in committee. This will be the attitude of the Socialist Group in plenary session.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u127	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Onkelinx has reminded us that our fight against terrorism has been going on for several years, and has been going on for 15 years. I assume it's our fight. It is a painful finding and a terrible, undeniable reality that the plea is far from won. You will agree with me that the fight against terrorism should not only be waged by repression. I heard a colleague in French say that we should not be naive. Justice and intelligence and security services need all possible and necessary means to protect our country, our citizens, our fundamental rights and freedoms. By the way, we have not been idle in the past. As early as 2003, we introduced in our Criminal Code the crime of terrorism as a criminal offence and even criminalised the recruitment and inciting of terrorism. For us, as members of the Committee on Justice, that seemed a little far-fetched, but today reality teaches us that it was indeed not a minute too late to make these offences criminal. Recently, in 2015, entering and leaving the territory for the purpose of committing terrorist offences was also criminalised. That was one of the twelve measures announced by the government following the foiled attacks by Verviers, all of which were fully implemented one by one. So, ladies and gentlemen, I repeat, we have not been idle; we have worked hard. However, we must continue to invest in people and resources, in our security services. There is no point in attacking those who are daily in favour of our freedoms and our security. We need to strengthen their operation. Colleagues, it is in that sense that today three of the measures announced by the government on 19 November 2015 will be adopted by the Chamber. If I can make a reading of the discussions in committee, then I assume that these measures will be adopted almost unanimously. This merely underlines that it is indeed our common struggle, which we must fight against terrorism. I have already mentioned it in committee, and I would like to repeat it: I can only endorse the words of the Prime Minister here in the hemisphere, namely that it is the duty of all democrats to fight fanaticism and terrorism with determination and ruthlessness. We must fight against the enemies of freedom, with respect for the rule of law and our fundamental values. That is our duty, democrats. We'll do the same. In other words, we must not abandon our freedoms and fundamental rights, which are enshrined in the Constitution. We must defend and respect them: the freedom of the individual, the inviolability of the home, the right to respect for everyone's private life. However, these rights and freedoms are not absolute and, in the fight against terrorism and in defence of our Constitutions, we must weigh up everything. We need to do this on a well-considered basis. If our fundamental rights and freedoms are to be affected, they must be defined and proportionate. The measures that are before us today can pass that test for our group. It is good that they have been submitted to the privacy committee and to the Council of State. It is also good that the comments made have been taken into account as far as possible. I would like to comment briefly on the searches and the arrests at night. It would have been easy to take a general measure. However, it has been carefully and clearly chosen to use this serious, far-reaching measure only in the fight against terrorism and heavy banditism. That is proportionate, well-considered and well-defined. Consequently, we will also approve this measure. It goes without saying that the telephone tap is a very profound and far-reaching measure for the privacy of all those involved. Since this measure is clearly defined and is used in addition only in the case of the arms trade, and in a subsidiary way, which I believe is important, we will also approve the provisions in this area. Finally, several of my fellow Members have already mentioned this, and we are dealing with an old one which our group has repeatedly called for. A legal basis is created to share information and personal data, not with anyone, but with those who have the legal right and duty to protect our security. We are pleased that this legal basis is now being put to the vote. I cannot stress enough the importance of this measure, for various reasons. Firstly, if our rules, such as our fundamental rights and freedoms and our rights of defence, are not respected, then the terrorists will be outside faster than we will have caught them. That is why we need a legal basis. Not only does our Belgian government say so, but it is also said at European and international level. We must therefore respect these rules, no matter how well-intentioned and legitimate the fight is. Secondly, it is important that channels are created. Those involved need to know who to report to and who to share what information with. If that information is shared, it must also be validated so that it can be assumed that the information in a database is correct. When that information is no longer up-to-date, it should be deleted. Internal and external control mechanisms should check the correctness and orderly nature of the flow, as well as respect for, inter alia, the right to privacy protection. All these reasons together bring us to one conclusion: we will vote for this draft in full conviction and in the hope that it will be put into practice on the ground. There is no point in adopting measures on paper; they must also be applied on the ground. So we give the means to those who are in daily contact with our security, our rights and our freedoms. I hope that we will soon receive maximum support for the measures put before Parliament today by the Minister of Justice for approval.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u128	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like very briefly to emphasise the importance of this draft law. Our group will, of course, support this bill. We are going to support our minister in that. The most important thing is that we want to approve all of this. I am very pleased with what Mr Demeyer said at the end of his speech. He mentioned the balance contained in this bill and the importance of certain measures. It is a good thing for the opposition and especially for the PS to agree to this, in all intellectual honesty. For the rest, I will not repeat the various measures, as my fellow Members have already done so. We must now take these measures. We will never know if they could have prevented the terrible events of 22 March. They are certainly measures that we must take for our people and our policemen. If we do not take these measures, this might be criminal. The Terro Committee has worked well together. I hope this continues. We will also agree with an amendment tabled by Mr Bonte because it further perfects what is being proposed here. I believe that it is going the right way, and that is why my group will of course approve these measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u129	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we all share a great deal of frustration after 22 March, after Charlie Hebdo, after Verviers, after the Thalys incident, and so on. I believe that we are all painfully going through what terrorists are capable of. At the same time, as representatives of this assembly, we must dare to understand the relativity of what laws can do. The previous speaker, Mrs Van Cauter, referred to criminalising people to leave. My experience in this area shows that, unfortunately, laws cannot stop people. This is an illustration of the frustration which I believe we share in this regard. Unfortunately, such a gruesomely complex problem cannot be solved by means of laws alone. However, I agree with you, Mrs Van Cauter, when you say that it is our duty to provide the security services with the best possible tools, opportunities and means to act decisively. I say this even though I am one of those who are convinced that radicalism can certainly and surely not be mastered by repressive measures alone. So we need to look for efficiency effectively. That is why we need legislation. That brings me to the design that is ahead of us. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the sp.a. fully supports the draft law because it contributes to what we are also advocating: greater efficiency and greater efficiency for our security services. We also included certain elements of the draft law in legislative proposals, which we withdrew. I am thinking, for example, of important elements such as the night-time searches and the phone taps. The legal basis for databases is not too early. In the meantime, everyone has been informed through the media that there is still some chaos in the exchange of information between databases today. So I think it is particularly good that a legal basis is now being created for this. I am grateful to my fellow Members for going into committee earlier on a bill that we had tabled and now trying to get added in the form of an amendment to this bill, which we were trying to make the difficult bridge between the judicial investigation and the information that is due there and the local police forces who are tasked with monitoring people closely. I believe that this bridge is important and that it can also be used locally. This can reinforce police and administrative services in their difficult challenge of closely monitoring those FTF officers, or of being visible and clinging to them as described in the letter of the Justice and Home Affairs Ministers. I therefore hope that these local police services will be better armed, where they often have to work blindly today. I am therefore grateful to my fellow Members for having fully supported this in committee. By way of conclusion, I am addressing in particular the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice. There has already been talk here of hard work over the past 13 years. A new design is announced: Terror 2 or Terror 3. A committee of inquiry is about to be set up to investigate carefully what can be done better and which apparently also has to look for those responsible. However, I think that we all have to recognise that there is a lot of executive work on the table. Executive tasks related to dysfunctions, which have to do with problems in information flow, which have to do with a lack of capacity in certain cases, which have to do with a lot of things. It is my feeling that I am addressing the ministers who are constantly getting involved in a major incident, the willingness to solve a number of issues and to break down a number of taboos is great. My frustration is also that this willingness to do away with it as quickly as possible and that we are left with the same difficulties. This should not be the case this time, ladies and gentlemen, members of the government. This is in line with the Prime Minister's call. We must try to eliminate the existing taboos, especially in the field of work, across majority and opposition. We can achieve efficiency. There has just been a debate on airport records and the issue of security cards. There's work to do. I read in the newspaper that Minister Homans pointed out yesterday in the Flemish Parliament that in the capital a number of municipalities do not carry out their circular letter, which is crucial in the follow-up of the FTF members. I'm expressing myself nicely. I think she is right that we can and should do better in that regard. I would like to highlight the problem of population registers, which is the basis of security policy. A number of mayors say quite clearly that they can't get that right. That's a misconception of legislation, circular letters, guidelines. The security policy fond. I would like to point out that there is indeed a very uneven police capacity between different police zones. I can point out that we can actually achieve efficiency by increasing the scale of police work. I like to point to Brussels, but I also look at Flanders. I'm also looking at my region. My governor has also launched the message that we need to go to larger police zones. I hope we can get the taboos out of there too. In a number of cases, after the attacks in Brussels and Maalbeek, we must not waste another second. You will not be able to explain to me, Ministers, that a police zone such as mine or a zone in Brussels, which has to oversee dozens of FTFs, does not have direct access to, for example, STIB's camera network. One cannot consult that online, but has to follow them up. There are cameras in every metro station, but one can't use them. That's not normal anymore. The same applies to Securail. In every major train station in our country there is camera surveillance. However, it is monitored in Brussels. The local police zones can't handle that. That is no longer normal when, rightly, people expect local police areas to be maintained and closely monitored. Mr Home Secretary, I was pleased to see you using resources to expand the ANPR camera network. I'm okay with that. As you know, in the police area for which I am responsible, I am also making efforts in this area. You know that there is a support base in the Brussels border to further roll out this network. Colleagues, it is not normal that the license plates of the FTF are not in all police areas in the system today. We have seen how mobile they are, we have seen that the FTF attackers have links with different police zones, with Verviers, with Brussels, with Vilvoorde, with elsewhere. It's not normal that those license plates aren't in the system of the network that exists today. Ladies and gentlemen, I can go on for a while, for example, on the issue of ankle tyres. There's still a lot of efficiency to pick up. However, we will not regulate this here as legislators. I believe that I am right to call for the strengthening of the executive, with a government commissioner, to tackle all these practical issues quickly and to eliminate the small and large taboos in the field. I think we should consider this. Definitely the government has to do that. I would like to draw your attention to history, ladies and gentlemen. At the time of the dioxin crisis, when chickens were long out of reach, it proved useful to appoint a government commissioner to simplify procedures, strengthen controls and broaden supervision. What can be done in the event of a food crisis should certainly be possible in the event of a terrorist crisis such as we are experiencing here. I therefore urge you not to wait until all the trees are equally thick, until the Terro Committee has made its analysis or the Committee of Inquiry has made its analysis. We all benefit from giving the government more power to deal with them quickly and efficiently for all the practical issues that are still effectively being discussed today, which are well known and on which there is no discussion. At that time, you will also be able to count on our party to support that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u130	Mr President, Ministers, first of all, I would like to stress the importance of the current discussion and debate on the fight against terrorism and the necessary strengthening of the sovereign functions of our federal state, in which successive governments have consistently disinvested over the last ten years. The debate we have here is therefore crucial in general, since security is a common good that must be guaranteed for all our fellow citizens, and more particularly following the terrible attacks of 22 March, which are still very much present in the minds of all Belgians. A rapid, serious, thorough and proportionate political response was therefore required, particularly in the context of the work of the Terrorism Committee. However, speed and precipitation should not be confused. I would like to remind you that we regret that we have not been able to organise hearings in the context of the analysis of this text. We could have done so quickly, shortenedly during the Easter holidays, but this was refused despite our request. Having said that, my Ecolo-Groen Group intends to participate in this debate constructively, while keeping a critical eye, as we have always done. Yes, problems must be solved, but it is equally important to meet specific criteria for adopting new regulations. I would like to take this opportunity to recall the criteria that we, as environmentalists, use as a matter of priority in the texts discussed in connection with the fight against terrorism. First, it is necessary to determine whether legislation is really necessary and to consider whether existing regulations are not sufficient to meet the challenges. Secondly, to assess whether any new legislation leads to greater efficiency and effectiveness. Real progress must be made in these areas for any new measures taken. Thirdly, the balance between the objective of regulation, in this case the effective fight against terrorism, and respect for fundamental rights, is crucial to us. In this regard, it is important to note that a number of relevant issues were raised by the Privacy Commission in its consideration of this text. In addition, it gave a negative opinion on six points. The main questions relate to the need to create a new data bank rather than to further develop existing tools. I will now go into the more detailed analysis of the measures contained in the bill. With regard to searches, the bill provides for a sixth exception to night searches. This exception concerns, on the one hand, all offences related to terrorism and, on the other hand, those relating to criminal organisations and criminal associations. In this second case, the explicit condition of acute danger is added, namely the existence of indications that the persons concerned will oppose the search using specific means (firearms, explosives, etc.).). However, this condition is not imposed in the case of terrorist offences which may therefore include, for example, the distribution of leaflets. In such cases, a night search may also be authorized even if the person concerned is not at all armed. That is our main concern about this first step in the bill. Why does this explicit condition not apply to this category of terrorism-related offences as well? In its opinion, the Council of State stressed that, in such cases, it should be necessary to provide additional procedural or material justification. In this regard, it refers to French legislation. For the government, therefore, no special motivation is required and the mere finding of a possible terrorist offence is sufficient to justify a night search. This is a regret on our part and we would have liked such a motivation to be requested. For the rest, we support this measure in principle, but we call for the regulation to be drafted with the necessary care and prudence. With regard to strengthening the means to combat arms trafficking, Ecolo-Groen welcomes the government's attention, finally, to this issue that we are putting forcefully forward since the attacks on Charlie Hebdo. We therefore fully support this measure. With regard to the provisions on data banks, we believe that the creation of a dynamic data bank is absolutely necessary in the fight against terrorism. However, we have significant reservations about the practical way in which the government wishes to implement such a system. First, the proposed regulation refers to the creation of "one or more data banks". This leads us to question the actual scope of the provisions of the bill. Is the establishment of several additional dynamic databases not likely to make the situation even more complex? Is there any intention to connect all these data banks to each other and, if so, is there any assurance that such a system will work, even though it is currently failing? Will existing databases be integrated into the new data bank(s) dedicated to terrorism and then deleted as such? The explanatory memorandum of the draft law further states that "common management of personal data and information should be considered, provided that at least two departments are required to cooperate in the prevention and monitoring of such phenomena". However, there are many such collaborations. For example, between the State Security and the SGRS, between the local police and the federal police, between the local police and the State Security, etc. Will a dynamic data bank be created for each collaboration? In other words, how many new data banks will be involved in practice and how will they relate to each other? In our view, the new system will have no added value on the ground if it does not provide a clear answer to these questions. On this point, the government's opinion does not reassure. Indeed, the argument is as follows: "The choice of the legal integration of the common data banks referred to in the law on the police function is based on the fact that the police will be able to provide technical support to the data banks, since the police have the technical capacity." In our view, this contrasts strongly with the content of reports from Committee P, for example, which are overwhelming in terms of the technical capacity of the police to manage data banks. From this perspective, the government's argument is far from appeasing our fears. In conclusion, in this chapter on databases, we note that the purpose of the database is to counter the phenomena of terrorism and extremism that may lead to terrorism. In doing so, how will data on terrorist offences be cross-checked with data on conventional offences? Current investigations indicate that persons suspected of terrorism, whose names are mentioned in investigations, are sometimes not known for terrorist offences, but for acts of great banditry. It will therefore inevitably be necessary to cross-check the data relating to the different offences in order to detect any potential danger. In conclusion, my Ecolo-Groen group understands and shares the objectives of the bill under consideration and the principles underlying those objectives. That is why, in committee and during the vote in plenary, we will support this text as a whole. This did not prevent us from abstaining, in order to remain consistent with what I have just explained, on the actual articles organizing the databases. For this reason, ministers, our support does not represent a blank cheque because we have expressed serious reservations about the practicality of the measures related to databases, which we will therefore follow with the utmost attention. We also urge you, with the utmost insistence, to follow and respect the many relevant comments made in the opinions of the Council of State and the Commission for the Protection of Privacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u131	Mr President, I will speak from my bench because I will be brief. Our group welcomes these bills and legislative proposals that will be put to our vote in a few moments. This is the first time that the Committee on Terrorism has carried out concrete legislative work that has been successful. These three measures are part of the measures announced by the government following the Paris attacks; some of them, such as the issue of the dynamic database, were announced a year ago by the Minister of Justice. We welcome these measures. They will make it possible to combat terrorism more effectively. They were expected by the security services in particular. It seems to us that they are proportional and respect the values we hold, such as privacy, proportionality and procedural guarantees through an investigating judge. As much as we did not discuss the 24-hour raids at all / 24 on terrorism - it was known that there were already exceptions to the ban on night searches in relation to drug trafficking - so much so that we did not discuss the issue of telephone taps related to arms trafficking, so much so, it is true, on the issue of databases, we have read carefully the opinion of the Council of State and the Privacy Commission. We also asked the government about the thousandsheet of databases because we know how central this issue of data exchange is. We have not yet succeeded in sufficiently exchanging relevant data and ensuring that, once transmitted to the databases, these data can be analysed and proactively addressed in the fight against terrorism. It's really central. We had some perplexity about this proposal for a new database. We listened to the government's arguments and noted in particular that this was the result of a long work by all the security services, all the experts involved in handling sensitive data in Belgium in the fight against terrorism and serious crime. We were told this was the best option. We are not technically competent enough to say otherwise. So we joined in. We did not abstain, but the question remains. It will be necessary to check whether this device is really the most suitable. We wanted to be of good value and demonstrate our desire to support the efforts made, but it will be necessary to check in the future whether, in the area of information exchange, the arrangements put in place are appropriate. It won't save the money knowing what we're doing to interconnect all the databases. We know, and this has been discussed in the follow-up committees of the P and R committees, that they are numerous and spread across a range of police and intelligence services. It will be necessary to ensure that the relevant information can be used by all those in need. In particular, we welcome the amendment tabled by Mr Bonte which allows local police and mayors to have access to certain information important for the fight against terrorism, in which they also have a role to play. Our party will support all the proposals that are on the table today and we hope that in the future we can continue to move forward in the fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u132	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can reassure you. I don't mean to break the bill. On the contrary, the proposals it contains are realistic and justified and should have been put into practice for a long time. Nocturnal searches, the extension of pre-trial detention, the extension of the telephone tap, a legal basis for the databases in our country and better coordination in this area seem to me to be obvious. As is often the case in politics, the design is a typical example of flame-flammation policy. The committee led by Mr Koen Metsu was set up after the attacks in Paris and for four months, until the attacks in Brussels, a committee headed by Mr Koen Metsu led me to the euphemistic expression of the existence of a dormant existence. There were a lot of hearings, with everything that came into view, to hide in the end that there was no consensus, not only in the majority, but also outside, because we needed a two-thirds majority in order to finally put these proposals into a draft law and get them adopted here. As is often the case in politics, there was also a need for a new impetus. The attacks in Paris were not enough in that respect. The attacks in Brussels were necessary before the committee finally came to the conclusion that it was now really necessary to put the proposals into practice. If it had not been for the attacks in Brussels, Mr Metsu might still have been looking for a two-thirds majority to implement the proposals. We shall therefore vote in favour of the proposals, because we have long felt that they were correct and justified and that they had been put into practice better in the past. Does that mean, however, that all the problems have now been solved? Will the terrorists spare our country in the future, for the sake of these proposals? I don't think so, on the contrary. This is anything but the patriot act that Bart De Wever, President of Mr Metsu, advocated some time ago. He wanted a Flemish patriot act, well, this text, this bill is not even a faint cook of the American patriot act. Do we need special investigative methods that allow terrorists, alleged, potential and terrorists who have established that they have committed acts of terrorism to be questioned through these methods? Yeah, that's what we need. Do we need an extension of the mandate and powers of investigators to do what needs to be done when it comes to terrorism? Yeah, that's what we need. Is it necessary to ban terrorist, jihadist and salafistic symbols? Yes, such a ban is necessary. Should a number of salafistic, wahabist and jihadist mosques and locals be closed in this country? Yeah, they need to be shut down. Should we ensure that salafistic and Islamic extremist literature is prevented and that there is an index for this kind of literature? Yeah, we should. And so I can go on for a while. In difficult times, as is the case at present, we have to call on the Commission, and I have heard this a number of times in committee, not too much and not too often, to invoke a number of democratic rights for people who do not respect democracy. The terrorist threat we are currently facing in this country and elsewhere in Europe does not respect democracy, if it is to destroy democracy, if it is to destroy our society and the values and standards it stands for. In the end, we must not want and dare to be more holy than the Pope, we must be bold, we must make exceptions, special legislation and a Belgian patriot act possible to limit terrorism. And not just terrorism. As a result of the discussion on the setting up of the Committee of Inquiry, I shall go into this in more detail. Terrorism is just one of the many facets of Islam radicalism in this country. The policy of tolerance in the past with regard to salafism, with regard to wahabism, with regard to Islamism, has for decades laid the foundations for the terrorism that we have now experienced in our country a few weeks ago. So we must also dare to take firm and firm action against it. Anyway, with the bill we cut some branches off the tree and that's better than nothing. However, we do not touch the tree itself and certainly not the roots. However, all beginnings are difficult. We will be lenient, and that is why we will at least approve the bill. May I perhaps draw your attention, however, and I am sure that I will turn to the Flemish nationalists at the N-VA for Article 8 of this bill? You will not be unaware of the fact that the definition of extremism is "racist, xenophobic, anarchist" and then comes the "nationalist, authoritarian or totalitarian views or intentions whether they are of a political, ideological, confessional or philosophical nature which are theoretically or in practice contrary to the principles of democracy or human rights, to the proper functioning of democratic institutions or other foundations of the rule of law. I know, it has been slightly corrected by Article 139. I won't quote that. If the article were to be abused, it would, of course, be possible to apply it, on the basis of the concept of nationalism, to a number of parties and organizations, Mr Home Secretary, which should not at any time be endorsed by that legislation as such. My party has been on the list of state-of-the-art organizations long enough to at least be vigilant when I read that kind of passuses in a bill. I am somewhat surprised that the N-VA has finally left the term nationalistic in an article that ultimately defines extremism. Were we also supposed to mention socialism, Islam and what other ideology should not have been mentioned? I leave the question and the answer to it open. In any case, in my opinion, the word nationalism does not fit into the list of indications in the context of a definition of the word extremism. But I also want to spread the cloak of love on this subject, because I think it is indeed necessary to put the proposed articles into practice. I only hope that Article 8 (C) will never abuse the draft law to hit Flemish national groups or parties. I do not believe that this should or should not be the intention. At least let the warning be noted. Should that ever be the case, I will not fail to refer to my concern, which I have expressed here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u133	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this 22nd March our country and its democratic values were touched in the heart. Such violations of our freedoms, such acts of violence and hatred are intolerable. In the aftermath of these horrific attacks, it was time for national unity and recollection, tributes and support for the victims and their loved ones. Then, quickly, the reality of parliamentary work caught up with us to learn from events and adopt new measures in the fight against terrorism. For example, one week to the day after the attacks, the Counter-Terrorism Committee passed this bill, the first bill introduced since it was introduced last November. We needed a strong gesture. I would now like to hope that the pace of the commission's work will remain just as strong on the other issues it will be dealing with and that the constructive proposals of the opposition can now be analysed without having to wait for bills on the same subjects to be tabled. To return to this bill, I will not surprise you by saying that my group will support it, given the legislative shortcomings on the ground, but also the generally positive views of the Privacy Commission and the Council of State. The extension of the possibility of carrying out searches between 9 p.m. and 5 a.m. to terrorist offences and criminal associations and organizations possessing prohibited weapons was indeed necessary. The judicial investigations into the attacks in Paris and Brussels have shown this to us again. While this possibility already existed, there was some legal confusion that needed to be removed in order to limit disputes on the ground. As for the expansion of the use of wiretapping to combat arms trafficking and terrorism, my party has always supported this idea. My colleague Olivier Maingain and I tabled a proposal last November to amend the Code of Criminal Investigation to that effect. I regret, however, that the government has not gone further. Indeed, the Weapons Act also has shortcomings that terrorists benefit from. As explained in our bill, we consider it useful to extend to new terrorist offences convictions making applications for licences for the possession of firearms inadmissible, to specify the procedure for the transfer of firearms imported into Belgium, with a view to improving their traceability, to allow the prosecution, whenever it justifies it, to verify compliance with the conditions necessary to maintain its authorization and authorization for the possession of a firearm. We also proposed the introduction of a parliamentary oversight mechanism, to which the bill responds, but we do not say that this review will have to lead to at least an annual report, which we regret. As for the creation of a common data bank, we fully understand its usefulness. There is an urgent need to optimize the collection, exchange, processing, management and updating of personal data and information crucial to the fight against terrorism. We are also pleased to note that the project is more ambitious than the circular on the exchange of information and monitoring of foreign terror fighters, which my colleague, Olivier Maingain, highlighted the shortcomings. Finally, we welcome the guarantees enshrined in the draft: the opinion of the R Committee and the Police Information Review Body as a prerequisite for the development of the rules on data registration, the three-year review of data, the conditional archiving of data, the appointment of a security and privacy adviser or – and this is really crucial – the exchange of data with foreign services. Therefore, we will, of course, support the entire project, while drawing attention to two points. First, the problems of managing existing databases on terrorism will have to be resolved. Secondly, sufficient financial, human and administrative resources will have to be provided to support all of our police and intelligence services. Without these means, you will have to adopt the best measures in the world, but they will never be fully effective in the face of the scourge of terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u134	Mr President, I will not be long since I have already been able to make criticisms of this project in committee. It is true that I had the satisfaction of seeing repeated one of my criticisms regarding the absence of any reference to article 139, paragraph 2, of the Criminal Code. However, I believe that this is not enough to make this project acceptable. First of all, because there is generally a legislative leak from this government. Thus, rather than analyzing the malfunctions of a system, new laws are being introduced without considering the issues to be addressed. This amounts to putting the plough before the ox. It is also apparent that the government, instead of taking targeted and effective measures against terrorism, is taking general measures (public coverage, general surveillance, etc.). However, this poses problems both in terms of democracy and in terms of effectiveness in the fight against terrorism. I will briefly review the three points relating to this project. First, with regard to the extension of special measures on arms trafficking, apart from the general objection I have just made, we have little to say about since this is the general framework for combating arms trafficking, that it is well defined and that the law provides for the use of an investigating judge. On the other hand, with regard to the second point concerning the possibility of searches and deprivation of liberty at night, there were indeed problems. These are serious offences against the person and his freedoms. Moreover, it must be noted that it is already possible, under existing legislation, to carry out such searches at night if this proves to be truly necessary. I therefore do not see what this second point can do for the fight against terrorism. On the other hand, the associated drifts for the entire population seem clear to me. With regard to the third aspect, databases, the problem is similar. First, it is noted that instead of assessing all the deficiencies that already exist and that the P Committee has identified, one layer is returned. Secondly, there are very vague and dubious definitions of terrorism or extremism that can lead to terrorism. These issues have been criticized by the Privacy Commission. Once again, the government is taking general measures, not targeted ones, which will undermine the effectiveness of the fight against terrorism and the respect for certain democratic rights. The PTB does not consider it necessary to remain passive in the face of terrorism. That is why we have introduced motions for resolutions and legislation with very specific provisions. In any case, we believe that the government is wrong in its approach to this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u135	Mr President, I would like to take the floor on the order of business. This afternoon we took note of the Prime Minister's reply to the questions on the security of our airports and the involvement of Minister Galant's cabinet. In his reply he took a very clear position. He said that the cabinet did not have the European audit. You were able to hear that answer together with us. At the moment new information is leaking out, showing that the cabinet would have gotten that information. In fact, very specific arrangements were made, meetings and meetings were held with the administration on this audit. So now we have no choice but to ask the Prime Minister for an explanation. The Rules of Procedure of the Chamber also provide for this. Mr Nollet, Mr Van Hecke, Mr Hellings and myself have prepared a procedural motion here, based on Rule 54 of the Rules of Procedure. The content of our order motion is very simple. The Prime Minister said a this afternoon, but in the meantime it would prove b. The Prime Minister must therefore return to this plenary session. Mr President, I would like to propose that we discuss our order of business together so that we can be clear soon after the Prime Minister's statement, which seems to be quite different from reality. There is an urgent need for him to go back to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u136	Mr President, in plenary we did have a debate. The Prime Minister was asked a very clear question. We asked him whether or not the firm and/or the government were aware of critical information. That was the main issue in the debate that led us this afternoon, just after the budget debate. While there were 150 of us – we are a little fewer now – the Prime Minister replied straight into our eyes: "Yes, indeed. We didn't know. There was no contact between the officials and the minister on the one hand." It is still an important piece of information about the minister's credibility. Minister Galant herself argued in the same direction. We had a little more doubt because we got used to the fact that Minister Galant doesn't always say reality. Now, through the press, we learn that there are two clear and clear e-mails that indicate, indisputably, that this information has actually been passed on to the minister. Mr President, once again we are confronted with a case of dishonest lies on the part of a minister. Mr President, since it has become clear once again that Minister Galant has once again lied to Parliament and that we are all still here in plenary, I really want to join in calling on the Prime Minister to come before Parliament again so that we can resume the debate where it had ended, so that we can re-examine the debate on the issue before the lies and so that we can have a debate on the ground, in particular on the responsibility of the Minister. I therefore urge you to ask the Prime Minister to come back so that he can conduct a substantive debate, not based on lies. The minister has to come and explain herself, otherwise I will relay the request of my comrade and colleague Mr. Van Hees: It would be time for Mrs Galant to accept politically the train ticket she accepted for a one-way trip to Jurbise. It is unacceptable that once again he has been seen lying to us here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u137	Mr. Chairman, the Prime Minister came earlier to explain to us that Galant had not received the documents. Clearly, and I have the evidence before me, neither did the Prime Minister have the right information on the transmission of documents. Mr President, in relation to what happened earlier on topical issues, the least we can say is that the version presented by the Prime Minister is absolutely not in line with reality. I think resuming the discussion would be a minimum. The discussion of this early afternoon was beyond reality. I also ask that the Prime Minister be brought in. It is up to the government to decide whether it comes alone or with Minister Galant to explain itself to the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u138	Mr President, following the front page of L'Echo, as I am not always on my mailbox and as I was participating in a radio program at RTBF, I did receive Mr Ledoux's e-mail. I was warned by text messages and I went to L'Echo's website. Mr Ledoux sent it to me in parallel with the journalists. I was going to send it to you because it's important information. They seem to show that the European Commission's report has been forwarded to Mrs Galant's office. I have two proposals to make. I've heard other people's proposals. If this is not possible tonight, we can hold a meeting of the combined committees on Infrastructure and the Interior tomorrow, with Mrs Galant and the Prime Minister. It's either one or the other. In any case, we are open to any proposal. I will send you these e-mails, even if they are available on the Internet, so that they can be distributed to all members.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u139	Mr President, we have to beat the iron while it's hot. You have heard enough requests to do so. Since there's an additional element coming in to charge Mrs Galant, we have to die the abscess right away.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u140	Mr President, this is a crucial moment. We had an exchange with the Prime Minister earlier. I understand better his caution then, which had surprised me relatively. We now have the decoding of this prudence. I think that within the majority, without knowing who exactly, some were already aware of what we were going to discover a few hours later. Ms Lalieux received an e-mail attesting not only to the transmission of the European Commission's audits to the cabinet of Minister Galant on 26 June 2015, but also to the fact that a meeting had already been held with the cabinet on 27 March of the same year. Dear parliamentary colleagues from the majority or the opposition, it is important that the House be respected. If the Prime Minister had doubts earlier, it was probably because he wanted to respect Parliament, but now his doubts have been removed. We have evidence that Galant had received the documents and that meetings were held. Mr President, on this basis I propose that you take advantage of the motion that has been tabled so that we can, at this sitting, benefit from the clarification of these new elements. You have in your hands the motion that the environmentalists have tabled. As you know, we're open about the modalities, but we're not going to let time go. We understand that a Conference of Presidents should not be convened immediately. We agreed to wait to observe the evolution of things. Mr President, I believe that the facts now speak for the silence of Mrs Galant.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u141	Mr President, we have all heard what the Prime Minister has said. I think the Prime Minister has aligned his statements with the information he has received from Mrs Galant. That makes sense, too. I don't close any negative intentions to the Prime Minister. We do not have any indication of this at the moment. In any event, on the basis of what he had received more than probably from the minister's cabinet, he said here that he did not know that he could have done so, and also that the document had only come from two officials with security clearance and had not been forwarded to the cabinet. The website of La Libre clearly shows the e-mail that was sent on 26 June 2015, more than a year ago, which says: "déscription dossier: EU-Inspection DGLV, March 2015." Then it is quite clear that there was mail traffic on that document. I can't explain it any other way. If we ask for information on a topical issue on a Thursday afternoon, we are entitled to an answer. To this day, I assume that the Prime Minister has replied in good faith. I can't say the opposite at the moment. It is clear that the information given here is wrong, is incorrect and that Parliament has been given wrong information. Mrs Galant or the Prime Minister is responsible for this. One of them is responsible. A Parliament cannot afford to ask for clarification on this. I have a proposition. I am also addressing the members of the majority. As you know, I do not intervene so often here, but I would like to ask clearly that it should not be put to a vote here. We will not vote in Parliament on whether we are getting information from the government. I propose that the President of the Chamber ask Mrs Galant or the Prime Minister to come here. That's the logic itself. If the President asks, ministers must come. I do not want to make this a game between majority and minority. A parliament that respects itself a little bit must now be made clear about this. That's everyone's question. We can do that by means of a motion, which we then have to vote on. However, it would be very unfortunate to have a majority against minority debate here on the principle that if we get an answer in the afternoon, which appears to be a few hours later than problems, we will respond to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u142	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind the Chamber that we are in the process of drafting a bill on terrorism. I would also like to point out that a number of fellow Members are referring to Rule 54 of the Rules of Procedure. We have been debating the substance of the matter for some time now, but the first thing you need to do, Mr President, is to decide whether or not you consider that order to be admissible. You will then have to determine a time at which that motion may be tabled for discussion. You must make a proposal to the Chamber. If the Chamber does not agree with that or if there is any disagreement, then the Chamber must sit and stand up. I want to. An email or a message can be sent here every hour that contradicts the explanation of 14 hours, 15 hours or 16 hours. I think that at some point the Chamber can re-examine the matter, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. At the same time, we must ensure that our work is carried out properly, which means that we respect the agenda adopted unanimously in the group leaders' conference. I am talking very calmly about Rule 54 of the Rules of Procedure. Your group has tabled a motion and it is the chairman who must declare it admissible! Everyone is talking about e-mails - you surely know more than we do - but it is the Speaker who must determine a time when the House will be able to address this issue. Mr President, if you consider that the motion is admissible, that is one matter. A second matter is that you decide a time when we can consider the motion. I assume that this will be done after consultation with the government, as is customary. Then you make a proposal to the Chamber, after which the Chamber takes a stand on your proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u143	Mr Calvo, I would like to do this as Mr Dewael has presented. However, as long as someone asks for the floor, I must give it to him.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u144	Mr President, in the meantime, I know that, when Mr Dewael is standing, it is an important matter. I fully agree with him on this matter. Mr President, the debate on a thorny issue has just taken place in a very serene manner. Although the Prime Minister has barely given any answers, we have not destroyed the situation here. Mr Jambon, you are a former leader of the opposition. Mr Dewael, if it is now clear that what the Prime Minister has just said makes no sense and there is no doubt about his words, then we certainly cannot claim you as a Flemish liberal and democrat than the Prime Minister and the Minister responsible. In that case, there are two options. There is our sense of order that we have submitted. We can take the stages that Mr Dewael described fantasticly. Should Mrs Galant, in her capacity as Minister of Mobility, come out as firmly as Patrick Dewael with the Rules of Procedure, the country would look different. Then we should have the current debate. So we can follow that slope. However, we can also follow another slope. Mr Bracke, in your capacity as President of the Chamber, please contact the government and tell her that the best thing that can be done now is to ensure clarity. You can press for availability, bring together the group leaders in the Conference of Presidents and discuss together a time when the Prime Minister and Minister Galant will have the opportunity to provide text and explanations. After all, what we have just heard does not seem to be right.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u145	Mr President, this is really a matter of respect for Parliament. We cannot continue to accept that a minister quietly comes here to lie. We have learned this morning in the press that, in the ranks of the MR, parliamentarians are beginning to have a little bit of an ongoing duty to cover the gaffes of a minister. Now take your courage with two hands! Let Parliament, before which we have lied this afternoon, remind the Prime Minister or even Minister Galant, if she wishes – she does not speak to anyone at this time. Let us invite her to come here to be accountable and tell us why, once again, she lied to us. The Belgian people have the right to know why a minister, systematically, has to deal with matters. Anyone would do that in a company, it's "buiten," right now! You're lying in a company, you're outside! And as a minister in Belgium, you have the right to lie and to continue to lie. Come on, it's time, democratically, to allow the minister's hearing!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u146	What is needed is a debate on the order of business. We are essentially applying article 54. I have here the mood of order in which the Prime Minister is called upon to come and explain his statement just now, in response to the new information. We know what it's about. I have not received any documents from Mrs Lalieux with another proposal, but I must admit that this is not necessary to do what you are proposing. I repeat this for all those who were not there at the time of Mrs Lalieux's speech: the proposal is to organise tomorrow, in the presence of the Prime Minister and the Minister for Mobility, a joint committee on Infrastructure and the Interior. In accordance with Rule 54, I declare this motion admissible. In the meantime, I can inform you that we are making contact with the Prime Minister's cabinet. We will then determine a time when we will deal with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u147	We shall now move on to the agenda. We have heard several speakers on the terrorist drafts. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u148	Mr President, a mind shift to the previous point. I would very much like to thank Mr Calvo for bringing together so many people on this important subject. Mr President, before responding to a few comments made during the speeches and which have not yet been addressed in committee, I would like to thank both the majority parties and the opposition parties on behalf of the government for their cooperation in achieving this draft law which contains three important issues. Everyone, across the borders of majority and opposition, recognizes the importance of these three issues and everyone has also been constructively involved in the final achievement. I would also like to thank Mr Bonte for the constructive way in which his important amendment, which still needed to be updated, has led to a solution. The majority parties will strongly support Mr Bonte's amendment. I repeat it in French. I thank the parties and groups of both the majority and the opposition for their cooperation on this extremely important issue. I don't have to convince anyone. I shall address a few points which may not have been dealt with in committee. Mr Demeyer, with regard to your remarks that are not specified in this law – here we are talking about a framework law – like the one on who will manage the databases, they will be stipulated in the royal decree that is presented to the Council of Ministers. Then you asked a question about the on-call time of the data. Perhaps our explanation in committee was unclear and I want to give you the precise information. For this law, the same principles are applied as for police databases. This means that the data will be stored in the database for a maximum of 30 years. During this time, they can be erased. Beyond this period, they will be archived for a further thirty years. Finally, Mr Bonte has made a suggestion on camera images. We also experienced that terrible day on March 22nd. Your suggestions certainly deserve to be examined further. We need to see how we can materialize. I take these suggestions to heart and we will see how we can proceed with them. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Geens.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u149	Mr President, I have nothing to add but to thank the opposition for its very constructive cooperation. I have nothing to add but to thank the opposition for its very constructive cooperation. Everything has been said in the committee, in any case as far as I am concerned. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u150	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u151	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1727/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1727/7) The draft law has 14 articles. The bill has 14 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u152	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u153	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 1752: Peter De Roover, Laurette Onkelinx, Denis Ducrame, Servais Verherstraeten, Patrick Dewael, Meryame Kitir, Jean-Marc Nollet, Kristof Calvo, Catherine Fonck - 1626: Barbara Pas, Filip Dewinter, Jan Penris. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these two proposals. I propose that you devote one discussion to these two proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u154	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u155	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of Mrs Van Cauter and myself, I will give you the report of the Committee on Justice which our House has entrusted with examining the two texts which you have just mentioned. I would say that a third could have been joined, namely the proposal put forward at the time by the CDH, but that I suggested that we should not join, given that we had co-signed, with all the groups in this Parliament, the proposal which served as the basis for our discussions, that put forward by all the group leaders. Prior to this discussion, Mr Dewinter, on behalf of his group, had the opportunity to set out the content of his own proposal. After that, our committee decided to work on the basis of the text tabled by the various group leaders. I'm not gonna do an inventory of everything that's been said. I recall, however, that there was real unanimity on the text under discussion, with each of the speakers agreeing that the particular moment in the country justified the combination of democratic forces to shed light on the tragic events in our country, their chronology, the responsibilities in gathering information, the implementation of measures, the follow-up of attacks and the contribution to victims. Everyone also welcomed the fact that this committee would also have to work on the reasons that prompted nationals who were in our territory to wait, in such a harsh, brutal, savage and dramatic way for what is the basis of our living together and our democratic values. The committee unanimously adopted the text as tabled. The committee will be composed of 17 members chosen on a proportional basis with an alternate, which initiated a discussion in the head of the various representatives of non-recognised political groups and not members of the Bureau, all of which have tabled amendments aimed at being able to participate in one way or another in the work of the committee of inquiry. This request was not accepted. The committee unanimously adopted the text, as tabled, by the 17 members of the committee, stressing also that the report and the recommendations to be attached thereto should be tabled by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u156	Mrs Van Cauter, you do not intervene as rapporteur? I would like to thank Mr Brotcorne. Three speakers took part in the general discussion. However, Mr Calvo will not intervene so that I can give the floor to Mrs Pas.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u157	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the attacks on 22 March were yet another declaration of war by radical Islam on the free West. After the attacks in London, Madrid, the Jewish Museum, Charlie Hebdo, Paris, they formed a new, particularly sad highlight in a row of ever more horrific acts of violence. A committee of inquiry must be set up. Everything must of course be done to prevent a new atrocity of Muslim extremists. There must be clarity about the many mistakes and mistakes, there must be answers, preferably quick answers, to the many questions. It's the least you can do for the victims and their families. The need for an in-depth investigation of the terrorist approach in this country has long been convinced of this. Belgium has paid a very high price for the years of tolerance policy and for the cordon sanitary around the public debate on the advancing Islam terror, as a Dutch newspaper rightly wrote. In all the attacks I have just listed, there were always links with Brussels. The warnings were many, but you have always wronged the messenger. In recent decades, Flemish Interest has warned and put forward proposals to prevent such situations. We have pointed out the consequences of mass immigration and Islamisation and the dangers of Islam fanatics. We have asked dozens of questions about anarchy, impunity and Muslim extremistism in Molenbeek alone. If I now read that Mr Dewael will probably be the chairman of the Committee of Inquiry, I think he is absolutely the perfect person for that. We have just seen how he uses his experience and knowledge of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, and he will not fail to do so in committee, so that at the right time the right people can be put out of the wind. That's how I experienced it on the Fortis Commission. Mr Dewael, you are also an expert on the subject. Unfortunately, I have left the documents on my couch, but I have a whole stack of oral questions that my former colleagues Mr Laeremans and Mr De Man have put to you in your then office as Minister of the Interior. There are also questions about Molenbeek at the time of Hind Fraihi. You will probably remember that at the time you accused us of not being so bad. Ladies and gentlemen, we have warned against this. Not only did we warn of Muslim extremistism in general, we even warned of the brothers El Bakraoui in particular. In 2010 we discussed this not only here, but also in the Brussels Parliament. Then we asked for tough action against those two brothers, but we were literally hoarded in all languages. We, and by extension all Flemings, were literally dismissed by the PS as a gang of dumb-ass, because we thought that the same PS would better demand severe punishment for shooting a policeman with a kalashnikov, instead of doing that as a failure divers. I will not remind you of the quotes that were made at the time. Het FDF zei letterlijk: You shock all the democrats in this parliament. The then FDF leader, Didier Gosuin, said: "Brussels has better control of the situation than the other cities. Before March 22, those words might still sound laughable, but after March 22, they sound astounding. The impact of the terrorist network operating in Belgium continues to go back in time. Youssef Belhadj was one of the perpetrators of the terrorist attacks in Madrid on 11 March 2004, which killed 191 people and injured more than 2 000 people. Also that Youssef Belhadj stayed in Molenbeek. He was also arrested for the attacks in Madrid. In early 2015, there was the bloody attack on Charlie Hebdo's editorial staff in Paris. The heavy weapons of war with which the Kouachi brothers killed 12 innocent people came from Brussels. Also Amedy Coulibaly, the man who shot the customers in a Jewish supermarket in Paris, had purchased his weapons in Molenbeek. Also Ayoub el-Khazzani, who stepped on the Thalys in Brussels with a kalashnikov, supposedly intended to kill the passengers, stayed the months before in Molenbeek. Also the suspected perpetrator of the attack on the Jewish museum in 2014, Mehdi Nemmouche, lived in Molenbeek, just like some of the perpetrators of the attacks in Paris in November 2015 and just like Abaaoud, the brains behind the foiled attack in Verviers in January 2015. I could go on for a long time. The list is long and incomplete. Colleagues, in January 2016, I already tabled a proposal to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry on that terrorist cell in Molenbeek. You didn't think a committee of inquiry was necessary. At the beginning of March, it came to light that the federal police counter-terrorism unit would already have received detailed, reliable tips in 2014 on radicalisation and on Abdeslam's plans to commit an attack, a dossier currently being examined by the P Committee. We then repeated our call for the setting up of a committee of inquiry. We then extended our proposal to examine the overall functioning and failure of the anti-terrorist services. But even then, you all still didn't think a committee of inquiry was necessary. Apparently, alas, horrible attacks still had to be carried out, many more were killed, before you were convinced of them, before you could really do anything else. Today we will support the proposal to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry. We support any proposal to set up a committee of inquiry on such vital matters. There are a lot of questions that need to be answered clearly quickly. Interesting, useful information on the start-up of the attacks, actual chronology, the role of policy due to a lack of investment in police and intelligence services, the failure of the justice system, the failure of any other public services to obtain information and the flow of information, these are all matters that should and could come to the surface along this road. Of course we will support this, but, ladies and gentlemen, I have no confidence in it. I have no confidence in this committee of inquiry because essential matters are not even reflected in the terms of reference of the Committee of Inquiry. The words Islam, open borders, asylum, immigration are not mentioned. I have no confidence in it either, ladies and gentlemen, simply because of the composition of the Committee of Inquiry. The party that first asked for a committee of inquiry, which first warned and predicted the situation, is being dismissed. We're not getting a right to speak. We can't even attend the closed meetings. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, you are free to drown the fish. Today, we have seen the Prime Minister's response to the additional information on airport safety that should have been better provided, and we can see that another big fish is being added to drown with everyone else: Galantvis will also be drowned in that committee. The umbrella vendors are going to do gold business, just like in the Fortis Committee of Inquiry, where everyone was doing their utmost to get their minister out of the wind. You have the hands free to go the way of those umbrellas, of the relativization and of looking away. We have already had a serious taste of this in the joint committee before the Easter holidays in connection with the attacks. Ladies and gentlemen, that was a terrible charade. We then saw a Minister of the Interior who reduced matters to one mistake by one man and we saw a Minister of Justice who almost condoned everything. The Minister of Justice defended the lax justice policy, a policy of ankle straps and pats on the back, which this government again consolidated with the potpourri 2 in January. The criminal palmares of the brothers El Bakraoui was not as negative as is now proposed, according to Minister Geens in that committee. He repeated three times that Khalid El Bakraoui had served four fifths of his sentence, that everything had gone perfectly, that nothing was wrong. Not even half of a minor sentence after attempted murder with a weapon of war on a cop, as Ibrahim El Bakraoui did, according to Minister None, is the most normal thing in the world. That cascade of laxity isn't even questioned. Unfortunately, this is possible in surreal Belgium. I have heard and read a lot today and over the past few weeks that the investigation must be conducted without taboos, without political games. Ladies and gentlemen, I think you often repeat that in order to convince yourself of that. The proposal that you are going to adopt today is the result of one great political game, it is one big political agreement, which the small groups in this House still had to hear from the newspaper. Despite all the promises of openness and democracy, you have decided among yourselves to allow only the parties with butter on their heads, only the parties with blood on their hands in this committee of inquiry. Only those who participate in power or those who have been part of a majority of government in recent years can ask questions there. That is, of course, the best guarantee that the political theatre of that committee will function as one big umbrella. The ideal recipe for a cover-up, the ideal recipe for a money laundering operation. In this way, you are making it very easy to shift responsibility to an individual public service or to a number of specific officials. I didn't get any explanation why you wouldn't let us. It's not democratic to justify it either. If it is really your intention, as you yourself claim, to create clarity, then you should make use of fundamental criticism, of our accumulated expertise, rather than just repel it out of fear. As non-voting members, this could perfectly be done, ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with democratic conditions. This has always been the case in the past in committee of inquiry. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, why not add some members who are entitled to vote and thus represent all the elected parties in the committee? What's stopping self-declared democrats? The only argument I can find is that maybe there will be real clarity. I have heard the official argument: not to unnecessarily complicate the work. Colleagues of N-VA, do you consider that non-voting members in a committee of inquiry are making the work difficult? Can they not make a useful contribution? Then I wonder what you have done so far in that capacity in committee of inquiry. A few extra people in a committee to ask critical questions, is that unnecessarily difficult work? Or would it be the questions we would ask, which unnecessarily complicate the work? What questions would that be? What questions complicate the work of a committee? Questions about negligence and negligence on the part of previous governments and the current government? Questions about saving police and security services for decades? The question why most of the so-called security commission of EUR 200 million granted in the aftermath of the foiled attack in Verviers was not spent on the security of citizens but was used to pay back invoices from the Justice Department? Such questions. Why were our parliamentary questions not taken seriously in recent years, when we were talking about the potential danger of IS militias disguised as asylum seekers not fleeing war but just coming here to wage war? Why were no border controls introduced despite IS' own warnings that they would send terrorists with the flow of asylum seekers? Who will ask such questions in the Committee of Inquiry? Will you do that, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh? Will Stefaan Van Hecke do that? I'm sure you don't. There is only one party that would raise such matters in committee, as you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u158	Why could Laachraoui, a perpetrator of the attacks in December 2015 together with Abdeslam, freely and without any problem come with the flow of asylum seekers to Belgium from Syria, although they had been on a list of OCAD for two years? Why could Abaaoud also recruit unhindered jihadists in Syria and even make themselves happy about the Belgian federal authorities in a propaganda magazine of ISIS, precisely because they allowed him to travel freely between Belgium and Syria? Why can't I ask why Minister Galant hasn't answered my questions about the lax recruitment policy in Zaventem for months? Will you ask them, colleague Ducarme? I don't think so. Why can't I ask about Mohamed Belkaid, the Algerian who was shot in the search and illegally in the country? During that renowned committee meeting, Minister Geens confirmed that he was already known to the police for a theft in 2014. If an illegal criminal gets caught, he usually gets an order to leave the territory. Then why can't I ask whether the man was given such an order and, if so, whether that was followed up and that man was effectively expelled from the country? Are these all questions which unnecessarily complicate the work, ladies and gentlemen? I am sure that is not the case. These are all questions that you would prefer not to be asked. Ladies and gentlemen, if you forbid us to ask critical questions in a committee of inquiry, then we will have to submit all our questions to the relevant ministers and secretaries of state one by one in the standing committees. Perhaps that will make the work of the standing committees unnecessarily difficult, but we have no other choice. Any question you may not, or do not wish to ask in the Committee of Inquiry, or dare to ask, will be put to the relevant ministers, with the means at our disposal as elected representatives of the people. In order to give you sufficient inspiration, to ask the Committee of Inquiry some right questions and not just the questions that your own ministers are covering, my colleague, Filip Dewinter, will give you some questions from an initial series of hundred questions. Mr President, I come to my conclusion. A real committee of inquiry is needed. We will support them. However, the terms of reference and the composition of the Committee of Inquiry are, at least, a false start. You have the disadvantage of doubting whether you will effectively bring out the bottom stone, whether you will be able to expose all mistakes and blunders in this way and whether you will prevent the same mistakes and blunders from being repeated in the future. What I certainly do not believe in is that you will have the courage in the Committee of Inquiry to identify all political responsibilities. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make one final appeal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u159	Mrs. Pas, can you hold on a second? May I ask Members to keep the silence or at least to produce less noise?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u160	Mr President, it is symbolic of the way in which we have been seeing things for decades.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u161	Mrs Pas, it happens sometimes to others that I have to ask for silence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u162	It is precisely by looking away for decades, by never having dared to mention the problem by name and by crushing the messenger, that you have allowed it all to come so far. Let's get that through your head. Mr President, despite the fact that politics still prefers to look away and talk about other matters, I would like to make one final appeal to adopt the amendment that we have tabled in committee and that we are retabled here in plenary. The amendment aims, democratically, to give all elected parties the right to speak in committee and to delegate them to committee. In this way, our expertise and criticism can be used. Only in this way can you really create clarity, otherwise the committee will become a measure for nothing and will serve as a large umbrella.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u163	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the events of the last few weeks, the attacks in Brussels, it is more than necessary to set up a parliamentary committee. I do not understand, however, that the parties who propose to set up such a committee decide today to deliberately leave the Labour Party out of it. What is the problem if we join the committee and ask questions? What are you afraid of? The PVDA asks questions in many committees and gets answers there, but in this committee about the attacks the PVDA is not allowed in. I have not yet heard any argument as to why the PVDA should not be on the committee, Mr President. As you know, we do ask a lot of annoying questions in the field of taxation and the social recession that you are organizing in this country. We will also ask annoying questions about what has gone wrong in the various attacks in Brussels and the various services that have not done their job. That is what this is about. That is what the debate is about today. There is talk of Mrs Galant. There are problems at the airport of Zaventem. There are security problems. Then it is said immediately that these questions cannot be dealt with here. Where can these questions be dealt with? In the Deacon Commission. That's very easy. Every time an annoying question is asked, it goes directly to the committee where the traditional parties are going to discuss amongst themselves and where other parties are kept out. That's not how it works. Why can't you do that? Because the people are asking questions. People want these questions to be asked in committee. You're just thinking, we're gonna leave the other group out of it, and we're gonna argue with each other. That's not how it works. We will not be allowed to do so. We'll ask questions. We'll put them out there. We want answers to our questions. We want to know why someone like El Bakraoui just comes back from Syria via Schiphol and just comes in here. How is that possible? Where did that information end up? The people also want to know why millions are being spent placing hundreds of soldiers everywhere on the roads and in all corners of the stations, while everyone knows that this is for nothing. People want to know why they have so much information, but nothing happens to it. Investigators say that they get a lot of information but cannot assess it and that they do not know what to do with it. Today it has been proposed to create three more databases, with millions of data. Where we take the plane and where we drive, we get into a large database, but nobody knows what to do with it. That's what it's about today. We want to ask these questions in committee. Today, however, you will decide that we cannot ask these questions. Well, that's undemocratic! You will certainly not be able to convince the people that no mistakes have been made. I have five minutes left to convince you that we have the right to sit on that committee, but I will not be able to do so, I am sure. Ladies and gentlemen, we have looked at how such debates have taken place in the past. What do I see, ladies and gentlemen of the N-VA? In 1996, Mr Geert Bourgeois, who is now in charge of the Flemish region, tabled an amendment, a really good amendment. Mr Bourgeois found it annoying that he was not allowed to sit on a committee. The N-VA wasn't that big back then. He didn't think that was right. He said that N-VA, then with five political groups, could not be on the committee. What was Geert Bourgeois doing in 1996? He tabled an amendment in order to have the right to sit on that committee. It was a genius idea, Geert! We in the PVDA felt that Geert Bourgeois' amendment was so brilliant that we also wanted to table it. I really liked his logic. We are not yet a big party, but in 2019 we will be bigger. In the meantime, however, we are tabling our first amendment, the Bourgeois amendment, which accepts Mr Bourgeois's arguments. Let me read it to you. What did he say when he was still a bit combative and was part of a small party, I quote: "The creation of committees of inquiry must not result in the right of investigation being kept within a very limited group. Such a thing does not seem democratically justified. Well said, Geert! He felt that every member of the Chamber should not only have the right to attend, but also to participate effectively. That's a politician! That's the point. In 1996, all parties were on that committee of inquiry. What do I hear from the N-VA today? No, we're not going to approve of this. We are now bigger and we want to keep these ambiters out of the Committee of Inquiry. That's not how it works! That is not democratic! That is why we would like to ask Parliament today to grant the Labour Party access to that committee of inquiry in order to ask its questions. In substance, we have the right to ask questions and you're putting us out without being able to say anything! This is not a question of the right to vote, but of the right to speak! We will only have the right to sit down in committee to listen! At present, however, as soon as an important political debate occurs, as with Mrs Galant, the Prime Minister's first reflex is to refer the discussion back to the Committee on the Fight against Terrorism or the Committee on the Brussels bombings, which we will not attend. I take note of the fact that it is Prime Minister Michel who decides what will be discussed in committee! That is not the case, and that is why I would like to ask for an amendment that would allow at least one representative per party to be present here. We do not have to agree with each other, but that is the case in all committees! In this committee of inquiry, which is crucial to what has happened in recent weeks, why should not this democratic right be given to all parties? I hope that individuals from different political groups will support me in the face of this injustice and will vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u164	Mr President, I will not ride on my big horses like Mr Hedebouw, but I would nevertheless like to justify our amendment because it seems important to me. Indeed, we feel a profound injustice when it comes to discussing the problems that have arisen as a result of the attacks in Brussels. There is an urgent need to shed light on all possible dysfunctions in our judicial, security and intelligence services. The statements of your Ministers of the Interior and of Justice in committees, gathered on 25 March, suggested that the responsibilities were individual and not collective, that the budget allocated to these services by the government was sufficient to adequately and optimally respond to the challenge of combating terrorism. The parliamentary committee of inquiry, whose constitution we support, will have to confirm or overturn these statements, in complete objectivity and without any ambiguity, any bias. At the end of the various Conference of Presidents, however, we have found that this proposal intends to exclude my party from the right to participate actively in the parliamentary inquiry, because it does not constitute a political group of at least five Members. The proposal therefore reduces small parties to their most restricted right to parliamentary inquiry, namely to attend the proceedings without being able to take part. It's very frustrating! The Law of 3 May 1880 on Parliamentary Investigations, which provides that "any member of the House shall have the right to attend the inquiry of the commission", however, authorizes the Chamber to adjust the composition of any commission that it may establish. In addition, there are no rules of jurisprudence to exclude certain parties from the proceedings. I attended the Justice Committee on Tuesday and I have to admit that listening to the hate speech of the largest of the four parties so ousted, I can understand the reluctance of both the majority and the opposition to allow this party to take part in the work of the committee of inquiry, as they are unworthy of the objective and serene work which will have to prevail in committee, in memory of the victims of the attacks. I must point out, however, that this exclusion applies to other parties that are democratic. Such exclusion is all the more inappropriate because my party, through its management of fire services and relief services following the 22 March attacks, was directly confronted with the reality of emergencies, victims, deaths, injuries and suffering. As for my colleague Mr Olivier Maingain, no one can deny his unwavering involvement in the Justice and Home Affairs Committees for twenty-five years now. It seems regrettable to me that you have such parliamentary expertise. The amendment that my party is tabling again today is therefore intended to allow small parties to participate in the work of the committee of inquiry, just as it does for the traditional parliamentary committees, i.e. without a deliberative voice. We do not even ask to vote, simply to be able to speak, to ask questions and to be heard. At a time when national unity should make sense, I therefore call on all democratic parties to support our amendment in soul and conscience. You never have to follow your party completely if you want to react differently. Some people will be able to understand our point of view and our desire to participate in this work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u165	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, suppose that a defendant is arraigned by the court and deemed by the prosecution to be sentenced to the most severe punishment. What would the victim of the crime think if the defendant were allowed to assemble the jury himself? Not only the victim, but any legitimate democrat in a democratic rule of law would rightly scream murder and fire. After all, it is not appropriate for a defendant himself to assemble the jury. The jury must be objective and neutral. Certainly in a Parliament where every Member is supposed to have the same rights and duties, it seems logical and obvious to me that every Member of this Parliament should have the opportunity, in any committee, and certainly in a committee of inquiry, to ask the questions he wishes to put on behalf of the electorate he represents. That is ultimately what democracy is all about. There are no first-, second- and third-class MPs. Everyone has the same rights and needs the same opportunities. However, this does not apply to the Committee of Inquiry which is now being set up. Do I make a plea pro domo, for our party, for the Flemish Interest, for my fellow Members or for myself? Is it a plea to admit the PVDA, the PTB or DéFI to that committee? In a way, yes. Above all, it is a plea to ensure that all questions can be asked, that all questions that live in public opinion can be addressed in that committee. That's the essence. The essence is not that my party should be on that committee and that we should be able to get a few words out of it, otherwise we would miss the publicity that such a committee brings with it. The essence is that all the voices of public opinion, whatever their scope, should be heard from the left or right, Maoist, Frenchphone, Belgicist or right Flemish-national, especially on such a sensitive subject as Muslim terrorism, which will ultimately be the subject of discussion in that committee. However, some of these votes will not be heard. We don't know what's going to be covered. We will have to wait for the questions that will be asked. That will depend on the competence, efficiency and political will of those who will be part of that committee. The chairman of the committee himself has a head as former Minister of the Interior in the period prior to the acts of terror and bears political responsibility. It is very much the question to what extent such a person can lead this committee. Mr Dewael, during a trial, a good lawyer might avenge such a juror and say that that person cannot be chairman of this committee as he himself bears responsibility. He might even, who knows, be an accessory. That's what the committee's gonna have to say. Who will chair this committee? It is precisely the former Minister for the Interior, who has taken political decisions in the run-up to the facts, several of which, as my colleague Mrs Pas pointed out, are at least under discussion. And yet, in this temple of democracy, we are doing so as a result of a committee of inquiry which is supposed to cleanse the process of processing in the eyes of the public, in the eyes of the public. Is it then surprising that a number of parties excluded from this committee of inquiry speak of a cover-up committee? Is it so surprising that some of the population already have the impression that a number of questions, but above all a number of other questions, may not be asked in this committee? As I said, we will have to wait for the questions that may be asked, and that will depend on the competence, efficiency and political will of those who are part of the committee. In any case, I know which questions will not be asked. That is why we are endeavouring to present briefly to you some of the questions we would have liked to ask from this gallery. With 42 Syrian fighters per 1 million inhabitants, our country is the Western European country with currently by far the highest percentage of Syrian fighters on our continent. We know that in the meantime 559 Syrian fighters from our country have gone there to fight. The vast majority of them are connected to ISIS or to the al-Nusrafront, called Al Qaeda. In the meantime, 90 of them have been killed. There are 270 criminal investigations in progress and 140 warriors may have returned. Less than half of the returned Syrian fighters are actively followed by our police forces. About 40 are monitored and actively monitored. Meanwhile, a small minority has been persecuted, convicted and imprisoned in prison. The vast majority of them, even today, are still out there in our country. Your servant here has just asked the Minister of Justice how it is possible that such a Syrian warrior, who was suspected and arrested for, in all likelihood, complicitism, has not yet been convicted, so let us wait for two years with an ankle bracelet on his leg. This may restrict his freedom of movement, but at least it does not restrict him in conspiracy and cooperation in acts of terrorism, as it turns out. I note that a total of 80 of those Syrian fighters were recruited by a long-bearded carnival club. Sharia4Belgium was once described by a minister in this chair. About Sharia4Belgium, the former Director-General of State Security, Alain Winants, made a few statements today. In the meantime, Mr Dewael has started walking. I can understand that, but you have to question Mr Winants, no doubt, behind closed doors. He was Director-General of State Security from 2006 to 2014. The directors-general of state security are not always my best friends, but Mr Winants knows how to tell a thing or two. Today, he says in a number of media: "No government has taken radicalisation seriously. I have warned many times about Sharia4Belgium, but I was told by the government that they were clowns with long beards." That's an interesting statement from the big boss of State Security. They were clowns with long beards. And yet Sharia4Belgium managed to recruit more than 80 recruits for the jihad in our country between 2010-2011 and 2014. Sharia4Belgium is worth an interesting case study, on how policy, previous governments and the current government, have dealt with the process of radicalisation, which has led to the recruitment of Muslim terrorists and the attacks in our country and elsewhere in Europe. I know Sharia4Belgium relatively well. I have known our friend Fouad Belkacem, better known by his call name Abu Imran, as leader of Sharia4Belgium to become active in my city, in Antwerp, and before that in Boom. I know the social assistant in Boom who warned, the man wrote a book about it. He warned of the phenomenon Sharia4Belgium and of Mr Belkacem and his troops. He was laughed off and fired as a social assistant. You should certainly invite him to your committee of inquiry and ask him about his experiences, especially his experiences with the way in which the policy reacted to the phenomenon in 2008-2009-2010. Sharia4Belgium was allowed to do anything in Antwerp, wave the flag of Islamic State, protest for the prison in the Begijnenstraat when the Sharia sisters and brothers were temporarily arrested. Sharia4Belgium was allowed to organize dawas on the Meir and De Keyserlei in Antwerp to collect new recruits. It was the socialist mayor of Antwerp, meanwhile manager of SK Genk also he has started walking, which I can understand in his case, and has fled his political responsibilities, who always sued us to do those carnival fools and wondered what we were doing anyway. You, Mr Bonte, who are so high on radicalisation today, if you want to know about radicalisation, ask Mr Patrick Janssens to come to your committee of inquiry. Put him on the roster, Mr. Bonte. You will hear how socialist mayors, who you always complain about, dealt with the radicalisation process in Antwerp. Eighty jihadis have come from my city and from other parts of this country via Sharia4Belgium to Syria and have returned to be the killing machines we experienced in the attacks in Brussels. But it wasn't so bad, it couldn't hurt. You should also ask the investigators who have been working on this in Antwerp: it took until 2014 before Sharia4Belgium was convicted, before 44 defendants were convicted before the court in Antwerp and concluded that Sharia4Belgium was a terrorist organisation. I give you the advice, ladies and gentlemen of the Committee of Inquiry, how many of the 44 convicts were still present in our country at the time of the conviction. That was four. All the rest had meanwhile moved towards Syria, thanks to the incredibly lax tolerance policy of successive governments, including today's. These are some of the subjects I would have liked to have discussed in the Committee of Inquiry. I know that they may not be addressed, because they are politically sensitive, because they are politically incorrect, because they do not fit in with the picture you want to hang up on following the attacks in our country. The next issue I would like to address briefly is the way in which, in the end, the Syrian fighters have been followed and how, in the end, Syria fighters who commute between Syria, Turkey and our country, including notorious terrorists, have not been able to stop at least when they want to re-enter our country. 140 Syrian fighters have returned to our country; some 40 are being monitored. We note that Syrian fighters are active in a particular country. Syria fighters are mostly active in Syria. What is our government doing, however? In particular, it has no contact with the authorities in Syria. Above all, it has no contact with the authorities in Syria. In particular, it does not talk to the intelligence and security services and the army fighting against the Islamic State and the Jabath al-Nusra Front in Syria. On the contrary, we condemn the regime and do not talk to it. We don't exchange any information. We do not have any contact with them and therefore we do not know at all what is going on there with those people, what they are doing, what their intentions are, how many there are in prison and to what extent there is an opportunity to at least cooperate with those on the ground, not in theory or in a committee, against Islamic State. It goes even further than that. The Open Vld Group has now completely disappeared, and I can understand that. Who was ultimately the one who called in 2011, 2012 and 2013 to arm the Syrian resistance? Wasn't that the former great leader of the Open Vld, Guy Verhofstadt? He invited the leader of the Syrian resistance, Mr Idriss, to the European Parliament to meet with it. Did we forget all that? On television, he called for the Syrian resistance to be armed. Did he do that at a time when there was no IS? Not at all! He did so at a time when ISIS was busy putting the so-called legitimate resistance in his pocket in Syria, and physically and militaryly taking it out. Who would the weapons that Mr Verhofstadt so urgently wanted to deliver to the Syrian resistance have all gone to? Are these the same weapons, ladies and gentlemen of Open Vld, which are now being mowed down innocent civilians in the streets of Europe? Is it Mr Verhofstadt's explosives that had to be delivered to the Syrian resistance in 2012 and 2013, which exploded at Brussels airport? I would have liked to have questioned Mr Verhofstadt about this in the Committee of Inquiry. I would have liked to know who he was in contact with in Syria, to whom he was all willing to supply those weapons, how far those contacts went from Mr Verhofstadt. That, too, will probably be an issue that will not be addressed in this committee of inquiry. Then we could ask Mr Moureaux and a few others from the PS Group, mayors of Brussels. I would like to know what their relationship is with radical Salafist organizations and movements in this country. I would like to know the relationship of a number of ministers here in this Chamber and certainly of ministers of the past with the regime in Saudi Arabia, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates. I would very much have liked to invite Mr Reynders to the Committee of Inquiry to hear what he thinks of those regimes behind the scenes that support the Muslim terrorism of Al-Qaeda, the Al-Nusrafront and related people and what are the links between the Belgian government and such regimes that actively support terrorism with money and resources. However, I do not think that Minister Reynders will be put on the agenda in this committee either. I would also have liked to have heard the successive ministers responsible for immigration in this country in the Committee of Inquiry to know what their position is on unbridled immigration, asylum flows, migration invasion into our country, which has allowed us to have almost 500 000 Muslims on our territory, of which we know that at least one in three, as is the case in the Muslim world, is salafism, wahabism or jihadism, and what has been done in the past to combat these more than 150 radicalized mosques. What has been done to counter all those hate preachers that we have seen here for years, up to and including the great leader of Sharia4UK, Mr Choudary? When we claimed this in a cultural centre of the city of Antwerp, Mr Janssens, your socialist mayor, he wondered what we were doing, and said that there was freedom of expression, also for Mr Choudary, the great leader of Sharia4UK, who was allowed to recruit for the jihad three times in a year in Antwerp. But there wasn't any dirt in the air. We in the Committee of Inquiry might also be able to ask a number of pertinent questions about this. Ladies and gentlemen, my half hour is almost over. So you are almost rid of the difficult and annoying politically correct and incorrect questions and of the invitations to politicians here in the Chamber and elsewhere to get their hands on their own for the Committee of Inquiry instead of referring the blame to one or other official or to some liaison officer somewhere far away at an embassy in Turkey. That will happen; I will give it to you on a leaf. Put your hand into your own bosom, instead of having some director of a security service resign and then go back to the order of the day. Ladies and gentlemen, the enemy is within the walls. The gates are still wide open. The essence of the whole story is that the Committee of Inquiry will confine itself to cutting the branches of the tree. The Committee of Inquiry will confine itself to endless questioning, hearings to infinity on the details of the whole issue, on who, what, where and at what time which document has passed to which service and on how it is that a particular document has not been included in a particular database. You know the whole story. The fish are drowning, noyer le poisson, for our French-speaking friends, it will end up drowning. About the essence, namely the link, the essential, obvious link, it will not go. The only ones who don't know yet are the Members of Parliament. In the meantime, the people already know. You will see that during the forthcoming elections. The people know what you do not know, namely that the link is a link between terrorism and mass immigration. Without mass immigration, these hundreds of thousands of Muslims had never entered our country's territory. Without those Muslims on the territory of our country, there was no radicalisation, no Islam radicalism, no salafism, no wahabism, no jihadism. Ladies and gentlemen, without this radicalisation, there were no terrorist organisations that could have settled in that Islam community for years, which took root within the umma. In the end, they are not doing what they started yesterday, but what they are doing from day one of the mass immigration of non-European Muslims to our country. It is about the link between terror and Islam, about the link between terror and immigration, about the link between terror and the flow of asylum. At least 5 to 6 of the 13 terrorists of the attacks in Paris and Brussels did not enter and leave our country once or twice, through the asylum flow, to exchange information, to exchange documents, to get instructions and to return, to recruit here and return to Syria and vice versa. We have covered all this with the cloak of love. Why did you cover it with the cloak of love? You still believe in that multicultural project. The terrorist attacks are the most obvious proof that the multiculture does not work, is not a harmonious and inclusive story but has become a story of hard confrontation, now also with violence, between cultures and civilizations that are not compatible and will never be compatible. Ladies and gentlemen, therefore, I wish you every success with your committee of inquiry, a committee of inquiry which will become a cover-up committee, the largest, most misguided cover-up committee this country will ever have known. Your silence during this debate is, of course, self-evident. There is a multicultural, multicultural conspiracy between the traditional parties, there is a multicultural conspiracy between CD&V, cdH, N-VA, sp.a, PS, PRL and VLD that cannot, will not and cannot be touched at the basis of the problem. That is why I wish you every success with your cover-up committee, which will, above all, cover up what should not be talked about. We will talk, not in committee but in the street, not in this Parliament but with the man in the street who knows much better than you all together what it is really about.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u166	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u167	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1752/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1752/1) The proposal contains 8 articles. The proposal has 8 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u168	• 3 - Véronique Caprasse cs (1752/2)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u169	• 4 - Raoul Hedebouw (1752/2) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the Rule that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u170	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Article 5.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u171	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 4, 6 to 8.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u172	Collega's, as far as the order of business is concerned, I have contacted the Prime Minister's office. At this time, the Prime Minister is not available. On the other hand, I note, like you, that on social media, I find what Mr Calvo said, but I also find the denial there. So I find the facts, but also the denial of the facts. That leads me personally to the conclusion that perhaps some caution is needed. Last point. I suggest that you convene the Infrastructure Committee tomorrow for a meeting with Minister Galant. As for this order motion, I suggest that we decide together. Moreover, it is up to the plenary to decide on this. Mr Nollet, you have the floor. Then Mr. Vande Lanotte.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u173	Mr. President, I hear what you're saying. It's 9:20. We had a debate this afternoon in the presence of the Prime Minister. I think the Prime Minister has come here to realize the importance and seriousness of the moment, the importance and the seriousness of the issue. And today we are told that the Prime Minister is not in a position to join the House. Much has already been done in this House, including almost similar situations. I remember Mr. Leterme. Mr. President, it was Mr. Van Rompuy who was there, in your place. I remember that at that time, the prime ministers had more awareness or respect for the institution. Either, the Prime Minister probably has to prepare the line of defence and, for that, he probably needs time. He has to build the following truth to better camouflage the previous lie. Mr President, we cannot accept it and your proposal to say "No, it will not be the Prime Minister but Minister Galant who will come and explain himself" is no longer on the road! Who here still trusts the words of Minister Galant? Who today? If this government still wants to show that it is in a position to manage the country, it is the Prime Minister who must come to parliament. Today or tomorrow! But the Prime Minister is being questioned. Mr. Chairman, we have a new document for you. This is the document that Galant received officially. You will see that this is about the European Commission and the European Commission's conclusions on the security situation at Zaventem airport. Let us never forget that, behind all this, it is about the safety and security of Belgian and foreign citizens who visit our national airport! Mr President, earlier in this rostrum, the Prime Minister said – I rely on the record of what he said – that he was not informed until he was informed by the press. But Minister Galant received this note. She knew! We don't need to hear it anymore. We know what she got. We need to hear from the Prime Minister. This is our request and we are keeping it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u174	Mr President, the document referred to by Mr Nollet is on the website of La Libre Belgique. Anyone can see it. It's very clear. Minister Galant now admits that she did not receive the report herself, just a summary. I've rarely heard such a lame explanation. You may not feel ridiculed by that. I do. The Minister says: I didn't get it, I just got a summary. If the Minister gets such a summary, you should read them and not ask for the report, it is worse than if she says she didn't get it. If one gets such a report and one does not bother to get the report as a whole, it means that one is comfortable with it. I can't imagine people doing that. I understand that the majority here is trying to protect something. First of all, it's not normal for only Mrs. Galant to come here tomorrow. That's not normal. The Prime Minister came today. You were right to do that. Once again, if the Prime Minister is in good faith and I have no elements to say that he is not, he has been lied to by his minister. Then the two have to come to the committee. Members of the majority may draw their own political conclusions, but one cannot ignore the fact that Mrs Galant has become a dead weight as a result of the affair. If Prime Minister Michel hesitates for a long time, he will suffer the same fate and be only a prime minister who defends the mistakes of others. Do we want the Prime Minister of our country, with many problems, to be weakened because they want to defend a minister? I don't think that's wise. However, that is the case now. A prime minister who will have to admit that he was lied to by his own minister and pretending nothing is going on, doesn't he lose his authority? Again, I don't blame the Prime Minister for what he said here. He probably made those statements in good faith, but they turn out to be totally wrong. It is no longer even important whether he has consciously or unconsciously done so. A minister like Mrs. Galant who's under fire, who's in trouble, has to figure out what came in, right? Can't afford to pretend she didn't know, like she didn't see that report? That's impossible, isn't it? There have been very dramatic moments here and we have called for unity, but we have to admit that a minister who receives a summary of four pages of a report does not request that report. If the motion is not approved today, then it is a pity, but it cannot be accepted that only the Minister will be here tomorrow. You can't do that, can you? Then the Prime Minister, whom I, as a member of the opposition, assume was in good faith, is made a fool of here, right? That's not a normal way to work, is it? Be correct and let the two ministers come. Let them explain and draw your conclusions, but do not pretend to be able to escape. I address myself to the majority. You are structurally weakening the position of your Prime Minister and your Government, and that is of no use to anyone, not even the opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u175	Mr President, I have not been in this House for a long time and I would like to know how the contacts between the House services and the Prime Minister's office are going. What happens when they are told that it is not available? He's not coming and it ends there? That's convenient! Let's be serious! Parliament asked the Prime Minister to come and explain lies that had been made and the only justification for his absence was that he was not available. He's not at any summit. He's in Belgium. Colleagues, we have the right to request the presence of the Prime Minister. And since we have this right, will there be button presses at the level of the majority to endorse the Prime Minister's absence or will they have a little honor in asking us to exercise this right?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u176	Mr Hedebouw, allow me to say the following. It is indeed one of the usual shifts in our work that Parliament is asking for the availability of the Prime Minister or any other minister. That's the usual way of doing things. You can't imagine me looking in person, can you? That's not how we do it here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u177	I can hear you, about the work. Basically, if I understand correctly, there is no problem with the Rules of Procedure coming to lie quietly to Parliament. This is accepted, because we were willing to lie. But on the other hand, to come to tell the truth, there we are no longer available.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u178	Sir, I do not accept that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u179	It would be better to accept them!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u180	You're using the word "sense" too easily. I ask you to take a decision on the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u181	Earlier, colleagues wanted to ask questions to Mrs Galant. I have a few nuances about what my predecessor has just said here. But it is very clear that there was an agreement between the Prime Minister and Mrs Galant, so that she would not speak in Parliament today. Why? Because then Mrs. Galant should have taken the microphone to make it clear to everyone: "I didn't get anything." It is clearly in order to be able to work in two stages that today the Prime Minister has come to communicate directly here to Parliament. When my colleague and Comrade Marco Van Hees asked, "Did you receive anything?", Mrs Galant clearly said, "I didn't get anything," with a head like that. I don't know how we do it in the House reports, but it would be better to put it in parentheses: "Ms. Galant did it like that." [[He's "no" to the head.]] [[.]] His line of defense is now to say that she did not receive the document but only a summary, we have to do it! Mr Vande Lanotte is quite right about this. I ask you to call Ms Galant and the Prime Minister again this evening to give their explanations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u182	Mr Hedebouw, I can only tell you that this is the subject of the motion I have with me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u183	Mr President, if it was not possible to extend the plenary session with the ministers concerned, I have proposed to organise a joint committee on Infrastructure and the Interior with them, namely the Prime Minister and Mrs Galant. I would like to recall what I said earlier. He always worked on the leader when I was talking. I noted that he was very cautious when he responded and said that he had not covered his minister. This has been decoded by our assembly. In addition, he demanded that all clarity be made. That is why I ask him to do it with us tomorrow, in view of all the documents that are constantly coming to us. It's not a way to work. The documents must be distributed to everyone so that we can hold this meeting calmly tomorrow with the Prime Minister and Ms. Galant in order to get answers to questions about airport safety. That's what I offered you earlier. I therefore reiterate my request. I would point out that this is the safety of the airport and that it is an essential economic tool for our country and for Brussels. This is not the time to laugh, but to take this matter seriously, Mr President!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u184	Mr. Speaker, as Speaker of the House, you now propose that we postpone the matter until tomorrow, until later. It is your responsibility, but we understand that the majority as a whole is holding the same speech, accepting and validating your position. The conclusion of this day's event, after receiving the documents that arrived at us, is that Minister Galant was aware of it. According to a first hypothesis, given what the Prime Minister – supported by the whole majority – told us in this House, Minister Galant would not have told him the truth or, rather, would have told him lies! The second assumption was that the Prime Minister was aware of the situation. Personally, I tend to believe that the Prime Minister was honest when he spoke to us earlier. From then on, Mrs. Galant would have told him some bullshit and kept the truth from him. Colleagues, if you cover this, if you say that we are going to hear Minister Galant again one more time, it is that you still trust him despite all the boobards in the press or the Prime Minister, if you cover her, it is indirectly the Prime Minister who bears the responsibility for these boobards and untruths. You are making a proposal, Mr President: refer this to tomorrow and to an umpteenth debate with Minister Galant. The Prime Minister doesn't want or can't come tonight. I'm making an alternative proposal. I will accept that we will do this tomorrow; we will not send MPs anyway to pick up the Prime Minister even if he is on Ducale Street. If we refer this back to tomorrow, we ask that the Prime Minister be present, even if it is in committee. We have all understood that holding this debate with Minister Galant is no longer useful. To weaken in such a way a prime minister, on the part of a majority, when these are such serious topics as airport security and after all that has happened in connection with terrorism, is a completely irresponsible attitude on your part and on the part of the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u185	Mr President, the Galant problem is becoming a Michel problem and with the proposal you are putting forward, it will also be a problem for Mr Bracke, because I do not really think your proposal as President of the Chamber is serious. We ask from the opposition to hear the Prime Minister today, and you say we can question Minister Jaqueline Galant tomorrow. That is far from sufficient. Then you say that the information available to the Ecolo Green Opposition is also contradicted. Well, the latest intel is crystal clear. The Prime Minister said here this afternoon that the 2015 report, the information on this European audit, was not delivered to the cabinet. Mr President, we have a document of 23 June 2015 to the Minister's cabinet on this European audit.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u186	Mr. Calvo...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u187	If you, as President-in-Office of the Council, say that there are doubts, perhaps the Minister has told the truth, you almost seem to be suggesting...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u188	No, Mr. Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u189	That's not right. That debate must not drag on. As President of the Chamber, I think you should accept your responsibility. You can't just suggest that we go to sleep and wait until tomorrow, and if the Prime Minister has a desire to come by tomorrow, it's fine. No, the Prime Minister must be here right now to answer. In the meantime, it's also his problem. You must tell him that, as President of the Chamber, on behalf of all of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u190	I do not feel at all addressed in this regard, Mr Calvo. I give the floor to Mr Ducarme.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u191	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u192	Mr President, if Mr Calvo wants to finish, I have no objection.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u193	Mr Ducrame, I have asked you to speak!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u194	Mr President, I am somewhat surprised by the successive events... (...): We too! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u195	My surprise comes from the fact that this whole afternoon, we've been suspended from emails. We have been confronted – you were talking about documents revealed – with the appearance of such an e-mail, such an article on a press site and we have constantly interrupted the agenda to discuss this issue based on such e-mail or denial. This is a bit unrealistic, especially since we had on the agenda a package of anti-terrorism proposals and no less than the setting up of the committee of inquiry into the attacks, which, quite simply, went into the background. I regret that, and indeed I think it is rather surreal. I would like to make a number of clarifications. I will not go back to Mrs Fonck's MPs, to the bullshit, to the lies, in short, to the terms that are becoming, in this House, usual, recurrent, and it is sad to hear at this point words such as those that are coming out more and more easily from the mouth of parliamentarians. You can't tell stories all the time. The Prime Minister's answer to questions about airport security was because they were addressed to him. All he did was fulfill his role. He answered the questions that parliamentarians had chosen to ask him and he did so on the basis of the information at his disposal. We support the proposal to have a committee meet tomorrow afternoon with Minister Galant so that she may have the right to respond to a number of unwarranted accusations that you have laid all day long. Minister Galant will be in this committee tomorrow to answer questions from all the groups. And if, for some, this is not enough, we can consider other committees with other actors, probably the Prime Minister. We support the proposal which is fairly close to the one which was put forward to hold a committee tomorrow with the minister responsible for the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u196	Mr President, as Mr Ducrame has said, it is indeed surreal. It's surreal, but not for the reasons you're calling for. The Prime Minister, in my opinion in good faith, I repeat, said that he was informed of this report yesterday by the press. The report was sent to two officials with a security certificate without reaching the firm. That's what the Prime Minister said, five to six hours ago. Now it's no longer about e-mails or anything. We realize that our entire country can see, on the newspapers' websites, the report that was sent in June 2015. That is the content of the report. I hope that tomorrow we will not say – because we still have to measure the importance of the situation – that we have not received the report but only a summary. If the defense intends to rely on this, it is shameful! The content here says that there are serious problems. Can one imagine a minister who receives such a report but does not ask to receive the full report? If this has not been requested, it already says everything! I'd like to repeat that we're not just here for a trifle. We are faced with a situation in which the Prime Minister has somehow been misinformed by his own Minister, not to say deceived. The Prime Minister is put in trouble by his own minister. Parliament is being dragged into this. Parliament is not properly informed. They say they'll look into it tomorrow. That's not serious. Yes, they always try out the Prime Minister's availability. But this is something that rises above normal. Then the Prime Minister should try to be available. That's the logic itself, isn't it? At least they both have to be here tomorrow, not one of them. But dear people, this is not just a trifle. The Prime Minister says about the security of a place where an attack took place that he did not know until yesterday, while the Minister received a summary report more than a year ago indicating where there are major problems. Then say nothing to know, that can't be allowed. Mr President, please try again to explain to the Prime Minister that it is better for his credibility to be here. Even though I am a member of the opposition and I do not have the same ideas as he does in his government, it is no good for anyone that the prime minister of a country loses credibility because a minister of his government misinformed him. Neither the opposition, nor the population, nor the government has any use for that. That's no good to anyone. It is not good for the Prime Minister's credibility to postpone this. If one does that, it may be done to protect and prepare him, but now is not the time. That could have been prepared for the questions this afternoon. Apparently, Mrs Galant didn't do that very carefully. Then we must draw the conclusions from that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u197	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we vote on the proposals on the table. First of all, there is the procedural motion for applying Rule 54 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u198	Mr President, you were going to propose a vote. We see that the majority wants to force the vote. As Speaker of the House, you are the representative of all parliamentarians and not just the majority in a small game she plays. [[Applause]] Earlier, there was mention of the possibility of meeting in the Conference of Presidents to properly organize the work of the House. You didn't accept it at that time and you said we'd see later. Current issues have come to an end. Now you want to force a vote on behalf of the majority. I ask for an interruption of the meeting in order to hold a Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u199	Mrs Fonck, you know very well that if there is no consensus in the Conference of Presidents, it is the plenary meeting that decides. So what we're gonna do now is...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u200	It is not known whether there will be any consensus in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u201	We shall immediately seek the opinion of the plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u202	Mr President, there was obviously no agreement in the Conference of Presidents since it did not take place. I ask you to hold one to agree with us and if we do not, you will have the opportunity to validate it (or not) by a vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u203	We have not decided to organise a Conference of Presidents, in agreement with Mr Nollet. We talked about it. We said that at the end of the plenary session and after the setting up of the Committee of Inquiry, we could perhaps convene a Conference of Presidents. That is the decision; I insist on applying the Rules. I shall put the order motion to the vote in a moment. You will first have the floor, Mr Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u204	Mr President, we're either a little tired, or you want to force something you can't force. I join my colleague Catherine Fonck's request and explain myself. When several group leaders – and I suppose we are not the only ones – call for a meeting of the Conference of Presidents, you have to accept this request – your services will confirm this. I have before me an excerpt from the record of the sitting of 17 December 2008, chaired by Mr. Van Rompuy: "Incident Yves Leterme," you will remember. At one point, different group leaders ask for a break in the work to convene a Conference of Presidents. There was no motion. What does your predecessor, Mr. President, say? "When several group leaders request a suspension, the suspension is automatically accepted. I propose a 30-minute session suspension.", dixit Herman Van Rompuy. Democracy has its rights, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u205	Of course, we're applying the rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u206	Several group leaders requested a suspension of the meeting and a meeting of a Conference of Presidents. Ask for the precedents, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u207	We find precedents for everything!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u208	Find me a reverse precedent!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u209	Mr Nollet, I do not think that the Conference of Presidents would succeed in reaching an agreement on what we are discussing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u210	Mr President, you cannot prejudge.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u211	I repeat my proposal: we would have tomorrow afternoon...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u212	No!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u213	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u214	...a meeting of the Infrastructure Committee. I would urge the Prime Minister to be present as well. I put the order motion to the vote to summon the Prime Minister immediately. We are voting on the order motion when sitting and getting up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u215	I refuse to convene a Conference of Presidents. That doesn't make any sense. Let those who support the point of order rise.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u216	The order motion has been rejected. Consequently, I propose that we organise an effective meeting tomorrow afternoon to allow the Prime Minister to attend. I will give it to you: I will ask him to be present at that committee meeting both orally and in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u217	Mr President,...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u218	Mr Calvo, the work is done.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u219	(...)!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u220	Mr Calvo, I call you to order for the first time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u221	The next item is the debate on the request for prosecution by Mr Alain Mathot. The next item is the debate on Mr Alain Mathot's application for leave to prosecute. I would remind you that only the rapporteur, the Member concerned or a Member representing him, and one speaker in favour and one speaker against (Rule 4 of the Rules of Procedure) can speak. Paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure). May I remind you that only the rapporteur, the member concerned or a representative, a speaker in favour and a speaker against may speak (art. 160, § 3 of the Regulation). I call Mr Hendrik Vuye, rapporteur. The rapporteur, Mr Hendrik Vuye, has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u222	Colleagues, in an effort to soften morale, I will report on the work of the Commission for the Persecutions. This is a legal act which, normally, should transcend party political interests. In view of the fact that it is a legal act, I will also do the legal part of the report in French, out of respect for our colleague who is of the French language role. By letter dated 16 March 2015, the Attorney General of Liège requested that the parliamentary immunity of our colleague Alain Mathot be lifted. That letter was included in the report. The facts relate to suspected irregularities in the award of a public contract by the intercommunal association for waste disposal of Liège and its surroundings, Intradel. That was in order to build a new incinerator. The charges in that letter are forgery in writing, forming a criminal organisation, corruption, money laundering, abuse of corporate property, scams, public auctions and tax fraud. By letter dated 21 October 2015, i.e. several months later, the Attorney General delivered the full file to the Chamber. The Commission for the Persecutions hasn't gone ice in one night. It met on 21 April, 21 May, 11 June, 25 June, 29 October, 26 November, 3 December, 27 January, 28 January, 17 February, 3 March, 10 March and 17 March. In total, these are 13 meetings. Mr Mathot and his lawyers were heard on 26 November 2015. Mr. Attorney General De Valkeneer and the substitutes Paul Catrice and Laurent De Smedt were heard on 27 January. Mr Mathot and his lawyers were again heard on 17 February 2016. I'm getting to the part in law now. Colleagues, you were able to read in the press that Mr Mathot and his lawyers were heard five times and the Attorney General only once. This information is clearly inaccurate. Mr Mathot's and Mr Mathot's lawyers were heard twice: as it should be, once before the Attorney General and a second time after the Attorney General's hearing. In the press, you were also able to read that the Attorney General complains that there was no adversarial debate. There was no adversarial debate and the committee discussed it. It considered that such a debate was not part of the mandate given to the House by article 59 of the Constitution. This issue was also decided in this Assembly during the vote on the law and the special law of 25 June 1998 regulating the criminal liability of ministers. This is a law implementing article 103 of the Constitution, article 103 being the counterpart of article 59, but for ministers. The legis ratio is the same. Article 12 states in the last sentence of § 2: "In no case may an adversarial debate take place". This provision is the result of a government amendment adopted by the Assembly. This includes a special law, with a two-thirds majority and a majority in each language group. In the excellent report drawn up by Messrs. Servais Verherstraeten and Didier Reynders, the reason for the amendment is as follows: "The Prime Minister recalls that the House, according to settled case law, has never held contradictory debates. By including it in the amendment, we want to prevent the House from playing the role of a consulting chamber, where the adversarial debate takes place." A few pages later, in the same report, we can read another speech by the Prime Minister: "The government's amendment aims to translate the House's jurisprudence on this matter into this proposal. We want to limit the procedure to the hearing of the interested parties, so that the Chamber can act as a filter and does not play any role of jurisdiction." There are two elements of the cited text. First, an adversarial debate is not part of the mandate given to the House by rule 59. Second, the Chamber is not a court and organizing an adversarial debate would be contrary to the principle of separation of powers. I therefore hope that I have responded to the remarks made by the Attorney-General of Liège. As far as the substance is concerned, I would first like to recall the principles underlying Article 59. First, immunities do not protect the person of the parliamentarian. Second principle, immunities are granted to ensure the proper functioning of the Assembly. Thirdly, immunities are of public order and therefore parliamentarians cannot forsake them. Fourth principle, the House does not rule on the guilt or innocence of the Member. This is a particularly important principle in this case. Fifth principle, which is also of great importance in this case, the Chamber is neither a trial court nor an investigating court. The final principle is that the House is limited to marginal control without interfering in the proceedings to be held before the Chamber of Council. As far as the application of these principles is concerned, in the past, our Assembly has already found that the preparatory work for article 59 of the Constitution does not contain any clarification as to the extent of the scope of marginal control. In committee, two trends emerged regarding the scope of marginal control. Two members felt that marginal control should be limited to control of the facts. This means that the House must ensure that the action is not based on prima facie elements that are fanciful, unlawful, prescribed, arbitrary or tenuous. In this first interpretation, marginal control remains limited to a review of the facts which are submitted by the Attorney General to our assembly. On the other hand, five members considered that the marginal control concerned the facts submitted by the Attorney General but also the investigation which had been carried out. In this interpretation, the marginal control also covers the conditions under which the investigation was conducted. According to this second interpretation, the Chamber must verify - albeit marginally - two elements: first, whether the Attorney General's request is sufficiently substantiated and, second, whether the investigation is not purely and simply based on political grounds. Two members of the Prosecution Committee voted in favour of the lifting of parliamentary immunity. This means that they adhere to a more restrictive interpretation of the concept of marginal control. They consider that the case file contains sufficient evidence to justify its examination by a trial judge with a view, according to that reading, not to hinder the course of justice. The same two members considered that certain remarks could be made to the prosecutor's office, but that they were not such as to constitute an obstacle to the consideration of the case on the merits by the judge. Five members, on the other hand, voted in favour of the non-relevation of immunity. They are in favour of a broader or more modern interpretation of the concept of marginal control. The members wondered whether the prosecution would have treated a similar case in the same way if it had not been a politician. There are several factors that lead them to question themselves. 1. the manner in which Mr. Mathot's case of repression was drawn up and investigated; 2. the fact that the investigation was carried out primarily by Mr. Mathot; 3. the chronological progress of the training and its long duration; 4. the numerous leaks in the press at crucial times and the complaints lodged by Mr. Mathot, which have always remained unanswered; 5. Members question a possible violation of article 59 of the Constitution. They believe that the numerous leaks in the press, which have almost always occurred at politically crucial times for our colleague, can only be explained by the systematic desire to harm him. The Prosecutor's Office does not take sufficient action against clear, manifest and repeated violations of the secrecy of the investigation. Leaks in the press clearly do not meet the standards that education must satisfy in a modern democracy. The five members considered that the foregoing list showed that the Prosecutor's Office had not sufficiently substantiated its case and created an impression of bias towards a member of the House of Representatives, which was also contrary to the interests of the parliamentary institution itself. I shall now read out the conclusions of your committee: "Having regard to the request of the Attorney General to the Court of Appeal of Liège, having regard to Article 59 of the Constitution, having regard to the above general principles, considering that parliamentary immunity is intended to preserve the interests and to ensure the proper functioning of the parliamentary institution, in this case the House of Representatives, and not the interests of each individual parliamentarian, considering, however, that it is in the interests of a parliamentary institution that judicial investigations by individual parliamentarians, in particular since the revision of Article 59 of the Constitution, may be carried out as judicial investigations by any other citizen, i.e. with the necessary guarantees concerning the independence and impartiality of the judicial authorities, the secrecy of the investigation, respect for the rules of procedure, prosecution and defence, etc. Considerations. In the light of the above and after having examined the case and heard the Public Prosecutor's Office and the defence, the Commission found that: (i) that Mr Mathot's criminal case was initiated following an anonymous letter and formed on the basis of the statements of a single person, the credibility of which was not sufficiently examined; 2° that the investigation carried out was essentially dependent on Mr Mathot and not on his discharge, 3. that the chronological course of the investigation, of which it is possible to increase the length, raises certain questions concerning in principle the fact that the important duties and phases of this instruction coincided with moments of political interest: a search of Mr. Mathot's home during a period of parliamentary dissolution and, therefore, during the preparation of the electoral lists for the 2010 federal elections, the indictment of Mr. Mathot at the time of the formation of the government in 2011 and the drafting of the indictment against Mr. Mathot at the time of the preparation of the electoral lists for the 2014 federal elections; 4° that the important stages of the investigation have often coincided with leaks in the press, which prompted Mr. Mathot to file several complaints with the civil party of the charge of violation of investigation and professional secrecy, since so far complaints have not been dealt with; 5) that it is not absolutely clear that Article 59 of the Constitution has been respected or violated, in so far as this Article provides for a special procedure for parliamentarians subject to binding measures in the context of an investigation – in this case it is the examination of the telephone traffic of the person concerned. Considering in particular the interest of the parliamentary institution, it is clear from all these findings that it is premature to refer the case to the trial judge if necessary. Considering that the failure to lift parliamentary immunity does not necessarily mean that there has been an obstacle in the course of justice, the Prosecutor's Office may proceed with its investigation and subsequently file a new request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity with the Chamber. This last sentence is important, and I quote: 'A non-elimination of parliamentary immunity does not have to mean obstruction of justice. The public prosecutor may continue his investigation and, if he so wishes, may make a further request to the Chamber of Representatives. Tot besluit, the committee proposes, by 5 votes to 2, not to accede to the request for the waiver of the immunity of our colleague, Mr Alain Mathot.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u223	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. The committee's decision is as follows: Having regard to the request made by the Attorney General to the Liège Appeals Court; Having regard to Article 59 (1) of the Constitution; Whereas the general principles referred to above; Having regard to the opinion of the rapporteur; The committee proposes, by 5 to 2 votes, that the request for the waiver of Mr Alain Mathot's parliamentary immunity be rejected. The Commission's conclusion is as follows: Having regard to the application of the Attorney General to the Court of Appeal of Liège; Having regard to article 59, paragraph 1, of the Constitution; Having regard to the general principles referred to above; Having regard to the recitals read by the rapporteur; The committee proposed, by 5 votes to 2, that the request for the waiver of Mr Alain Mathot's parliamentary immunity should not be granted. I put the committee's decision to the vote. I shall put to the vote the conclusion of the committee. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 81 Yes No. 49 No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 138 Total Accordingly, the Chamber shall adopt the decision. Accordingly, the Board adopts the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u224	Mr President, would you please withdraw Mr Foret's vote? I was sitting in his place.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u225	Of which act.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u226	Mr President, I would like briefly to justify my group's abstention in the vote. The explanation is quite simple and I would like to remind her. My group is not represented in the Prosecution Committee. My group has therefore not heard the views of the Attorney-General's Office, the lawyers and the persons concerned. My group has not been able to verify in concrete terms the way in which the investigation took place, and this is particularly important in so far as the committee finally adopted the second thesis, the maximalist thesis, as Mr Vuye said. "Modern thesis," he added. Since we were moving in this direction towards an extensive interpretation of the checks, we were particularly destitute. We also found that the Prosecution Committee was not unanimous in its conclusions. In other words, it was very difficult to position oneself in such a situation. That is why we abstained. I would add, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that we will shortly table on the floor of our House a proposal to amend the Rules of the House. The purpose of this proposal is to amend the Prosecution Committee and to ensure that its composition is modelled on that of the Bureau of the House or that of the Conference of Presidents. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u227	Mr President, the report adopted unanimously in committee refers to the fact that it is clear from the committee's settled case-law that it examines the facts and that this examination is limited to marginal scrutiny. Furthermore, it recalls, and this has also been done in the rostrum, that the possible waiver of immunity is not a conviction and that it allows the work of justice to continue. A majority of the committee decided not to follow this yet constant case law and to interpret its power in a broader sense. Without being able to decide on the substance of the case, on the choice to be made as to the waiver of immunity in the present case, we are, however, certain that we cannot accept such a fundamental reversal of case law without a prior and in-depth debate of principle, detached from the substance of the present case. It is a matter of respect for the balance of powers and, consequently, of the principles of our Constitution. If, after the conclusion of such a major debate, such a reversal were to be necessary, it would involve at least a revision of the working methods of the committee, in particular as regards the more contradictory nature of the debates to be conducted and its composition. Our group has therefore voted against the conclusions of the report with the aim of asking the committee to resume its work in accordance with its case-law, which has hitherto been constant, and to return to it on this basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u228	In accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents of 16 March 2016, all candidates for the mandates of the member of the Federal Deontological Commission were appointed to allow them to qualify for another category if they meet the conditions and provide proof thereof. In accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents of 16 March 2016, all candidates for the terms of office of a member of the Federal Commission of Ethics received a letter offering them the opportunity to submit their candidature for another category to the extent that they meet the required conditions and can provide proof of this. The following candidates submitted their applications for another category: - Mr Danny Pieters, in addition to his candidacy for the category "former members of the Chamber and/or Senate," applied for the category "magistrate or professor"; - Mr Melchior Wathelet, in addition to his candidacy for the category "former members of the Chamber and/or Senate," applied to the categories "magistrate or professor" and "former managers." The following candidates applied for another category: - Mr. Danny Pieters introduced, in addition to his candidacy for the category "former member of the House and/or Senate", his candidacy for the category "magistrate or professor"; - Mr. Melchior Wathelet introduced, in addition to his candidacy for the category "former member of the House and/or Senate", his candidacy for the categories "magistrate or professor" and "former representatives". In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 13 April 2016, I propose that Mr Werner Coudyzer's candidacy be declared admissible and that the candidates' CVs be sent to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 13 April 2016, I propose that you declare Mr Werner Coudyzer's candidacy admissible and send the curriculum vitae of the candidates to the political groups. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u229	At the request of the applicant, I propose the legislative proposal (Mr Veli Yüksel) introducing the requirement of parental consent for minors travelling alone outside the Schengen area, No. 1234/1, refer to the Temporary Committee on Counter-Terrorism. At the author's request, I propose that you refer to the Temporary Committee on the Fight against Terrorism, the bill (Mr Veli Yüksel) introducing the requirement for parental authorisation for minors travelling alone outside the Schengen area, No. 1234/1. This bill was previously sent to the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration. This proposal had previously been referred to the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u230	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 13 April 2016, I also propose to you the proposal (Mrs Catherine Fonck and Mr Georges Dallemagne) to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to examine the information available to the researchers before the attacks in Paris and the way in which that information was handled, no. 1742/1, to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u231	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 13 April 2016, I also propose that you take into account the proposal (Mrs Catherine Fonck and Mr Georges Dallemagne) to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to investigate the information available to investigators prior to the Paris attacks and how they were dealt with, No. 1742/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u232	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I also suggest that you consider: - the motion for a resolution (Mr Elio Di Rupo and Mr André Frédéric and Mrs Laurette Onkelinx) on the recognition and regulation of the practice of osteopathy, No. 1757/1. - the legislative proposal (Mrs Fabienne Winckel, Mr André Frédéric, Ms Özlem Özen, Mr Daniel Senesael, Ms Karine Lalieux and Mr Alain Mathot) amending the coordinated law of 10 May 2015 on the exercise of health care professions, so that recognised institutions may proceed to provide emergency contraceptives that do not pose a health risk, No. 1759/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u233	- the proposal for a resolution (Mr Philippe Blanchart, Mr Jean-Marc Delizée, Mr Eric Massin and Mr Frédéric Daerden) requesting the Council of the European Union to continue examining the European Directive on the application of the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation, No. 1758/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u234	I also propose that you take into account: - the motion for a resolution (MM. Elio Di Rupo and André Frédéric and Mrs Laurette Onkelinx) to recognise and guide the practice of osteopathy, No. 1757/1. - the proposal for a law (Ms Fabienne Winckel, Mr André Frédéric, Ms Özlem Özen, Mr Daniel Senesael, Ms Karine Lalieux and Mr Alain Mathot) amending the coordinated laws of 10 May 2015 relating to the exercise of the health care professions, in order to allow the distribution of emergency contraceptives which are not likely to pose a danger to health by approved bodies, No 1759/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u235	- the motion for a resolution (MM. Philippe Blanchart, Jean-Marc Delizée, Eric Massin and Frédéric Daerden) to request the Council of the European Union to continue examining the European Directive on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of religion, belief, disability, age or sexual orientation, No 1758/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u236	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u237	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law amending the Law of 15 December 1980 on entry into the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreign nationals (No. 1730/01). The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill amending the Act of 15 December 1980 on the entry, stay, establishment and removal of aliens (No. 1730/1) was tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u238	Mr President, there was an urgent request but the competent Secretary of State has asked for it to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u239	The request for urgent procedure has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u240	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Commission on Infrastructure, Communications and Public Enterprises on 16 March 2016. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Infrastructure, Transport and Public Enterprises of 16 March 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 124/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux and Mr Inez De Coninck and Mr Jef Van den Bergh. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 124/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux and Mrs Inez De Coninck and Mr Jef Van den Bergh. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u241	Yes [[80]] Yes No. [[60]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u242	These inquiries were developed in a public meeting of the Commission on Infrastructure, Communications and Public Enterprises on 16 March 2016. These interviews were held at the public meeting of the Commission for Infrastructure, Transport and Public Enterprises of 16 March 2016. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 129/1): - a first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Messrs. Marcel Cheron and Stefaan Van Hecke - a second motion for a recommendation was tabled by Ms Karine Lalieux and Mr Stéphane Crusnière; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Inez De Coninck and by Messrs. Benoît Piedboeuf and Veli Yüksel. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 129/1): - a first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Marcel Cheron and Mr Stefaan Van Hecke; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Karine Lalieux and Mr Stéphane Crusnière; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Inez De Coninck and Mr Benoît Piedboeuf and Mr Veli Yüksel. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u243	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in general enthusiasm, and given the practical absence of the ER to date, I will make a brief version. I am not going to ask for the presence of the Minister of Mobility. As I know the Prime Minister is not available... [[Laughs]] ...and that I do not want to rekindle a debate that has been a little painful for your health and perhaps for ours, I will simply recall that I did not get a response from the minister during this inquiry. [[Laughs]] Until then, you will ask me: what is the news? [[Applause]] Don't overdo it, or I'll be even longer. I thank those who have already applauded, but wait for the rest! I would like to make it clear that during this inquiry, when the budget was adjusted, the minister made no request. It's proven and we didn't deny it. We have still not had an answer on the totality of the amount we are talking about in order to complete the RER, in the noble sense of the word "complete". To help this government that clearly needs it, to help the Minister of Mobility who, perhaps one day, will make a very important decision for the ER, and above all to calm your impatience, to all of you who want this session to end, there is only one solution: to vote on my motion for a recommendation! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u244	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u245	Yes [[80]] Yes No. [[60]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u246	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 137 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1619/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1619/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u247	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes [[140]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1649/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1649/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u248	Vote on Amendment No 8 by Evita Willaert cs on Article 2. (1554/11) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Evita Willaert cs to Article 2. (1554/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[35]] Yes No. 86 No Abstentions 19 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and the Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 7 by Meryame Kitir on Article 4. (1554/10) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Meryame Kitir to Article 4. (1554/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 53 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and the Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u249	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 83 Yes No. [[38]] No Abstentions 19 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1554/12) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1554/12) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u250	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1656/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1656-5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u251	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes [[80]] Yes No. 57 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 972/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill No. 972/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u252	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 79 Yes No. [[60]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 177/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Therefore, Bill 177/1 is rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u253	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes [[80]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 60 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1685/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1685/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u254	Vote on Amendment No 8 by Monica De Coninck on article 33. (1696/5) Vote on amendment No 8 by Monica De Coninck to Article 33. (1696/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 49 Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 33 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 33 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 9 by Monica De Coninck on article 35. (1696/5) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Monica De Coninck to Rule 35. (1696/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 54 Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 35 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 35 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u255	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u256	Mr President, I would like to make it quite clear that we agree with a number of points. We also wanted to endorse this bill, but we have a major problem. We have tabled an amendment because the right of residence of people can be removed if fraud is proven. However, many dossiers also involve children, children born here and going to school here. When a parent is returned, the children must also come. We have tabled a proposal to limit the period to seven years in which fraud can be detected. This is a bit similar to the tax fraud regime. We thought this was reasonable. The majority has just voted this amendment down. We find this particularly child unfriendly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u257	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes [[84]] Yes No. [[37]] No Abstentions 19 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1696/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1696/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u258	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (vote/vote 16) Yes 82 Yes No. 44 No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 989/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill No. 989/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u259	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes 138 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1727/7) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1727/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u260	Vote on Amendment No 3 by Véronique Caprasse cs to Article 5. (1752/2) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Véronique Caprasse cs on Article 5. (1752/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes [[25]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 35 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Vote on Amendment No 2 to Article 5 by Raoul Hedebouw. (1752/2) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Raoul Hedebouw on Article 5. (1752/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes [[16]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 41 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Vote on amendment No 1 by Barbara Not css to Article 5. (1752/2) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Barbara Pas cs on Article 5. (1752/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Yes No. 136 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 4 to Article 5 by Raoul Hedebouw. (1752/2) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Raoul Hedebouw on Article 5. (1752/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 21) Yes [[18]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 40 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u261	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote (Vote/vote 22) Yes 135 Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total The Court therefore accepts the proposal. (1752/5) Accordingly, the House adopted the proposal. (1752/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u262	I propose that the parliamentary committee of inquiry be responsible for investigating the circumstances that led to the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016 at Brussels National Airport and at Maalbeek Metro Station in Brussels, including the evolution and approach of the fight against radicalism and the terrorist threat. I propose that you set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to examine the circumstances that led to the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016 at Brussels-National Airport and Maelbeek Metro Station in Brussels, including the evolution and management of the fight against radicalism and the terrorist threat. The committee shall consist of 17 effective members appointed by the Chamber of Representatives among its members, according to the rule of proportional representation of the political groups. The Commission shall consist of 17 effective members appointed by the House of Representatives from among its members in accordance with the rule of proportional representation of political groups. An alternate shall be appointed by political group. He shall be appointed one alternate member per political group. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure, the distribution of this committee is as follows: I would point out that, in accordance with Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure, the allocation of this committee is as follows: - N-VA: 4 - PS: 3 - MR: 3 - CD&V: 2 - Open Vld: 2 - sp.a: 1 - Ecolo-Green: 1 - cdH: 1 The chairmen of the political groups have sent me the applications of the members of their political groups who will be part of this committee. The presidents of the political groups have sent me the nominations of the members of their group who will make up this committee. N-VA
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u263	- Peter De Roover. - Christoph D'Haese - Siegfried Bracke - Kristien Van Vaerenbergh
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u264	Inez De Coninck PS
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u265	- Laurette Onkelinx. - Willy Demeyer. - Andre Frédéric
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u266	Karine Lalieux MR
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u267	- Denis Ducarme. - Philippe Pivin - Richard Miller. Alternate/Suppléant: Philippe Goffin CD&V fixed members / effectifs: - Servais Verherstraeten - Raf Terwingen
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u268	Franky Demon Open Vld
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u269	- Patrick Dewael. - Carina Van Cauter
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u270	Dirk Janssens sp.a.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u271	Meryame Kitir
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u272	Hans Bonte Ecolo-Green
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u273	Stefaan Van Hecke
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u274	Gilles Vanden Burre cdH
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u275	Georges Dallemagne
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u276	Francis Delperee Since the number of admissible candidates corresponds to the number of seats to be taken to the political groups which have nominated candidates, it is not necessary to vote in accordance with Rule 157 (6) of the Rules of Procedure. Since the number of eligible candidates corresponds to the number of places to be given to political groups that have nominated candidates, there is no vote in accordance with Rule 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure. I hereby declare elected candidates who have been nominated. Accordingly, I declare the candidates nominated elected. I also propose that the Committee of Inquiry be installed in the Europe room immediately after the end of the plenary session.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-04-14-54-plenair-ip106x.u277	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 21 April 2016. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 21 April 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 21 April 2016 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 21 April 2016, at 2.15 p.m.
