ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u1	Minister, the Dehaene Government introduced three social contributions with the Global Plan. Employees have paid a special social security contribution annually since 1995, pensioners pay a solidarity contribution and self-employed persons in primary and secondary occupations pay a higher social security contribution. The special social security contribution shall be calculated on full family income. If a spouse is an employed person and the other selfemployed person, the Law of 30 March 1994 laying down social provisions provides that the amount of the contribution calculated shall not only be reduced by deductions from the salary of the spouse who is a worker, but also by the supplement to social security contributions paid by the spouse who is a selfemployed person. I refer to Article 110 (1) of the said Act and the answer to Written Question No. 113 of Hugo Olaerts of 10 October 1995. It is clear that the Global Plan requires self-employed workers, both in primary and secondary occupations, to pay a higher contribution and that the supplement must be deducted from the BBSZ calculated on full family income. To this end, the National Institute for Social Insurance of the Self-employed must annually inform the FPS Finance of the supplementary amount. Several fiscalists and tax consultants now point out that the set-off of self-employed persons in the secondary profession would no longer happen. However, the Minister of Self-employed Willy Borsus raised my oral question No. 9466 replied that the procedure had not changed. The RSVZ continues to receive the breakdown of social contributions for the self-employed in addition to the social security funds each year, after which it communicates the supplements to social contributions for the self-employed in primary and secondary occupations to the FPS Finance. Minister, are the adjustments for all self-employed persons being made in a consistent and systematic way? For the sake of clarity, can the amount charged not be included on the tax bill itself, so that a taxable person can verify it with the amount stated on the certificate he receives from his social security fund? Is the fact that pension income is exempt from that special contribution taken into account in the case of pensioners engaged in a self-employed activity in the secondary profession? Or, in that case, is the contribution due calculated on the total income, i.e. income from the self-employed occupation and pension income?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u2	The adjustments to the social security contributions of all self-employed persons, both in the secondary and the main occupation, shall be made in a consistent and systematic manner. The FPS Finance uses the data he receives from the Crossroads Bank of Social Security. That information indicates whether or not the taxable person is subject to the special social security contribution, the BBSZ. They also include the amount of the supplement to social contributions for self-employed persons. In principle, the FPS Finance doesn't change that data. If the taxable person is subject to the BBSZ, the above supplement shall be settled, otherwise. In the event of a common attack, the family shall be subject to the BBSZ as soon as one of the two taxable persons is subject. The amount charged is shown at the top of the bill, in particular under codes 1765 and 2765. Moreover, code 1084 indicates whether or not the taxable person or the family is subject to the BBSZ. The value 1 means subject, the value 2 means not subject to the BBSZ. In calculating the BBSZ, pensions, pensions and as such allowances are always excluded from the calculation basis. With regard to your third, rather specific question, we have requested the necessary information from the pension services, but we have still not received it so far. As soon as we have it, we will deliver it in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u3	Minister, I am sure to take your answer with me to the fiscalists who contacted me, to see whether some of the cases have slipped into error and where that might lie. Then I'll definitely come back to you with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u4	Mr President, Minister, I would like to take stock with you of the involvement of Dexia Bank in the creation of offshore companies for the benefit of its customers. In the midst of a banking crisis, while it was the subject of the first plans designed to avoid its bankruptcy with great reinforcement of public money, the Franco-Belgian bank Dexia helped many of its customers to avoid tax through the creation of offshore companies in Panama. According to documents revealed in the case "Panama Papers", Experta Corporate and Trust Services, a subsidiary of Dexia based in Luxembourg, was even the company that created the most offshore structures at the Mossack Fonseca law office. 1,600 exotic companies were created for wealthy bank customers, who could hide their assets on accounts in Luxembourg, Jersey or Switzerland, according to information published by the press on 11 April. Other journalists have been investigating. For example, in Le Vif, journalist David Leloup highlights Dexia's number of offshore subsidiaries in tax havens between 2005 and 2014. Obviously, Dexia has been very active in this area. It is an element that could not be studied in the special Dexia commission; it will probably have to be re-examined, but in the meantime I would like to ask you about the state of your information and action with regard to these revelations. Minister, since the publication of this information about Dexia, have you questioned the FSMA, the National Bank and the current Dexia leaders about the veracity of this information? Do the information obtained confirm the facts reported in the Panama Papers? How many offshore companies have been created through this Luxembourg subsidiary of Dexia? What are the investment amounts involved? If it can be assessed, what is the amount of tax evaded? How is it possible that the regulators in charge of Dexia's surveillance at the time did not identify and denounce these practices? Were the directors at the time informed of the activities of this Luxembourg subsidiary? In my opinion, they should have been. What are the possible prosecutions in relation to these facts? Has an ISI investigation been conducted on the basis of information published in the press? Is legal action envisaged or decided against the bank's officials at the time?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u5	Minister, the huge leak of Panama Papers information confirms what the PTB had already denounced in March 2013, namely that great fortunes are largely abusing Panama's tax haven, even if this is not just about Panama. Journalists have demonstrated Dexia's direct involvement in the case, via its Luxembourg subsidiary Experta, which has created more than 1,600 offshore companies via the law firm Mossack Fonseca. Experta is a subsidiary of the International Bank in Luxembourg (BIL), which belonged to the Dexia Group. Experta, a personal tax consulting firm, was one of the world's largest customers of Mossack Fonseca. Its clients received these companies to hide accounts in Luxembourg, Switzerland and Jersey. But even more serious, the bank, saved in extremis by the Belgian State in 2008 thanks to the injection of €3 billion of public money, was able to continue, until the resale of the BIL in 2012, practices aimed at allowing its customers to evade tax via tax havens, even though it had benefited from the taxpayer's money. In the press, we also learn that Dexia's Brussels headquarters was fully aware of the actions of Experta. "Every decision needs to be approved by headquarters," said one expert in 2010. The Regional Director of the Ghent Tax Inspectorate (ISI) Karel Anthonissen said: "We knew that offshore companies were being used by Belgian tax residents. In one in two cases, a large Belgian bank was involved. I alerted the CBFA and my hierarchy in 2009, but there was no willingness to tackle this type of fraud." Karel Anthonissen quotes Frank Philipsen, the ISI boss, as well as various ministers, Didier Reynders, Koen Geens, Steven Vanackere. Apparently, the ISI already had evidence in 2009! These are serious facts. How do you explain that, despite the warnings, no one reacted? Is there a conscious will not to tackle this type of fraud, as Mr Anthonissen suggests? There is clearly a serious problem with the CBFA or FMSA, its successor, and with the National Bank. How do you explain that? Who is responsible? On the basis of all this information, we have the right to ask ourselves how many scandals of this kind we have to expect? How do you explain the non-reaction of the many government officials in Dexia Bank? What steps are being taken now to ensure that this does not happen again?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u6	Mr Gilkinet, Mr Van Hees, if the information on how Dexia would have participated on a large scale in such constructions proves to be correct, that would be totally unacceptable. The results of the investigation in this regard are to be expected because, as I have already indicated, my administration has not yet had the opportunity to examine all the files in depth. As soon as these files are available - which is not quite the case at present, but more than before - the activities and responsibilities within Dexia will need to be verified. I will only be able to answer the question of whether the ISI was well aware of Dexia's role when the ISI conducted this investigation internally. Mr Philipsen has announced this and I will be careful to ensure that it is carried out in depth and with seriousness. If criminal offences have been committed, I count on the Minister of Justice and the criminal courts to examine these irregularities. As far as FMSA is concerned, I have organised a dialogue with that authority to examine the means and instruments available to it so far in the context of its mission in relation to the involvement of financial institutions. As for the National Bank, it should be stressed that, in principle, it does not have fiscal powers. However, there are a number of specific obligations for financial institutions, such as the prohibition of setting up special mechanisms whose objective would encourage tax evasion by third parties. Institutions also have an obligation to carry out a strategy to avoid violations of tax law and to avoid damage to their reputation by dubious tax practices. In addition, there are various legal obligations relating to anti-money laundering provisions, such as the identification of clients operating through legal structures. Following the disclosures in the press in the Panama Papers case, BNB reminded financial institutions of their obligations in this regard and also asked institutions about the existence or collaboration with structures, such as those discovered in these offshore centres. As announced earlier, I have instructed the ISI to investigate the files known as Panama Papers. It is obviously premature to decide already on the existence of tax abuses and, in particular, on the extent of them. As far as the Dexia Group is concerned, I can provide you with the following information. The Dexia group, within its current scope, including the subsidiaries and branches of the group and Dexia Crédit Local (DCL), has no private bank activity and does not offer a home-based service or administer trusts for the benefit of customers. None of these companies have a business relationship with Mossack Fonseca. In the past, the International Bank in Luxembourg (BIL) and more particularly its subsidiary Experta Lux have had direct stakes or sold companies domiciled in Panama. These activities have been carried out in compliance with the regulatory obligations applicable to Luxembourg and, in particular, with regard to obligations to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorism. Documents remain in the possession of the group and have been consulted. No mention is made of any business relationship with Mossack Fonseca. At this stage, on the basis of the same documents, Dexia cannot confirm the figures mentioned in the press. BIL was transferred in October 2012. Its activities and those of Experta Lux, wholly owned by BIL, were brought to the attention of the future purchaser of BIL. After consulting the documents in the possession of the group, it appears that, with the aim of managing tax and reputation risk and on the basis of a strategic review of the private bank, the Dexia Group and the BIL undertook, from 2009, a number of actions aimed at reselling or liquidating direct holdings in offshore domiciled companies. This objective was achieved, with most of the companies concerned being sold or wound up between 2009 and 2010. The last was liquidated in 2013. The objective of reducing the number of companies sold and domiciled offshore led, between 2009 and September 2011, to close 40% of these companies and to refocus activities on products domiciled in Luxembourg. This strategy was accompanied by a new governance with, in particular, the change of the head of the private bank of BIL and the appointment of the former Chief Compliance Officer of the group as managing director of Experta Lux. Finally, Dexia will make available to the Special Committee all information on this subject and still in its possession. For information, Dexia provided the above information to the Belgian regulator at the end of April 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u7	Minister, thank you for your answers. So you confirm that Dexia has been very present in tax havens and in the formation of offshore companies, with a decrease of this presence from 2009. You also confirm that the current leaders of Dexia are ready to come to the Panama Papers special commission to explain the information they have in this regard. [[The first element is very serious.]] Dexia was a bank with public capital and helped facilitate tax evasion or fraud. The second element is interesting, because we need to work on it and identify responsibilities. I must point out that you have another opportunity to inquire, since Mr. Van Loo, representative of the SFPI and administrator of Dexia since 2008, could also, via the SFPI, transmit information to you. We must therefore continue to investigate in this regard. Where appropriate, even in the case of past facts, all possible legal actions must be envisaged, as well as tax actions through the ISI or through a complaint. It is important that Belgian banks understand that they cannot contribute with impunity to the plundering of the State of vast resources through taxation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u8	Minister, you are telling us that if this information is correct, it is unacceptable. I agree with you. As to whether they are proven, I can possibly understand your caution. However, yesterday I asked Mr Philipsen about the involvement of banks in the organisation of tax fraud. He was obliged to acknowledge that they are largely involved in several cases: from KB Lux and QFIE to Panama Papers. We can be careful, but the evidence is there. It must be acknowledged that banks have made a significant contribution to tax evasion. Is that still the case? I have doubts about the quality of the control exercised by the FSMA and the BNB. You say you are talking to these institutions. It seems to me that you should reconsider the method as far as, obviously, these controls are not enough. The fact that the Dexia Group, within its current scope, no longer engages in such activities is not surprising, since we are in a liquidation phase, as evidenced by its status as a bad bank. Having said that, I was also asking you about the successive political administrators. Did they know? The question arises. We know that important people were sitting in this bank. In view of Dexia's fraudulent activity, it has something to intrigue us with. In any case, in the future, there will have to be a serious question of the procedures for controlling banks in terms of tax evasion. That seems essential to me. Moreover, the Panama Papers Commission will investigate the problem of banks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u9	I've asked you that question. That was agreed, but we will not have two parallel committee meetings. If there are any points on which the Minister can be questioned, we should be able to do so, but we will not do so twice. We heard the BBI yesterday. He said what she had to say. We won't take that case over and over again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u10	In relation to this, Mr President, I have questions that have been put to the minister but that have been withdrawn, apparently to refer them to the Panama Papers Committee. These were two questions on international tax treaties, but the minister is not present in the Panama Papers Committee, so I think it would be quite logical to be able to ask them here. With your permission, I will re-introduce these two questions so that they can be put to the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u11	You have to decide whether you're asking this question or not. It's not my job to do it. I have no power to withdraw the questions. In the Flemish Parliament it is possible, but here the president has nothing to say, he is a notary. Even though we have heard the Minister's answer to the question on Dexia today, I would urge that we do not end up in a situation where we repeat what, for example, happened the day before. Yesterday we heard the BBI for seven and a half hours. We've been able to ask all our questions and they've answered them. We're not gonna do things over and over again. If there are certain points that you think the Minister should be questioned about, then that is possible. That's what you have to decide, but we're not gonna do the same thing twice, are we? Mr Gilkinet, I know your opinion on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u12	If, as far as Dexia is concerned, we have to wait until September to hear the bank, you will not prevent us from asking the minister in May about the information available!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u13	Dexia and Belfius are coming next week. We can ask for both.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u14	The Panama Commission is working on recommendations until December. There is still a control of the government's action that must be taken in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u15	You will have the power of control and the power of inquiry. Yesterday, in committee, everyone had the opportunity to ask their questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u16	Mr Minister, on the basis of the legislation, the Customs and Excise Service, which is still within your competence, may, in some specific cases, require a guarantee. This guarantee is in fact intended to ensure that subsequent customs debts can be recovered from the undertakings concerned. However, I am not unaware of any difficulties. The e-mails have undoubtedly also reached you from the port of Antwerp when a dispute arises between a taxable person and the customs authorities. The deposit will then be blocked. I have here a case for me, in which the bail was paid in September 2013. The company is in liquidation and would eventually be settled. Now, every year, a reviewer must be appointed to produce a revisoral report before the liquidation can take place. That bail is blocked because the dispute is being investigated. In this particular case, information is requested from as many as seventy thousand second-hand vehicles shipped from the port of Antwerp. One should not forget that this is a business with more than 4,000 jobs in our Antwerp port. If, of course, such dispute files continue to drag on for more than three years and hundreds of thousands of data are requested, then we have a problem. The conclusion of the dispute can then lead to pressing economic situations for the company concerned. I cannot imagine that a dispute is intended to drag on for such a long time. I shall therefore come to my question. Are you aware of the problem? Do you see any possibility of giving or strengthening instructions to the Disputes Department in such cases to address this issue? It is important to know that this business in the port of Antwerp is under threat from French seaports, which are very active lobbying and providing a facilitating framework. At the moment the customs authorities control everything on the quay, but yet we note that two or three years later everything is once again subject to administrative control. Fines are then issued which are often high. In short, I think there is a problem here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u17	Mr Van Mechelen, there are several situations in which a taxable person ends up in a situation in which a guarantee has to be paid to ensure a customs debt. However, in the case of a dispute, which is an infringement of customs and excise duties, there is the possibility for the General Administration of Customs and Excise to release seized goods against guarantee. In this case, the deposit amounts to 100 % of the estimated value of the goods, or at least the amount of the taxes involved. The guarantee shall also ensure that the negligence is not committed and that the taxable person has access to his goods. At administrative level, dossiers shall be dealt with within the prescribed time limit. The speed with which a dispute is settled often depends on the intention of the offender in the context of an amicable settlement or on the judicial procedure before the judicial court. In most cases, it appears that the General Administration of Customs and Excise is upheld in court proceedings and that the required guarantee was justified, that the secured amount can be entered in final receipt and thus the interests of the Belgian State are best defended. I am also aware that certain individual cases drag on for a very long time and lead to all kinds of complex situations. I think we have every interest in encouraging them to deal with the matter properly but quickly and in an orderly manner. Should you be able to provide more information on certain individual cases, I am confident to give a clear signal to customs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u18	I noticed you were in copy of the e-mail. So I assume the information is known to your cabinet. I can still get them to you. I can confirm it's about a rather flamboyant lady. She lives in a particularly beautiful municipality north of Antwerp. Let's just say customs is a key factor in the success of our Antwerp port. Everyone has to do their job. That it is not a world of wimps is well known to you and me. On the other hand, we must also ensure that we do not put companies in difficulty by dealing with such disputes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u19	Mr President, Minister, a year ago, in April 2015, the press announced that the government had decided to invest 500,000 euros in the extension of the Belgian Internet Service Centre (BISC), the unit of the Special Inspectorate of Taxes, which focuses on Internet fraud. It is my responsibility that, to date, this investment would still not be realized. Minister, do you confirm the non-realization of the investment in the extension of the BISC? If not, when was this investment made and for what amount? If so, why is it not realized? Do you maintain the project? For when will it be realized?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u20	Mr President, Mr Van Hees, as a reminder, the Belgian Internet Service Centre aims to provide operational support to FPS Finance inspection services in the analysis of fraud typology, through the implementation of specific techniques of Internet research and data analysis. At the Finance Committee on 2 March 2016, I have already had the opportunity to answer a question from Mr Gilkinet concerning the implementation of the 2015 budget notification on the BISC and to provide an overview of current investments. Contrary to what your question might suggest, the government's decision to invest in the BISC is in no way called into question and its strengthening is very real. The updated state of play regarding the implementation of investments for the BISC is as follows: in terms of human resources, four specialized A2 agents were recruited via Selor thanks to the budget allocated on 3 April 2015; these agents gradually entered into office in the last quarter of 2015 in order to work on the data collected on the Internet and on their intersection with other available data. In addition, internal calls for candidates for two more business profiles were also launched for the BISC. One of these employees joined the BISC in December 2015, the other entry into service actually dates from March 1, 2016. Due to the difficulty in finding adequate internal profiles, and the importance of continuing to invest in the IBSC, it was proposed that a procedure be initiated for the establishment of a future recruitment reserve for the IBSC, in collaboration with Selor. As regards the granting of the additional ICT resources, the implementation of the various aspects of the business case continues. The specialized software licences to facilitate data collection and automate processing processes were delivered in early April and are now available to IBSC members. The purchase of licences for access to certain external data sources has also been partially completed. The TotalPatent LexisNexis database is available for investigators and another procedure for accessing an external corporate database is being prepared. With regard to the connectivity and upgrading of the technical infrastructure of the BISC, which is intended to significantly increase the current investigative capacity of the BISC, the finalisation of the facility is carried out in two stages. The first is the creation of a virtual environment dedicated to the BISC, which will be operational in a month. The second phase is scheduled for autumn 2016 and provides for the establishment of the final structure, which should meet the highest performance and safety requirements. For the remainder, concerning the BISC project, I would like to refer you to the elements of my reply contained in the report of the Finance and Budget Committee of 2 March 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u21	Thank you, Minister. To hear your answer, this project continues to move forward. On the partial or non-allocation of these 500,000 euros, if I understand correctly, you refer me to the response of 2 March. So I will see that answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u22	Minister, I would like to ask you about the follow-up to my question of 9 March. I was asking you in committee about the tax arrangements that the multinational IKEA made. As a reminder, according to the European Greens' investigation report, the damage to the Belgian State would amount to €7.5 million. In your reply, you indicated that "the administration has conducted a survey of the skimming of profits with the taxpayer concerned". You added that your administration and your strategic unit were actively involved in discussions within the OECD and the European Commission on this issue. Since then, two months have passed. I would therefore like to hear from you about the progress of the investigation. So, Minister, what stage has the administration's investigation into IKEA's tax arrangements reached? What are the first conclusions? What are the expected outcomes? According to what timetable does the administration intend to work? What has been the outcome of the OECD and European Commission consultations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u23	Mr Calvo, would you like to add something to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u24	Yes, Mr President. In any case, I will not simply translate Mr Gilkinet's question. Minister, you will not be surprised that our group has a particular interest in this dossier, as the European green parties are also at the root of that dossier. At some point you have also indicated yourself that this requires an investigation. That is why I would like to go back to that at this stage. Minister, what investigations have been initiated? Could you give us a little more explanation on that? What is the state of play in this? Allow me to take advantage of this question to look at the state of the business of corporate tax reform once again, since one has to do with the other. You were given a mandate by the government during budgetary control. As you know, I am also very much in favour of this reform. That is why I want to look into this at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u25	Mr Calvo, Mr Gilkinet, indeed, for the record, the IKEA survey "flat pack tax around" was carried out by the Greens EFA group of the European Parliament and was published around mid-February 2016 this year. By the way, it's this way that the BBI was notified through the press. The audit report concerned shall, as indicated, be the subject of an investigation. I am able to confirm to you that such control of a multinational company, as in this case IKEA, requires a very detailed investigation of the transfer prices between the different units of this multinational, transfer price for which a standard processing period of more or less a year must be provided. This rather long period, I admit, is due, on the one hand, to the need to gather all the useful information which must be recovered abroad and, on the other hand, to the analysis of these data, which is not at all simple, followed by multiple consultations. So people are working on it. I can confirm that, but it is premature at the moment to draw any conclusions, as it is a little premature, Mr Calvo, to draw any conclusions on the reform of corporate taxation. I can confirm that the cabinet is currently mapping the various large deductions and clearly quantifying their impact. Several scenarios are being worked out, which will then arrive at the government's table at the appropriate time and hopefully lead to a concrete decision-making process soon. First of all, however, we put all the figures in the right order.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u26	Minister, I note in my agenda that I have to ask you again in March 2017. I'm already preparing the question. It is clear that the deadlines are long, but it is normal for there to be an adversarial procedure and I see that questioning foreign tax administrations takes time. However, it is an emblematic record of certain harmful practices: the use by multinational companies of the lack of coordination and communication between tax systems within Europe itself. This is one of the elements on which urgent work is needed to preserve the taxable base and to ensure that everyone pays the right tax, not just small and medium-sized enterprises, artisans, self-employed and employees, but also multinational corporations. Thank you for paying attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u27	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. The investigation is ongoing and you are committed to this, which is a good thing. The time limit is undoubtedly due to the complexity, but perhaps also to the occupation of the cell crew. I would therefore like to invite you to consider whether this period can be shortened if the occupation also grows. Yesterday this was explained very diplomatically. At least that was my impression after hearing the employees in question. With regard to corporation tax, I am pleased to hear you say that the study work is in full swing. I think it would be interesting if you could make this information available to Parliament even before the design of the new corporate tax was made when the figures were mapped out on corporate tax and the impact of the various deductions. This gives you, firstly, greater support for the reform of corporate taxation. Some people may still need to be convinced of this. These figures can help in this respect. Secondly, it also obliges the various groups to admit colour in this context. We are also prepared to come up with our own proposal on corporate tax, but you are in the cockpit when it comes to collecting the figures. So I am asking the party to take note of the figures of the Van Overtveldt cabinet when that is done.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u28	Mr President, Minister, it has been several years since citizens and trade associations expressed dissatisfaction with the 1 and 2 eurocent coins. In 2012, the Eurobarometer survey commissioned by the European Commission highlighted the fact that 83% of Belgian respondents were in favour of the pure and simple abolition of these coins. This dissatisfaction was mainly due to the very unusable nature of these parts. Indeed, while they are still often returned to consumers by traders, they are difficult to reusable later, given their very limited value, so that they become bulky in purses. On the part of the merchants, the opinions were hardly more enthusiastic. Indeed, the costs associated with sorting, counting and transporting these coins to banks are high in comparison with their value. In addition, the handling of these parts can lengthen waiting times at the crates. Since 2014, Belgian legislation has been aimed at discouraging the use of these coins, allowing traders to practice the symmetrical rounding rule to the nearest 5 eurocents. It has been foreseen that traders will freely choose whether or not to adopt this principle, but if they do, they are required to clearly indicate to consumers, by means of a pictogram, the technique of rounding. The latter applies to both bank card payments and cash payments. As you know, it would probably have been easier to simply eliminate the coins of one and two eurocents. However, our European commitments do not allow this. These coins are legally valid throughout the euro area and cannot be unilaterally refused in Belgium. On the other hand, the possibility of rounding prices is a good proposal put forward by the previous federal government, and it would be interesting to be able to take stock of them today. Minister, do you have any refined data, obtained in synergy with the services of your colleague in charge of the SPF Economy, on the effects of rounding prices for consumers and traders, as well as information on price inflation? This was a question at the time of the introduction of this measure. Have the general objectives been achieved in terms of discouraging the use of 1 and 2 eurocent coins? Have new measures been defined or are they envisaged in the short term to strengthen the limitation of the use of these parts? If so, could you provide me with the content? I am thinking, for example, of awareness-raising campaigns on free adherence to symmetrical rounding, of the possibility of abolishing the obligation of this pictogram in order to simplify the system or to allow a rounding for payment without the physical presence of the consumer. I am thinking in particular of online shopping which is currently not concerned. Finally, can you tell me whether there is currently a reflection at European level on the possibility of deleting the said documents? If so, what is the government's position on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u29	Mr Calomne, this matter is included in the Code of Economic Law and the subject is more a matter for my colleague in charge of the Economy. As part of my expertise, I provide you with the following information. Coins of one and two eurocents are indeed legally valid throughout the euro area and cannot be refused unilaterally. The Law of 15 May 2014 implementing the Competitiveness Pact for Employment and Recovery has included in the Code of Economic Law provisions relating to the rounding of payments in euros. Since 8 January 2016, the law of 18 December 2015, amending in particular the Code of Economic Law, allows companies to round the total amount to be paid by the consumer to the nearest multiple of 5 eurocents, also for card payments. I do not have any official precise data obtained in synergy with the services of the SPF Economy, SMEs, Middle Classes and Energy on the effects of rounding prices, both for consumers and traders as well as for price inflation. Since the legislation applicable to rounding is relatively recent, it is not yet possible to determine precisely whether the general objectives of the law of 15 May 2014, as amended in December 2015 relating to rounding of payments in euro, have been achieved. Referring to a recent survey of members of an independent organisation, the figures for rounding are rather disappointing, since they indicate that three quarters of traders know that they can round prices to zero or to the nearest five eurocents since 8 January 2016 for all cash and card payments, but that only 10% of traders do so, and that 22% do not yet round, but would intend to do so quite quickly. According to the information I received from the SPF Economy, SMEs, Middle Classes and Energy, no campaigns were carried out by their services. The Federal Public Service Finance also does not campaign to promote the use of rounding The logistics management service has had auto-adhesive versions of the pictogram to be displayed by traders to inform consumers that they are applying the rounding of payments in euros. This pictogram is distributed to the offices of the Federal Public Service Economy, which are responsible for making it available to businesses and professionals. The FPS website Economy, SMEs, Middle Classes and Energy informs that FPS Finance offices can issue this self-adhesive version of the pictogram. A downloadable version is also available online. At European level, the Commission wants measures to harmonise the various legislations relating to rounding by different Member States. At present, no Member State has proposed the deletion of 1 and 2 eurocent coins and consensus is far from being reached on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u30	Minister, thank you for all your answers. I will also ask the Minister responsible for the Economy for some clarification. It is, at this stage, too early to have a complete picture of the situation, but I will come back to the subject in a few months to see how this trend has changed. I note, however, that 10% of traders are already doing so, that 75% are aware of the principle. It's already pretty good, even if there's still a margin of progress. You are also telling me that 22% of them intend to be part of the process. That would therefore make nearly a third of the traders; it is a good start. We will come back to you in a while to find out how this file is evolving.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u31	Mr. Chair, Minister, I am referring to a previous question I asked about the inventory of tax expenditures that was missing all the corporate tax data. Besides, if at the same time you can give me news of the update of the missing information, it would help me even if it is not part of my questions. In your reply, you told me that the new computer application used from 2014 onwards for the enrolment of corporate tax does not allow for the release of this statistical information. Your answer surprised me somewhat, hence my questions. Is this computer application the "BizTax" application, the one that encodes data for corporate tax enrollment? Was this application designed by the FPS Finance IT department or by an external company? In the second case, what is the company and how much was paid for the computer application? Did not the specification include the ability of the computer application to provide statistics on corporate tax expenditures? If not, how do you explain this absence in the specifications? If so, how do you explain this absence in the computer application? Will the default be corrected for the next tax expenditure inventory?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u32	Mr President, these are BizTax and CalcIsoc applications. Both applications were designed by external companies. The BizTax application was designed by CSC. Its budget for the years 2009 to 2015 has been rounded to 8.5 million. For your information, the exact amount can be found in my written answer. The CalcIsoc application was designed by Sopra Steria. Its budget for the years 2013 to 2015 has also been rounded to €1.2 million. With regard to your question about ISOC tax statistics and expenditures, it was originally intended that the data warehouse application would be the sole provider of statistics. The import of BizTax data into the data warehouse is in the analysis phase. To remedy the lack of statistics based on data warehouse data, the following actions were taken. This is a fifth measure. First, the production of the CalcIsoc feature "revenues from recruitment" for the AG - Fisc management and the study and documentation services. Secondly, the production of BizTax TBT extractions for the performance management application. Thirdly, the production of the CalcIsoc "tax statistics" feature for the study and documentation service. Fourthly, the production of the CalcIsoc "listing equipment" feature for taxation services. Fifthly, access to the BizTax and CalcIsoc databases for data management agents in order to make the extractions requested by the study and documentation service.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u33	Minister, I must confess that I have not understood anything about the five actions you have just mentioned. Perhaps this lack of visibility was the goal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u34	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u35	In any case, I understand what you told me at the beginning of your answer about the two companies that paid one $8.5 million and the other $1.2 million for applications that visibly do not give tax expenditure statistics to corporate tax. You tell me then that it was the data warehouse, so another statistical application, that had to provide this. In any case, I have the impression that you are not really answering my question, which was: has the input on tax expenditure statistics ISOC been planned? Obviously, no. With all due respect, minister, I have the impression that the somewhat complicated answer you give me is a little bit of a way of drowning fish.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u36	Mr. Chair, Minister, the latest Annual Report of the Advance Rulings Service (ADS) mentions for 2014 a total of 739 decisions, of which 667 (90%) are favourable to the applicant while only 7 (0.9%) are unfavourable. Other decisions result in withdrawals, are inadmissible or mixed. There are thus almost a hundred times more favourable decisions than unfavourable ones in terms of ruling. This impressive ratio raises questions, especially as it is known that it is mainly large companies that submit requests for advance rulings. I come to my questions, Minister. Is the large proportion of favourable decisions not indicative of excessive flexibility on the part of the ADS with respect to the tax structures that are submitted to it? What other explanations would be possible (because I'm sure you have other explanations to give me)? Decisions rendered from 2005 to 2014 total 43 adverse decisions and 46 inadmissibility decisions. [[Of these, how many have they been or would have been the subject of legal action by the applicant?]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u37	Mr Van Hees, contrary to what you have just said, requests for advance rulings are not mostly made by large companies. In 2015, only 34.7% of applications were submitted by large companies, while 36.5% were for SMEs and 20.2% for individuals. Finally, 8.6% of the applications were submitted by other legal persons. In other words, large companies' requests represent only one third of the applications. It is also inaccurate to say that the large proportion of favourable decisions would be a sign of the SDA's flexibility with respect to tax structures submitted to it. It should be recalled that the SDA has put in place a prefiling system. This means that applicants, on an informal basis, can get an idea of the SDA's position on the operations they plan to carry out. It goes without saying that the operations on which the SDA has, in this phase, a negative opinion almost never end up with a formal request. In the absence of a formal request, no negative decision is made by the SDA. In fact, the SDA mentions in its annual report the cases that were submitted to it and that it did not accept. The large number of favourable decisions is also due to the fact that many applications do not specifically address tax constructions, but rather seek tax security for non-complex transactions. For example, many claims relate, for example, to the tax treatment of employer-specific expenses. To my knowledge, since 2005, no legal action has been brought.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u38	Minister, thank you for your clarification of the clients of the Advance Rulings Service. Thank you for your reply on the fact that this would not be a sign of flexibility. I have to tell you that you didn't really convince me. It is true that the prefiling actually makes it slightly alters the statistics. However, even if it is taken into account, a large majority of decisions are favourable. In any case, the fact that there is no appeal confirms that this body is very profitable for those who have the opportunity to file applications. I'm staying with my doubts about this ruling service. And the fact that there is no recourse tends to confirm these doubts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u39	Minister, AGFisc Circular No 36/2015 of 23 November 2015 concerns the rules for deductibility of VAT on company cars. Since 2011 (Law of 29 December 2010), the determination of deductible VAT has been subject to three methods left to the choice of the debtors. The second can easily lead to a deduction of 50%, which is the maximum allowed regardless of the method used. One condition for using this method is that the vehicle is actually used as a work tool or as a means of operation. However, the last paragraph of point 117 of this long circular lightens this condition: "When a taxable person makes a vehicle available to a worker as part of his wage policy, the administration considers that, in relation to the application of method 2, the vehicle is actually used as a working instrument or as a means of operation". In other words, the circular admits an artifice. Minister, why does this circular introduce such an interpretation of the law? Does the circular not go beyond its role in introducing a presumption that favours corporate cars and reduces government revenues? Do you consider it appropriate to increase the attractiveness of company cars to employers, given their negative impact on road congestion, the environment and health? I am not going to open the debate on company cars, but we know that they are getting a lot of criticism, especially because of the tax advantage they enjoy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u40	Mr Van Hees, the professional use of a vehicle must in principle be determined by means of a comprehensive logbook of journeys. However, in order to simplify the administrative burdens of the taxable persons concerned, the administration has provided for two alternative methods, the application of which is governed by strict conditions. The circular to which you refer clarifies the succession of administrative comments published since the first decision dated October 2011. One of the conditions is that the vehicle is actually used as a working instrument or as a means of operation in the context of economic activity. Vehicles which are not used for that economic activity of the taxable person, or only in a negligible way, are therefore expressly excluded from the application of this method. The question of whether a vehicle is used meaningfully as a work instrument or as a means of operation is a question of fact. In order to avoid discussion, it was decided that, when a taxable person makes a vehicle available to a worker as part of his wage policy, this means of transport is considered to be a means of operating the undertaking. This view is justified by the fact that the provision of the vehicle results from the specific relationship between the employer and the employee. This provision is the direct result of the services the employee provides to his or her employer, which the employer uses in the course of his or her economic activity. However, the right to deduct is, in the end, limited according to the actual professional use of the vehicle. I would point out that the application of these alternative methods is sometimes to the advantage of the taxable person, sometimes at his disadvantage, depending on the actual use of company cars. The aim of this circular is to ensure effective application of VAT legislation, as amended by the Act of 29 December 2010, and not to stimulate or discourage the use of company cars.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u41	Minister, thank you for your answer. However, it leaves me unsatisfied. On the one hand, you tell us that the question is whether it is a work instrument or not, that it is a question of fact and that we must avoid endless discussions and, on the other hand, that there would be a specific relationship between employer and employee. I do not see how this determines whether it is a real instrument or not. You tell us that sometimes there is an advantage, sometimes a disadvantage. I note that we are talking about method 2, which starts from the assumption that the number of kilometres of private travel is 6,000 and the number of working days is 200. This method sets standards that do not correspond to reality. This circular, I repeat, creates an artifice in relation to reality. This artifice, in fact, encourages neither more nor less company cars. The circular goes further than what is in the law, it encourages more use of company cars. The fact is clear even if the circular is not entirely clear!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u42	Questions Nos 11100, 11101 and 11103 by Mr Brecht Vermeulen are converted into written questions. Mrs Leen Dierick is not here and has not given a sign of life; her question No. 11130 is therefore deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u43	Mr. President, Minister, the speculation tax is increasingly sharpening the creativity of some brokers. They now offer stock options which, although more risky than shares, are not subject to the speculation tax. The speculation tax would also have other undesirable consequences. According to one study, it would discourage investors under the age of 40 from investing on the stock exchange. The budgetary consequences would also be negative. The tax would have reduced the volume of transactions, which would have a negative impact on the return on the exchange transaction tax. When I asked you about this last January, you replied to me about this tax: "If, however, it should appear that it does not, in its present form, meet the objectives pursued, it could certainly be envisaged to propose amendments to the legislation. Such an assessment is indeed necessary with regard to all the new legal and regulatory provisions." Minister, have you made an assessment of the impact of the introduction of the Speculation Tax? Can you provide me with the budgetary performance of the stock exchange transaction tax between 2005 and 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u44	Mr President, Mr Dispa, an assessment of the impact of the introduction of the speculation tax will, of course, be carried out during the course of the year, and certainly during budgetary controls. The statistics requested on the revenue generated by the exchange transaction tax since 2005 are shown in a table which I will table at the Registry of Parliament. However, between 2005 and 2015, revenues increased from EUR 140 million to EUR 289 million, more than double that amount. It should be noted that these figures are not really comparable with each other given the various legislative changes that took place during the period in question. To give you an idea of the evolution of these revenues in 2016, I can tell you that for the first quarter of 2015 and 2016, they amounted to €54.7 million and €53.7 million respectively. The first months of 2016 tend to show that this is a "normal" year. 2015 turns out to be a rather "abnormal" year in the sense that operations were probably carried out to anticipate the introduction of the speculation tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u45	Minister, thank you. I assume that the full figures will be available in your reply, or in the secretariat?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u46	As I said, I'll send them to the Parliament Registry, but I have the picture here. I can give it to you if you want.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u47	Thank you. In addition, I take note of the evaluation you are announcing for the course of 2016. A first adjustment has just taken place. If the evaluation did not take place within this framework, I assume that it will take place in the course of a second adjustment which may take place during the year. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u48	Mr President, Minister, I have read carefully the Court of Auditors' report of last April on the "Perception of inheritance rights by the FPS Finances" from which an excerpt follows: "The Court of Auditors' audit shows that at present the control of inheritance rights is generally limited to a comparison between the amounts declared by the heirs and the data available within the administration services. The means of investigation available to the administration are scarce and thorough checks are rare and selected without a defined methodology. (...) These routine controls do not allow the administration to effectively combat fraud that may occur in large or complex successions. However, these are not uncommon, as evidenced by the large share of inheritance rights in tax regularizations in recent years. The Court therefore makes recommendations with a view to introducing in-depth checks, in cases where they are deemed necessary. In addition, the Court of Auditors has noted signs within the federal tax administration that can reflect a form of human and material disinvestment in the estate tax department." This excerpt can be found on pages 53 and 54 of this report of the Court of Auditors. As usual, Minister, at the end of the report, you can read the answer you gave, which concludes with the following sentence: "I finally draw your attention to the fact that, with a view to the resumption of the Group 3 regional tax service by the Brussels-Capital Region and the Walloon Region, informal talks are taking place within the Regional Tax Observatory. It will therefore be necessary to assess both the desirability and the efficiency of any new initiatives in the field of human and IT investment of the FPS Finances in the light of the above." Mr. Minister, your answer is worrying, as it suggests that reinvestment in human and computer resources is contingent on progress in negotiations. What is the status of negotiations with the Walloon and Brussels regions on this point? In the absence of a deadline for this possible transfer, will you continue the current disinvestment denounced by the Court of Auditors' report?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to add Mr Gilkinet's question No 11360 on the same subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u50	Minister, I share Mr Dispa's questions. There are some crazy passages in this report of the Court of Auditors which denounce the federal State's disinvestment in the control of inheritance rights pending the regionalisation of this control. There may also be a responsibility on the part of the regions to take charge of these powers themselves, but in the meantime the federal state can be expected to do its job properly. Mr Minister, what answers do you intend to give to this Court of Auditors' report on the state of investment pending the transfer of the exercise of powers within the authority responsible for these checks, in particular in terms of renewal before the transfer, including officials? What is the status of discussions with the Walloon and Brussels Regions on the transfer of this service?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u51	Mr Dispa, only the Flemish Region has already taken over the regional tax department of Group 3, inheritance and certain registration fees, with effect from 1 January 2015. By letter dated 17 July 2015, the Walloon Budget Minister informed me of the fact that he had set up a working group to prepare for the resumption of the regional tax service of Groups No. 2, real estate discount, and No. 3, inheritance and certain registration fees, without, however, notifying either of these recoveries or indicating the planned date(s). To date, the Brussels-Capital Region has not yet expressed its intention to resume the service of Group 3 of regional taxes but of Group 2. The preparatory work on these occasions has already been initiated within the framework of the State-Regions working group which leads the regional tax observatory. Despite the transfer of services, the administration has prepared the following proposals to improve the quality of processes and the control of inheritance rights. These proposals, which could be implemented with priority and limited costs, would make significant progress. One: review and analysis to centralize a number of monitoring and research tasks in a single department. Two: to obtain access for the administration to the central contact point of the National Bank of Belgium in order to simplify the control of declarations of succession and the collection of rights. Three: ongoing collaboration with Febelfin and development of automation in the provision of information for financial institutions. And four, finally: consultation with the Advance Rulings Service and the ISI to obtain a risk analysis. Mr Gilkinet, my administration has taken note of the Court of Auditors' report. As a result of its recommendations, the Administration has prepared the following proposals that can be prioritized and cost-free and that allow significant progress to be made. These are the same points I've just mentioned. With regard to the age pyramid in the registration offices Succession, 43 employees are under 40 years of age, 52 employees between 40 and 50 years of age, 103 employees between 50 and 60 years of age, and 28 employees are over 60 years of age. For the strengthening of the Legal Security branch, including the Succession Registration offices, about ten commitments from Level B file managers are provided for in the 2016 Personnel Plan. Each Region may decide separately to take over regional tax services. To date, the Brussels Capital Region has not yet indicated its intention to take over the regional tax services of Group 3. When a Region decides to take over the regional tax department, it has the choice to do so with or without the takeover of the staff of the relevant FPS Finance administrations. Thank you. Excuse me for the rehearsal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u52	Minister, repetition ensures consistency of responses. It is healthy for you to say the same thing, regardless of the question asked. I want to give you two thoughts. Firstly, I really find it a pity that regionalisation processes are too often accompanied by shortcomings and failures. I don't blame the federal government or yourself, minister, but we see in practice that too often transfers of skills end up causing extremely damaging problems, regardless of the level of authority involved. Secondly, my point may not have to be made here, but I wonder to what extent this very interesting report of the Court of Auditors could not be discussed in detail, perhaps in the Court of Auditors sub-committee. Your administration, Minister, is making proposals for improvement. They could therefore be discussed under the chairmanship of Mr. Van Biesen, who's joining us right now. This could be an opportunity to hear the members of the Court of Auditors who led this audit, as well as the administration, and to develop an analysis that we could share in this sub-committee. That is the proposal I make to Mr. Van Biesen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u53	I suggest that we ask the question No. Mrs Matz (S). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mrs Matz on her excellent report. We have a large number of cancellations, including this afternoon because of the terrorism committee. I therefore propose that we proceed with the Members present until 12.30 p.m. and that we delete this afternoon's sitting. After all, there are a number of people on that committee, including Mrs Van Cauter. She has asked for a point to be raised, but cannot be present herself. I therefore propose that we delete this afternoon's meetings from 2 p.m. 15 and 15 p.m. 00. So we're going to move on with the attendees. The other questions will be postponed until next time. So we can finish the agenda, for the people who are here now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u54	Of course, I have no problem with us following this method, as I always follow when you make a proposal. Can we at least find a time for next week when we are discussing these priority legislative proposals? I suggest that we discuss the legislative proposals first and then the questions afterwards. After all, there are a lot of questions, but by asking questions for a whole day, more questions are provoked. That is why I propose that we make the legislative proposals first. If there's time left, we'll deal with the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u55	We'll see if we can do it next week. After all, we also have the Panama Papers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u56	Since yesterday, we know it's only about very few papers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u57	I leave that conclusion entirely on your behalf, as the first Vice-President of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u58	Mr President, should I understand that only the committee meeting scheduled from 2.15 p.m. to 3 p.m. is cancelled? Or do I have to understand that the 3 p.m. commission is also being abolished?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u59	The 3 p.m. committee meeting is also cancelled. It's about legislative proposals that Parliaments have asked me to deal with. Then they call me to tell me they can't come because they're on another committee. That's how we can keep going.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u60	Mr Van Biesen has been asking for a long time to bring forward these priority legislative proposals. Who exactly is absent this afternoon?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u61	Mrs Van Cauter cannot be here, and there is also a member of our group who has been prevented, namely Mr Deseyn. It's all good for me. However, to sit here with three men to perform some sort of ritual, I don't think that would be helpful.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u62	Can we not, because the Committee on Panama Papers is always meeting on Tuesday afternoon, clear Tuesday morning for the legislative proposals?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u63	We'll see if we can set that up next week. However, I think we should continue to work now, unless you absolutely want to be on a committee with two men at 15:00, which cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u64	Can you assure me that we can vote next week?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u65	We'll try.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u66	Tuesday morning could be for me, but then we'll have to stop at 11:30.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u67	It's about the legislative proposals. We'll see how we do it best. I see Mrs. Matz has come in.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u68	Mr President, for your good information, as I see you like geography: Aywaille is a municipality of 12,000 inhabitants 25 km south of Liège, on the border with the province of Luxembourg. It is the birthplace of Philippe Gilbert, who lives in Remuchamps, one of the entities of the municipality of Aywaille. The inhabitants of Remuchamps are the Remucastrians and the inhabitants of Aywaille are the Aquarians.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u69	And in Remuchamps is the famous Redoute.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u70	Exactly, the Redoute coast in Remuchamps is one of the most terrible for riders on the Liège-Bastogne-Liège route. Minister, I come to my question. In Aywaille there is a finance office, a relatively recent building with an organization of the SPF currently programmed to the general satisfaction of the inhabitants of the Ourthe-Amblève, which of course exceeds the limits of the town of Aywaille. According to rumours – I hope these are rumors – this office, or at least some of its services, would be closed and relocated to Liège. In any case, that is the information we have. The municipal council in Aywaille voted unanimously about ten days ago to request the continuation of this finance office in Aywaille. I think you've had it since then. Minister, I would like to reassure, or not, the people of the Ourthe-Amblève. Do you confirm this closure? Would it be part of a general plan to close other FPS Finance offices? If so, is the closure of Aywaille's office planned for January 1, 2017, as rumor suggests? If so, is it a general closure of the office or only some services? I hear some services could stay. In the case of a partial closure, can you tell us exactly what services are involved in a relocation, if I may, to Liège? If so, how can this closure be explained as the office is widely frequented by residents who come to inquire – even if Tax-on-web is booming – about their tax returns? However, I do not know the attendance figures. Can you communicate them to me? In the event that you would tell me that this building will only house a whole part of the FPS Finances, in this case the VAT service, can you explain to me what you will do with the rest of the building, which is relatively new and well located, as evidenced by the number of parking spaces? It seems to me that we are witnessing an aberrant use of public funds. I do not hide from you my great concern about the ever-wider dismantling of public services in a region that I will call semi-rural. Some time ago, the railway line was threatened. Then it was the ticket office of the station. Now it's our finance office, even if I don't hope so. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u71	Mrs Matz, it is indeed planned to close the Aywaille building in the medium term, at the latest in 2018. This closure will take place within the framework of the 2018 Infrastructure Plan currently under discussion with trade union organisations. The building will be completely abandoned. Heritage Documentation services will have left in July of this year as part of the reorganization of the FPS Finances. The general administration of Recovery wishes to limit the number of its locations per province as of this year and will follow this movement of centralization. The general administration of taxation, the SME administration will remain alone in Aywaille with a staff of 9 agents, which is largely insufficient to justify the maintenance of the building. The way in which the citizen contacts the FPS Finances is profoundly changing. The citizen is increasingly using technological means such as telephone, email, social media, etc. to contact us and go to offices less often. By centralizing services in large buildings located in larger municipalities and provincial cities, we can better collaborate among the different services, provide a more modern working environment, group services to citizens in one building. Similarly, downsizing is a development that must be taken into account by the CPS. There is no budgetary justification for keeping offices open where only a few officers will work. Telework will only increase. Centralizing in large buildings, makes things simpler to ensure service or permanence so that each agent can benefit from the flexibility offered. By counting the number of staff who perform telework regularly, the offices are occupied at 72%. From this point of view too, it is budgetaryly more efficient to centralize services. Finally, the average number of visitors is 500 per month for all the services still in place in the building at present: 419 in December 2015, 471 in January 2016, 641 in February 2016 and 417 in March 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u72	You said "Hawai" and it's Aywaille. Fortunately, there is a little bit of humor, because what the minister has just described is completely beyond me, considering that there are 500 people per month who attend the various services that are still present. It's not nothing. I'm asking myself some serious questions. There won't be any service in the future. This will be done in phases. What are you going to do with this building? It's really a question we haven't thought about. This building is here. They'll be "unnecessary jobs" that we've seen before. In a few years, we will be shown that this building was, in fact... etc. It has been largely well equipped, if I may, to the general satisfaction of the agents and citizens who frequent it. I am bewildered by these words: it would be to better collaborate, it would provide more services to the citizens, because we are going to centralise in Liège. In this case, at home, it is in Liège. That means 25 or 30 km from the people who frequent him. There will necessarily be fewer services: we have to stop. If everyone goes to Liège, we'll be served less quickly. A petition is beginning to circulate. I am really asking the minister to reconsider his position. We're in the relentless pursuit of the same things. We have the impression that when we talk about public services, it is as if we were talking about a private company: it has to be managed differently, it has to be streamlined. We are talking about a service to the public, we are not talking about a private company, and they are not the same criteria of choice, even though the public and the "clients", as you like to call them, are present, since they are 500 per month. I very much regret, and I really hope that by adopting a more comprehensive reasoning, you will see this completely absurd decision again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u73	Minister, I have a whole series of questions, of which I would be happy to translate some into written questions if I can get the answer today. Questions Nos 11122, 11326, 11397, 11399 and 11401.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u74	That's noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u75	Mr. Chairman, the minister is clearly interested in cycling, as he is familiar with the Redoute coast. That was the only positive element of your response to Ms.Matz, Minister. I'd like to see if you're also interested in football, since I'm going to ask you a question about the imposition of referees. Article 171 of the Income Tax Code 1992 provides that "professional income may be taxed separately at the rate of 33 % for professional income paid or allocated for a gross amount not exceeding EUR 12,300, which is the basic amount, per taxable period, to the arbitrators of sports competitions for their arbitral benefits, provided that they receive from another professional activity, professional income which reaches a total gross taxable amount higher than the total gross taxable amount of the professional income received from all of their aforementioned activities in the sport sector". In other words, someone who works as a supplementary arbitrator will have his or her professional income from arbitration taxed at 33% for an amount up to €18,780. On the other hand, a person who is a principal arbitrator and has income from a supplementary activity will be taxed as a whole. There are, therefore, situations in which persons who practice the profession of arbitrator and earn the same income are taxed differently depending on whether or not the income earned as an arbitrator is greater than the other professional income earned. Minister, I wanted to draw your attention to this situation. From the moment that two people receiving the same level of professional income are not taxed in the same way, can we not speak of discriminatory treatment? Would you be in favour of a change in legislation to correct this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u76	The next speaker is the cyclist.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u77	Mr. President, it's been a while. Mr Dispa, these two persons will be treated the same if they fulfil the conditions laid down in Article 171(1). The first tranche of €12,300 will therefore also be taxed at 33%. What exceeds this amount will be taxed at the overall rate. I must tell you that the 12,300 euros I have just mentioned, indexed for the 2017 tax year, will amount to 18,890 euros. Where one of these persons does not meet the conditions mentioned, it can no longer be a supplementary activity and the overall rate is therefore applicable. The purpose of the separate taxation of 33 per cent of the income of the attendants, trainers and arbitrators is that volunteers' allowances, which are the backbone of the sport sector, are no longer imposed overall with the income they obtain from their main professional activity. Arbitrators who do not meet the conditions can hardly be considered volunteers and are therefore not covered here. I therefore do not intend to amend the relevant legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u78	Thank you, minister, for these elements of the answer, which will hardly satisfy the arbitrators who had drawn my attention to this problem. My faith, you have argued your position on the basis of the analysis you have kindly developed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u79	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Hufkens' 11160 is deleted. After all, Mrs Hufkens is not present. Mrs. Smaers is not here. Her question No. 11168 is therefore deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u80	Minister, you have undoubtedly also taken note of the annual report, which the Federal Ombudsman has presented here in Parliament and in which he has devoted a whole chapter to family taxation. More specifically, he looked at the tax regulations relating to children. He also made a number of recommendations. In response, your administration has formulated a number of possible legislative changes. Among other things, the idea of allowing children in tax co-parenting to be taken into account half of each parent's income, including, where appropriate, allowances between two amounts. The tax credit for dependent children shall be granted only to the parent who has the dependent child. The maximum amount of the tax credit is limited according to the number of dependent children. According to your administration, the amendment of the scheme, whereby the parent who receives half of the tax-free allowance would also be eligible for the tax credit for dependent children, is technically feasible. Mr Minister, first of all, how do you feel about the suggestion made by your administration that children in tax co-parenthood should be taken into account by half of each parent? Do you have a view of the budgetary impact of the proposed scheme? Secondly, what is your position on the other proposal, namely the proposal on the amendment of the scheme, whereby the parent who receives half of the allowance on the duty-free allowance would also be eligible for the tax credit for dependent children? Do you also have a view of the budgetary impact of this proposed scheme?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u81	Mr Vanvelthoven, we have the various slopes examined. Unfortunately, I do not yet have the budgetary impact of every slope. I would therefore suggest that we return to that question at the moment when I have the figures. I don't have an indication of the time either. However, I will remind you that we would like these budgetary estimates to be made quickly. It does not make sense to have a discussion if we do not know the budgetary consequences of each of the cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u82	Minister, you did not say it in so many words, but I understand that you are looking at the proposals with some goodwill. That is why I also asked the specific question: what would be the budgetary impact of one or the other? Mr President, I will return to the dossier. If the Minister has the figures, I can assume that he will simply deliver them to the committee so that we can see how the committee can work on them in the legislative area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u83	Mr President, Minister, Nemea is not yet unknown to us. Last year the bank attracted massive attention when advertising with a five-year term account with a stunt interest rate of 4 %, while other banks could at that time offer a maximum of 1.5 %. Today, of course, interest rates are much lower. Often people say that something is too good to be true, and usually it is. The bank Nemea was placed under supervision last week, after the European Central Bank and the Maltese regulator identified serious shortcomings in the application of the rules. A temporary director was appointed. The Belgian savers who placed their money with Nemea are, of course, not covered by the Belgian deposit guarantee but by the Maltese system. This covers, as across Europe, deposits up to EUR 100 000 per customer per bank. Malta is not directly the largest country in the European Union. The question is therefore whether such a country could be able to cover the deposits of all customers of banks such as Nemea, and how savers could avail themselves of that guarantee in Malta. It is not obvious to visit a local office. I would therefore like to ask you a few questions, Minister. In what way was Nemea's promotion in Belgium controlled by the Belgian regulator? What role and possibilities did the Belgian regulator have and have as non-systemic foreign banks, which are not subject to the supervision of the ECB but from the local supervisor, to collect savings from the Belgian market? How can we keep an eye on these things? How can this be proactively and preventively communicated? How can action be taken here? A high interest rate at a low risk, of course that is not possible. Everyone knows that even a little bit. In what way does the FSMA raise public awareness about this? There are websites such as wikifin and so on, on which there are a number of basic things to read. One might be a little more specific. The two shareholders of Nemea are ex-toplovers of Kaupthing Bank. That didn't turn out to be much of a success story before. We even know a duped ex-premier. Does the Belgian government or supervisor have information on how the Maltese regulator plays its role in carrying out a fit-and-clean policy and prudential supervision in such cases? I suppose an ex-driver of Kauphting shouldn't exactly be considered fit and clean. Since Nemea is non-systemic, supervision is not the responsibility of the ECB but of the Maltese government. What kind of inspection does the Belgian regulator have when such a bank conducts a remarkable campaign in Belgium? Fourthly, what additional possibilities and tasks could you give Belgian supervisors to prevent such cases? What proposals can and will you make at European level? Fifth and finally, do you see any possibility of adding a mandatory information clause on the value of the guarantee and its provider when opening a savings account? Of course, this should not be another leaf with fine print, which one hardly reads. A simple indication might help.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u84	Mr President, Mr Dedecker, as far as your first question is concerned, Nemea is, as we know, a Maltese bank that can provide banking services in Belgium on the basis of the European law principle of freedom to provide services, including the collection of retail deposits. On the basis of this principle, the supervision of these products is observed by the home Member State supervisor and not by the host Member State supervisor. At the time of the launch of the relevant term account, the FSMA did not have any powers over these products. As for your second question, the FSMA provides general advice on savings and investment products on the website wikifin.be. In several places on the website, the FSMA consistently points to the need to be vigilant when offering high returns, or at least abnormally high returns. In addition, the FSMA on the wikifin.be website for regulated savings books as well as for forward accounts elaborates on the risk of bankruptcy of the financial institution receiving the deposit. Wikifin explicitly states that a foreign deposit guarantee scheme may apply for savings deposits abroad, and therefore advises the customer to consider which guarantee scheme is actually applicable. As far as your third question is concerned, in the European Union, the system of home country control, where the supervision of institutions operating through free services, or through branches, is exercised by the home supervisor, is based on mutual trust between home and host. As a Maltese bank, Nemea Bank is also a member of the Maltese Deposit Guarantee Scheme, the Malta Depositor Compensation Scheme, and thus not of the Belgian Deposit Guarantee Scheme or that of countries in which it operates through free provision of services. As a host authority, the National Bank has no appreciation margin on the possibility of an EU credit institution to provide a range of banking services on the basis of, once again, the free provision of services. However, if the NBB is aware that Nemea Bank does not meet or threatens to comply with its prudential obligations arising from the current banking regulation, it may appeal to the Maltese regulator, which, moreover, to my explicit question was actually done in spring 2015. It is important to note that the supervision of a small bank, which is called a less significant institution or LSI in the ECB jargon, is exercised by the national supervisory authority, but the ECB is and remains competent to withdraw the authorisation in accordance with, of course, Maltese law in this case. The ECB shall also have the power, if it deems it appropriate, to take over supervision from the national supervisory authority if, for example, it would not respond appropriately. In the framework of the Single Supervisory Mechanism (SSM), there is a monitoring by the ECB of the supervision of LSI debt securities and the ECB also has a number of tools to achieve the discipline of supervisors through powers for granting and withdrawing licences, but above all through the possibility to take over supervision. Within the SPS, there is, of course, the possibility to identify problems and to draw attention to certain practices that raise questions. This escalation route has also been followed by the National Bank in the case of Nemea. Addressing the Nemea case, including by the NCB-NBB at the ECB, has led to the establishment of a first joint inspection, led by the ECB. As a result of this inspection, an initial set of measures was imposed. The NBB and the FSMA issued a press release in June 2015 to warn the public about the risks associated with the practices of such banks, i.e. institutions operating through free service in Europe and collecting deposits at abnormal interest rates. This press release was also delivered to the ECB. In March 2016, a follow-up inspection was carried out by the ECB and the Maltese regulator, with the supervisory measures that will result in your question, including the appointment of a temporary administrator. It can be concluded that the mechanism involving the ECB in the supervision of LSI debt securities for the purpose of providing support for the conduct of on-site inspections, the formulation of recommendations to the supervisor and the like, before a decision to take over the supervision has to be taken and before the withdrawal of the authorisation, has functioned effectively. As far as your fourth question is concerned, there is a clear abuse of the European passport through the free provision of services. Without questioning this fundamental right within the EU, measures can be taken at European level to prevent such abuses. I am thinking in particular of providing a better framework at European level for the free provision of services, in particular for small banks which have a significant share of their turnover on the basis of the free provision of services and have limited home activities. Passporting should not be used by institutions without a real home market, which was not initially the intention of the regime of free service. As far as the consumer panel is concerned, reference can be made to the obligation to provide information under the Deposit Guarantee Directive, in particular Article 16 (2) which provides that the consumer must be provided with information on the applicable deposit guarantee scheme and gives his explicit agreement in this respect. The draft law of 17 February 2016 transposing Directive 2014/49/EU on deposit guarantee schemes and various provisions explicitly entrusts the supervision of these measures to the FSMA. Implementing measures for this point will be followed. Fifth, and finally, under the deposit guarantee directive in force, prospective savers must be informed in a comprehensive form about the deposit guarantee scheme in which the credit institution participates, including the amount for which the deposit securities are covered. This must be done before the deposit contract is concluded. From the transposition of the above mentioned Deposit Guarantee Directive, candidate savers will obtain this information in a standardised document. The depositor will have to acknowledge receipt of that information. Existing depositors will be informed of these points through their account statements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u85	Thank you, Minister, for this very detailed answer and for your very harsh condemnation when you talk about abuse of the European passport. Your position in that is clear. I am therefore looking forward to initiatives in this area, to work on this at European level. I am also looking forward to implementing the draft law on the deposit guarantee scheme two months ago. You mentioned, among other things, the clarity of the amount covered by the deposit guarantee scheme. I think that the amount in question is slightly less relevant than the country's repayment capacity. The amount is EUR 100 000 throughout the European Union. The question is, of course, whether the country in question is in a position to fulfil those obligations. At the moment that is still a national matter. In a country like Malta, this is slightly less obvious than in a country like Germany. It is rather about the relationship between guaranteed deposits versus a country's domestic product, which will be more decisive. Perhaps a clearer indication is possible in this respect. I also note the proactive measures taken by our National Bank and by yourself. You say that the National Bank took action on your initiative as early as spring 2015. We can only appreciate that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u86	Mr President, I should like to put a question to the President-in-Office. 11202. Question No 11273 and Question No 11274 are actually a few exercises that I have done because it is an examination period. I will get it from you in writing, Minister. Debates of the European Parliament 11202, however, requires a little more explanation. It concerns the transposition of the CRD IV/Basel III rules in relation to banking supervision. On 28 April 2016, the European Commission failed Belgium on the transposition of the CRD IV rules relating to banking supervision as well as the BRRD Directive on bank resolution in failure. As regards the CRD Directive, the Commission invites Belgium to fully implement the application of EU rules on prudential requirements for banks and investment firms. For example, the Capital Requirements Directive should be implemented. This Directive lays down the prudential requirements for financial institutions established in the European Union. In particular, it lays down rules for the authorisation and supervision of financial institutions, supervisory cooperation, risk management, corporate governance and capital buffers, i.e. the capital to be held by financial institutions in addition to other minimum capital requirements to be met. The Directive forms part of a broader package of measures to strengthen the banking system in the European Union after the financial crisis. This package also includes Regulation No. 575/2013, also known as the Capital Requirements Regulation, which lays down how much capital institutions must hold in order to cover potential losses and which includes rules on liquidity, leverage and disclosure. Member States had to comply with the Directive by 31 December 2013. However, to date, Belgium, Latvia, the Netherlands and Slovakia have not fully transposed this Directive into national law. Some provisions, mainly those relating to the discretionary powers of the national competent authorities, still lack. The Commission shall make its request in the form of a reasoned opinion. In the absence of notification within two months of the measures transposing that Directive in full, the Commission may decide to refer Belgium, Latvia, the Netherlands and Slovakia to the Court of Justice of the European Union. The second part of my question concerns the application of the rules on the recovery and resolution of banks, but I am going to confine myself to asking the questions, because I think you know very well what this is about. Can you clarify for the CRD IV Directive which specific provisions of the Directive have not yet been transposed into national law? Why have these parts not yet been transposed into national law? What discretionary powers are we talking about? What gaps is the European Commission talking about? Have you already taken concrete initiatives to overcome these gaps? For the BRRD directive, can you clarify why the transposition into national law has not yet taken place? What are the difficulties there? I'd like a brief motivation. Will Belgium be able to meet the European Commission's demand to respond to the request within two months? If not, how do you estimate the concrete consequences?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u87	The CRD IV Directive applies to both credit institutions and investment firms providing investment services and investment activities which may only be performed in Belgium by stock exchange companies. For credit institutions, CRD IV has already been fully transposed into Belgian law by law of 25 April 2014 on the statute and supervision of credit institutions. The same conversion still needs to be made for stock exchange companies. However, the statute and supervision of stock exchange companies is not only governed by the CRD IV Directive. Certain provisions relating to licensing, certain organisational aspects and the freedom to provide services should also take into account the new Directive 2014/65/EU, known as MiFID 2. The BRRD directive, which is the second part of your question, and the directive on financial conglomerates, the so-called FICOD 1, must also be transposed for stock exchange companies. Stock exchange companies are currently covered by the Act of 6 April 1995 on the statute and supervision of investment firms. In view of the simultaneous transposition of the abovementioned Directives and in order to take account of the division of supervisory powers between the National Bank and the FSMA, as resulting from Twin Peaks, the Government intends to replace the Law of 6 April 1995 by two laws. First, a law adding a new book XII to the law of 25 April 2014, dedicated exclusively to stock exchange companies. The provisions transposing, inter alia, CRD IV and BRRD for credit institutions will, as far as possible, be made applicable to stock exchange companies, taking into account, however, the specific characteristics of stock exchange companies. Secondly, a law providing, on the one hand, a general framework for access to the company for investment firms, whether it be a stock exchange company or companies for asset management and investment advice, and, on the other hand, the status and supervision of companies for asset management and investment advice. Two preliminary draft laws were prepared and sent to the Finance Inspectorate for advice. First of all, it is appropriate to state that the vast majority of the BRRD recommendations have already been transposed into Belgian law. The BRRD Directive was partially transposed through the aforementioned law of 25 April 2014. However, that law was based on a draft BRRD directive, most of which did not give rise to political discussion between the Council and the European Parliament. The provisions for which an agreement existed at that time were therefore transposed into the Law of 25 April 2014. This concerned in particular recovery and resolution plans and resolution tools related to individual credit institutions. Thus, a significant part of the BRRD Directive had already been transposed into Belgian law before transposition into other Member States. Other provisions of the BRRD Directive were not transposed until later by the following acts on the basis of special powers of attorney granted in the Law of 25 April 2014. The Royal Decree of 18 December 2015 amending the Law of 25 April 2014 as regards the bail-in instrument and the Royal Decree of 26 December 2015 amending the Law of 25 April 2014 as regards the recovery and resolution of groups. Two smaller shutters of the BRRD Directive are currently to be transposed. Firstly, the provisions on the provision of financial support within a group and the provisions on the financing of resolution measures, the latter through the resolution fund established in Belgium. A draft law to that effect was already adopted by the Council of Ministers and an opinion from the Council of State was received on 27 April 2016. Second, the application of the provisions of the Law of 25 April 2014 on recovery and resolution of stock exchange companies. In the meantime, a preliminary draft law has been sent to the Treasury Inspectorate for advice, as I have just indicated. The European Commission was informed of these initiatives. The transposition process has mainly taken more time for two reasons. Firstly, because it was chosen to integrate the provisions on recovery and resolution into the law of 25 April 2014 and not, as in some other Member States, into a separate law. Secondly, because the transposition is carried out partly by special power decision and partly by law. This approach ensures a better substantive alignment of the resolution provisions with the prudential aspect of the Law of 25 April 2014, but is more complex and time-consuming from a legislative point of view. Every effort has been made to ensure that the draft legislation transposing the CRD IV Directive and the BRRD Directive are adopted as soon as possible, if possible before the parliamentary recess. In any event, the committee will be kept informed of the progress of the work. It is expected that the Commission will not take any further steps provided that the ongoing legislative process does not lead to unacceptable delays.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u88	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed answer. It is important to clarify where we stand on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u89	Questions Nos 11273 and 11274 by Mr Van Biesen are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u90	I propose that questions Nos 11276 and 11277 by Mr Vanvelthoven should be put together.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u91	Mr President, I will put my two questions at the same time, although it concerns two different issues, which are of legal importance. Minister, some adjustments were made at the end of 2015 in the context of the tax shift to the caiman tax. You will recall that we supported these adjustments, because a number of loopholes of the caiman tax were closed. In December 2015, Parliament approved, inter alia, the extension of the scope of the Cayman tax in plenary. Entities and companies the rights of which are held by one person or more persons linked to each other, as appropriate, by separate compartment, are considered as legal arrangements by the Income Tax Code since those adjustments. In practice, the shares or compartments of a Luxembourg SICAV are often held by connected persons. The legislator's intention was clear and identifies all funds: private, public and institutional, with or without a European passport, within or outside the EEA, as soon as they are not collective. That is how our group and at least I read the amendment adopted at that time and approved and supported it on the basis of that reading. That is also the analysis of a number of tax experts. In my question I refer to an analysis by Benoît Philippart de Foy and by Antoine Dayez in an article published last month under the title "Tax Cairo: application aux fonds döffinvestissement et aux Sicav-FIS dédiés. Minister, I will not quote from the article. However, I would have liked to hear from you the following. Will you confirm that reading of the Cayman tax, which is given by the tax experts in that article, as well as, of course, the obligation to report? In other words, do you consider that the Cayman tax and the reporting obligation apply to all ICB debt securities and the compartments of the ICB debt securities, whether public, institutional or private? Would you still read the law differently, do you think that the law should be amended to bring it into line with the legislator's objective, as voted here in December 2015? In that case, will you then recover the caiman tax under the next programme law? My second question concerns the still present loophole in the caiman tax, which was also published in the press last week. The caiman tax looks through offshore constructions, such as a Panamanian company, and thus directly taxes the owner of the construction in Belgium. The viewing tax applies only if the Belgian taxpayer participates directly in the offshore construction. The caiman tax can thus be avoided relatively easily by using an intermediate structure. Blijkbaar is de Luxemburgse SOPARFI, Société de participations Financières, een populaire tussenstructuur. Professor François Parisis and tax attorney Philippe have referred to this hall several times. Tax attorney Gert Goyvaerts has given a concrete example in the recent article "De caaimantaks," a critical consideration. I'd like to quote that. If a trust is declared by a trustee (i.e. not a settlement but a declaration of trust) then this trust establishes a BVI Limited. The taxpayer then transfers a portfolio to the trustee who in turn transfers it to the account of the BVI Limited. It goes without saying that both the trustee and the BVI Limited are both legal arrangements as defined in Article 2 (1) 13° of the Income Tax Code. However, the transferor is not a founder according to the first indent of that article, because it did not set up either the trust or the BVI Limited. However, although the second indent does apply to the trust, this does not apply to the BVI Limited where the assets are located. In other words, the taxpayer can only be regarded as the founder of the trust, but not of the BVI Limited. According to several tax lawyers, such double structures are more rule than exception. Typically the largest and the oldest abilities are structured that way. So the caiman tax doesn't apply. It is true that you referred to this as well, I thought it was an anti-abuse provision in the legislative text, but it obviously has no control over past legal acts and does not allow us to look through the intermediary companies. I would therefore urge, Minister, that the caiman tax on this matter be restored as soon as possible and that it be closed. We will, of course, support that. Hence my simple question as to whether you are prepared to deal with this in the next programme law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u92	Mr Vanvelthoven, your first thought consisted of two questions. The purpose of the amendment in question is indeed to target both private and public and institutional institutions which are in fact privately managed. That's very clear. As for your second question, the Cayman tax will certainly be evaluated at the end of the year. That's what I've always said, and we will. If this evaluation points out that additional adjustments are appropriate, I will not fail to propose to the government that those changes should also be made effectively. You will remember very vividly that we did so at the end of last year when it appeared at some point that there was still a gap in it. As far as your second question is concerned, with extensive quotes by Mr Goyvaerts, the problem of double structures is, of course, well known. I should like to point out in all modesty here that it is best not to lose sight of the neutrality of the source when quoting authors. I mean that some authors can benefit from the existence of certain loopholes and from a minimal interpretation of the possibilities of the caiman tax. In addition, the published articles should be considered with the necessary nuance. This is in line with the previous point. Take the example given, where a trust is established and this trust itself creates a legal entity with the aim of managing the goods initially transferred into the trust. My administration, whose opinion I share entirely, believes that the structure described falls within the scope of the Cayman tax. It would also completely ignore the aim of the caiman tax if the mere accumulation of legal constructions would simply allow for the avoidance of the browsing load. With regard to the examples you quoted, you yourself have already considered them, the application of the general anti-abuse clause of Article 344 (1) of the WIB 92 should not be overlooked. Nevertheless, all this does not alter the fact that other structures could possibly be developed, and I would almost dare say that this will certainly happen, which will have the effect of avoiding the caiman tax. My administration follows these developments closely on my explicit question. Should legal action prove necessary, the necessary proposals will be formulated quickly and effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u93	Minister, I have a few reservations. Of course, these tax lawyers have their own agenda. Let's get that straight. That is why we are afraid when they identify certain gaps in the legislation, when they would rather have an interest in not identifying them. I note that according to your records the described construction and similar constructions are covered by the Cayman tax. Mr Minister, can you give us the legal basis for this? How did your administration come up with that? It's not without interest. The anti-abuse clause to which you refer cannot, in my view, apply to past constructions. The caiman tax is of a later date. So I do not see how the anti-abuse clause can apply to earlier constructions. I assume that you monitor these other techniques and that you play fast on the ball and inform Parliament when techniques come to light. If there are holes, they need to be closed as soon as possible. I would therefore like to know why, according to your administration, this is not a gap but is still covered by the Cayman tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u94	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you again about this financial transaction tax (FTT). We come back to it every time we discover something new about it. The negotiations, which started in 2013, seem to give you as little enthusiasm as ever. We have asked for hearings on this subject, and that of the European Commission was particularly interesting last time. You recently told the British Chamber of Commerce that Belgium could leave the negotiations because this 0.1% tax would put too much pressure on the financing of the public debt. However, the Commission representative felt that, for them, there was little justification for fear of the risk of impact on public debt. It also explained that Belgium wanted 80 per cent of derivatives that were even directly related to public debt to be withdrawn. Clearly, the Commission believes that you want to go far too far. Minister, can you explain to us the situation and the reasons why you made this request? While Belgium had always been the strong defender of the TTF before, under the former government, we are surprised by what we have said. Can you, then, explain the government's position on this issue again? Does the government intend to continue to negotiate the introduction of a financial transaction tax? You regularly mention the risk of implementing this tax on the real economy. To this, the European Commission responds that any tax has an impact but that it also has a redistributive role. She adds that a labour tax is much more damaging than it is to the real economy. As a result, a TTF that would reduce labour tax would be positive for the real economy. What do you think of this reasoning? The Commission also says that primary market products are not concerned. Financing the real economy therefore does not seem to have an impact. Finally, the Commission explains that in countries where such a tax exists, there has been no loss of volume. The representative of the Commission concluded by saying that Belgium's position had changed. For us, it is worrying and regrettable that we are no longer in the lead in this area. So, Minister, can you tell us what the next steps in the negotiations are?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u95	Minister, I agree with Mr Crusnière's question, but I would also like to know why there is such a rapid change of position. According to Bloomberg, you said at a certain point that Belgium would leave the negotiating table, while Belgium, according to a Belga message from a few days later, remains at the negotiating table. That seems to me to be a very fast change of position. What's the explanation for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u96	I will begin with the latter, the so-called position change. My position, and the extension of the Belgian Government, is what it has always been: Belgium, in accordance with the government agreement, continues to negotiate a possible introduction of the FTT. Also in accordance with the coalition agreement, this is nothing new at all. However, the FTT has to meet a number of conditions. In the meantime, the conditions set out in the government agreement are well known: the effects on the real economy, the effects on insurance companies and pension funds and the liquidity of the debt. The parameters and the quantities are known. As the Debt Agency clearly stated in the Committee, the Financial Transaction Tax, as it now stands, will have a negative impact on the financing and, above all, on the financing of Belgian public debt. This argument is mainly based on the fact that investors do not necessarily have to buy debt from smaller countries if they wish to invest in euro area government paper. The importance of the distinction between large and small countries is very important in the dossier, as the spokesman of the Belgian Debt Agency in committee clearly stressed. We must not be under any illusions: when investors invest in the euro area, they will often do so through larger Member States. Moreover, if the paper of smaller Member States becomes even more expensive, investors will quickly drop the paper of those smaller Member States. Moreover, our country is facing relatively high public debt in the context of the euro area. Any change in the cost of debt can therefore have a major impact on the taxpayer. It is up to me as a competent minister to ensure that our debt is not only manageable, but remains financially viable at all times. The government agreement is also very clear on the effect of the FTT on the real economy. I quote: "The government will argue that this tax should focus on equities and derivatives of a speculative nature, and that real economic activity and transactions in pension funds and insurance companies, with regard to the coverage of their assets and relating to public effects, should remain preserved." It is therefore also this position that I have always defended and that I continue to defend. Anything that may have an impact on the financing of real economic activities must be rigorously analysed in order to avoid possible negative effects of a possible tax on financial transactions. Finally, I would like to return to the statements made by Mrs Maggiulli of the European Commission, who stated in committee on 13 April that the introduction of an FTT does not have a negative impact on trade volumes, as this has been assessed. In this context, I would like to mention a real life example, namely Sweden between 1984 and 1991. Sweden then introduced an FTT. According to data from the Swedish central bank, this tax resulted in the average turnover on the Swedish stock exchange falling by 30%, the trade in the eleven main shares fell by 60%, the trade in bonds, bond-based derivatives and bond options decreased by 85,98 and 100 %, respectively, and only 5% of the expected revenue was realised. An additional effect was that in the first six years of the tax, more than 50% of Swedish stock trading had moved to London. Finally, the Swedish central bank notes that speculative transactions are likely to increase as a result of that tax, because trade moved to non-taxable shares and countries where the tax did not apply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u97	Minister, thank you for your answers. I repeat that for our group, this must remain one of the priorities. You didn't answer me on the calendar. I imagine the meetings will resume and continue. We will therefore pay attention to the continuation of the negotiations and we will continue to question you on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u98	I would add that a meeting is planned for ECOFIN on 25 May.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-05-18-54-commissie-ic421x.u99	Of course, I was pleased that, as I interpret it, some coalition partners have called the Minister to order. I have long been convinced that he is a very cool lover of the financial transaction tax. I am pleased that partners have called him to order. With regard to the increased cost of debt management, I would like to point out to the Minister once again that a study by the European Commission makes it clear that debt management is going to cost EUR 1 more, but that revenues are going to increase by EUR 3 for Belgium. Minus one and plus three is still plus two. However, the problem for the Minister and his party is that the 2 euros must be coughed up by the banks. We think that is normal, because we see a transaction tax as a means of asking the banking sector to contribute to the social costs caused by the banking crisis. The Minister is not convinced of this, nor is his party. The claim that the introduction of an FTT will cost Belgium is incorrect. On the contrary, it will bring money.
