ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u2	As agreed at the Conference of Presidents, we begin with the questions for the Minister of Finance. He should then be given the opportunity to attend a Eurogroup meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u3	Colleagues, I ask you to have some respect for the colleagues who ask their question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u4	Mr President, Minister, what was my satisfaction on Monday when I discovered the decision of the European Commission in relation to the excess profit rules? I have here the statement of the Commissioner in charge of the case which considers that the Belgian scheme for the exemption of surplus profits, the excess profit ruling, is illegal. The European Commission is ordering the recovery of approximately 700 million euros from 35 multinationals. We can't be more explicit. This system of excess profit ruling, which we have been denouncing for a long time, is unfair to the large number of those who pay their taxes properly. I am thinking of SMEs and artisans. It is expensive: a minimum of 700 million euros! It gives an absolutely deplorable picture of our tax system. Your responsibility for the past is obviously limited. They are others that have imagined the system and that have not changed it over the years, but your responsibility for the future is total. After I was pleased to read the European Commission, I was not disappointed to read you, Mr Finance Minister. You said you wanted to appeal this decision. You have said you refuse to recover these huge amounts and you are not willing to have a transparent, effective tax system that ensures that all pay taxes, including the multinationals involved in tax dumping. Are you going, like your predecessors, to lie down in front of multinationals or are you going to contribute to a more efficient and fairer tax system? I ask you to give up this appeal and accept the decision of the European Commission. Will you accept this decision from the European Commission? I ask you to ensure that these illegal aids are recovered. Will you implement what is necessary to recover these 700 million at a minimum? Will you bring this issue to your European Finance Ministers for more efficient and fairer tax systems?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Commission's decision to label the overprofit scheme as prohibited state aid is no surprise at all. We have already heard the OECD and the European Commission in committee. We have discussed it many times. Action is taking place at international level. Think of the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting of BEPS actions. The European Commission's rulings should be more transparent. There are initiatives by the European Parliament; the TAXE working group has come here and has said that there must be an end to the erosion of the taxable base and the transfer of profits. There must be a clear directive of fairness in competitiveness, including vis-à-vis multinationals. The scheme dates back to 2004, but it is clear that the context has changed completely. Now, following the views of the OECD and the European Commission, there is a completely new application of the concept of state aid. In the future, we will have to review the legislation on excess profit rulings. By the way, it's already been suspended. That will therefore not be a point of discussion, because it will never be accepted at European level. Of course, a number of rulings have been made. I have a number of questions about that. Firstly, were the rulings notified to the European Commission in 2004? I hear that they have never been notified, hence the major problems of recovery. Secondly, recovery must be done through the Member States. Will you recover the unpaid corporation tax? There is a risk that the claims for damages could be greater than the recovery of the 700 million if they were to work retroactively. Is the retro activity playing? There is also a system of statute of limitations. Thirdly, will the Belgian Government bring an action before the Court of Justice or will it bring proceedings?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u6	Mr President, Minister, an Italian newspaper headlines: "How and why Belgium has become a tax haven for multinationals." The diplomatic world is not left behind: "Tax conditions: the Belgian model." We are being pointed out by all of Europe, and even beyond, because of our policy of making our country a tax haven for multinationals. I must admit that I am not surprised by the decision of the European Commission. Indeed, as early as 2008, in a book I had written on notional interests, I had addressed the issue of excess profit ruling, which was not yet called this. I was showing that it was a matter of replacing another measure that had been condemned by the European Union, namely the ruling infocap. This is the second time that our country has been condemned for the same provision. The origin of the law should, moreover, be investigated, since it had been voted by both the majority and the opposition without a debate, but above all because the practice diverges from the very content of the law. I am surprised by your reluctance to implement the European decision. We are witnessing a real illustration of the double standards system. When the European Union imposes austerity on us, which translates into your government's choices to postpone retirement until the age of 67 and trigger an index jump, we must follow strictly what the European Commission says. On the other hand, when it comes to attacking multinationals and simply demanding reimbursement of illegal aid, we can only note your hesitation, Minister. Are there many governments around the world that would refuse to recover 700 million euros to prefer to look for money from workers? I'll ask you two questions. Will you apply or challenge the European decision? Do you agree with me that the practice of the Anticipated Decisions Service in terms of excess profit ruling does not correspond to what is required by Article 185(2) of the Law? In other words, do you recognize that there is a gap between the content of the law and the practice of the service referred to above?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u7	Mr President, Minister, first of all I would like to correct Mr. Van Hees. In my view, the law instituting the excess profit ruling in 2004 was passed by a majority against opposition. It was at the time of a majority PS-MR, which makes me comfortable to question you. For a long time, the minister, the federal government, until recently, was quite proud to boast of the fiscal niches existing on Belgian territory and intended to accommodate multinationals. Your department itself published documents promoting Belgian specificities only in Belgium. Since the Commission's decision, however, there has been an embarrassment on your part. This decision, however, is not a surprise. It confirms the highly discriminatory nature of the scheme existing since 2004. Your embarrassment raises a question, because it is difficult for the public to understand that an amount of EUR 700 million is not actively sought by the public treasury and that you give the impression of meditating, being embarrassed and seeking arguments to ensure that, in the end, these tax gifts remain in the guise of those who have benefited from them. Seven hundred million is not nothing. In 2016, your government released an exceptional $400 million package for security issues. This gives an order of magnitude. This is a one shot. However, in relation to the dark measures and cuts already announced in the social security budget, which are still being demanded, with greater insistence, by your own party, we realize that there are double standards. When it comes to the money owed by multinationals, it is rather not, when it comes to additional efforts in the field of social security, more and more is needed. Minister, I would like to ask you specific questions. What is your official reaction, either as Minister of Finance or on behalf of the government, to the Commission's decision? Do you intend to appeal against this decision or not? Do you or do you not intend to activate the refund procedures? Do you intend, in the medium term, to adapt the legislation in order to finally restore, in the Belgian tax system, more equity between multinationals, on the one hand, and between them and small and medium-sized enterprises in our country, on the other?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for businesses in general there is only one thing worse than high taxes: insecure taxes. The system of excess profit rulings is a general system whereby companies are taxed only on the added value they create here. Any company can use that. The system was created under Verhofstadt's purple-green government. This system is now being called into question by the European Commission. It must always be possible to question a system. We are therefore cooperating in the investigation. We have worked on transparency regarding rulings. We have also worked on the automatic exchange of information in this area. We're going to get to the point, I think, an example. Putting a system into question is one thing, however, a system is completely different. It can't be! However, that is what the European Commission wants to do. It simply wants to cancel agreements made in the past and impose an invoice of EUR 700 million on companies that have correctly used a system offered to them by the then legislator, a system even promoted by the then majority. It's an invoice to companies that just invested in our country thanks to that system, who created jobs here and paid taxes here. We say of this measure: forget it, it can't be! Reclaiming that money now is pure madness. That undermines the investment climate, which undermines legal certainty, which is pure job destruction. The contrast between the aggressiveness with which the European Commission rages against Belgium and the indulgence with what is happening in Luxembourg by European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker is therefore very great, my fellow Members. Thanks to LuxLeaks, we have been given access to the excessive nature of the deals that took place there. But that's not what we're talking about. This contrast, ladies and gentlemen, affects not only the investment climate in our country, but the investment climate throughout the European Union. What country will be the next to be dealt with in this way? It is also detrimental to the credibility of the European Commission. I therefore ask you, Minister, what will you do to ensure legal certainty and the investment climate in our country? What will you do to guarantee the jobs? Will you appeal to the European Court of Justice? In what way can Belgium, as a small country, continue to make the difference and remain attractive to investment vis-à-vis the large countries, with their large market, which initiated the procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u9	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important dossier. I think it's time to do a conscience check. My party has been quoted in the newspapers. Colleagues, there have been three hearings with the ruling committee in the Chamber. There are two parties who, through Mr Gilkinet and myself, have raised the problem of the over-profit-making situation here. I'll give you a quote from the 2011 hearing. I quote myself: "This practice could pose problems under the European state aid rules." I got that from a report from 2011. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, if you plow through the three reports, you will not hear a single critical word from the majority parties about the over-profit rotation. On the contrary, some fellow Members defended the system by hand and tooth. I am giving a second point of conscientious objection. I now turn to the Minister of Finance. The ruling service has always been a competence of the Minister of Finance. They're looking at the sp.a. Minister, I ask you whether it is correct or not that the BBI, which is under the responsibility of the Secretary of State for the fight against fraud, has stopped excess profit rulings between 2011 and 2014. I would like an answer from you to that. It has already been said, Minister, that you cannot be accused of the past. Now, however, it is your responsibility to decide what happens to the EUR 700 million. If the Commission had condemned the Belgian State to give 700 million to the companies, then, knowing you and your party, I do not doubt that this would be carried out for a second. Now that the Commission condemns Belgium and says that the companies must put 700 million in the state treasury, I think you have doubts about your initial reactions, Minister. Minister, we ask you to implement the European Commission's decision, if only because of fiscal justice. We cannot go on like the government, which grabs the little ones and leaves the big players untouched, and who is afraid of pulling on the arms of the multinationals. Public opinion will not accept that, I warn you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u10	Mr President, Minister, Mr Van der Maelen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put the dossier in the right perspective. The system of excess profit rulings has been in place since 2005. Since then, every government that has borne responsibility has either tolerated the excess profit rulings or, in other words, has co-supported them. That was true for the Verhofstadt Government, for the Leterme Government and the Van Rompuy Government, and let us also be honest with the Di Rupo Government. In other words, the system of excess profit rulings bore the approval of the Chamber and of many government members. It's important to focus on that. However, it is also true that the system has collided on the foundations of corporate tax legislation. It is therefore right to ask whether we can maintain the system. Or should we not urgently look for new methods in order to safeguard two fundamentals? On the one hand, we must ensure that multinationals stay here and choose Belgium as the location for their decision-making power. We can do this by offering incentives, from the creation of coordination centres to the notional income deduction. On the other hand, Europe's remark is justified. The system runs counter to our corporate tax laws and does not comply with the obligations of most of the employers and SMEs, which are not exempted from taxes. The system has indeed gone a little wrong: in particular, the excess profit tax has been set far too high. The European Commission notes that in certain cases 90% of the profits of some companies will be exempt from any tax in the future. That is why I have a few specific questions. We're bumping into the limit. The situation cannot last. Firstly, what steps will you take at European level? What's your timeline? How do you and the government see the further developments in the file? Secondly, the companies that have obtained such rulings in recent years have, of course, done so with the idea that they were not contrary to Belgian law. What is the government doing to ensure legal certainty in tax matters? Thirdly, Minister, do you propose an initiative to reform corporate tax and establish a straight-line system ensuring equal treatment between multinationals and SMEs? Fourthly, there are still rulings in place. The application field still exists. Today there are terrorist bills that are to be established according to the rulings. In other words, how will the tax authorities handle it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u11	Mr Minister, on Saturday, your party chairman read out his newsletter and expressed his intention to save extra money for people who are struggling, for pensioners, for people with disabilities and for the unemployed. Yesterday you are organising a press conference to announce, together with a number of fancy types of the financial sector, that it might be interesting to tackle the tax exemption from the savings book. The savings notebook doesn't pay any more today, but you still want to study if you can't hit the little saver a little bit more. Justice is clearly still not in the government's dictionary, not even in 2016. What happens that same week? Are there tensions within the N-VA group? Mr Vuye, let us know if we have to intercede. What happens that same week? The European Commission considers that the improper benefits for multinationals of EUR 700 million in recent years have been illegal. Illegally, the European Commission says, not immediately the think tank of the ABVV! I agree with you that legal certainty, transparency and professionalism are important in taxation. What bothers me, however, is the eagerness of your reaction, Minister. You will do everything you can to avoid the EUR 700 million being recovered. That is as if the Minister of Road Safety were to say that she will be the first to sue against penalties and fines for dead drivers. It bothers me that you are raging because you do not want the money to be recovered, Mr Van Overtveldt. This contrasts sharply with the many taxes that small businesses, self-employed and working people in our country have to pay. That the CEO of AB InBev says something like that, I could still understand, but not that you say that as Minister of Finance. What will you do with the verdict now? Will you commit attacks or has that happened in the past? That's important information. Will you still appeal? Will you, along with the companies, say that they should not pay taxes? Everyone in our country has to pay taxes, but not the multinationals. I think that such an appeal would be absolutely inappropriate and that you should do everything in your power to recover the EUR 700 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the excess profit rulings were created ten years ago to make our investment environment more attractive. There was nothing wrong with that at the time and also today in principle. By the way, it was already touched in the interventions: even before the excess profit rulings existed, there was already the similar instrument of the infocalp. I would like to discuss all possible ins and outs of the excess profit rulings for a long time and intensively, but I would like to call on all political approaches to do so with the necessary historical sense of reality and the corresponding responsibilities. The European Commission did indeed consider a few days ago that our system of excess profit regulation is contrary to the rules on state aid. We expected that decision. It is for this reason that about a year ago, in February 2015, I had already decided to stop the show of new excess profit rules. We are also the first country in the European Union to start spontaneously exchanging the rules, not only the excess profit rules, but also the others. The Commission's ruling is what it is. I hope that other countries will now also be treated in the same way in the same areas. I cannot get the impression that the Commission is rather vague about this. Countries that are transparent will be punished. Countries that try to stay under the radar in these matters still seem to be able to do so. I hope this can be a provisional statement. Recovery is the next important step in the process and it will be anything but obvious, both in terms of enforcement and in terms of principles. Indeed, these rulings are in a way contracts between the authorities and the companies. Returning to these contracts and requiring repayments is not in line with my understanding of legal certainty. So, as Minister of Finance, I am prepared, without any reservations, to bear the responsibility for policy choices made by previous governments, because I consider legal certainty to be of paramount importance to citizens and businesses. I mean some people whose political responsibility was involved in the design of the ruling system, requiring reimbursement and allocation of the corresponding amount to the budget. Here a very large walk is taken with a minimal form of intellectual honesty. The recovery of these excess profit rulings would put a huge damper on our investment climate and on our reputation for large and less large foreign investors. No one can doubt that. This will have an impact on the quality of our investment environment in the short, medium and long term. This will have an impact on our economic growth, on our potential for job creation and ultimately also on our public finances. So I dare to ask openly whether we should not face the reality that, even if we succeed in recovering the 700 million to be recovered, in the long term, the budgetary costs could be higher than the 700 million. Moreover, this is all very simplistic. How can one think that companies would be passively watching us tell them that those rulings were what they were, that they would now be withdrawn and that the companies would now pay? It's exceptionally naive to think that. Indeed, we know that those rulings were a system at which those companies signed up at a certain point in time, and that meant that they did not do certain tax deductions anymore. That was the system's own thing. If we tell those companies today that they should forget those rulings and that we will take them into account, then those companies will immediately want to talk about the subtractions they didn't do at the time because they had chosen our ruling proposal. Either way, this is going to be a hugely complex case. I do not have a problem with this in itself, but at least we must show the utmost caution about possible returns, not only in terms of the amount, but also in terms of the timing with which we might be able to recover those amounts. One last point in this connection: this is, of course, a one-off income. We cannot ask these taxes two, three or four times back to those companies. This government is primarily interested in structural measures to put the budget in a structural manner. This dossier will receive my full attention and that of the government in the coming days, weeks and months. We will continue to negotiate. After all, there is not the slightest doubt that, after reading the European Commission's decision, there are still a lot of uncertainties about specific circumstances in the context of the rulings, which the European Commission's decision does not shed any clear light on. That is why we will continue to negotiate with the competent European authorities in order to find a good solution. Personally, I am convinced that, even if negotiations do not evolve in the right direction, the appeal should not be ruled out.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u13	Minister, you're looking for a lot of arguments not to claim reimbursement from those who have improperly benefited from these illegal benefits. This is unacceptable! You point out the risk that they will be angry, that they will leave the country, but do you measure the risk of all those who pay their taxes correctly, that citizens, SMEs, independents will be shocked by your government's lack of courage? This is unacceptable! "Depending on whether you are powerful or miserable, court judgments will make you white or black!" This is definitely the logic of this government! Multinationals are exempt, honest workers have to pay the tax. A company active in nuclear energy receives tailor-made tax advantages, all actors in the energy transition are subject to common rules. You are negotiating tax provisions with Saudi Arabia, but you are unable to help countries affected by climate change. That's not our vision of things. You will leave us, Minister, to attend a meeting of European ministers. I would ask you to put this issue on the agenda so that, once and for all, tax transparency can be ensured in Europe and that a form of tax justice can be ensured for all those who pay the tax tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u14	Minister, it is, of course, extremely hypocritical of a party that put forward that arrangement in 2005, but failed to notify it to the European Commission. The scheme was never notified, which will cause us serious problems with regard to recovery.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u15	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u16	Mr van der Maelen, you have been in the government for ten years, first in the purple-green. Your party even supplied the Secretary of State responsible for the fight against fraud, who has also co-approved a number of deals. I thought, and I am speaking now as chairman of the Finance Committee, that we should be pleased that the European Parliament has come here to say that we would try to avoid such practices in the future. We have also heard the OECD. Mr Saint-Amans said that with the G20, the OECD will try to prevent such unfair competition deals with multinationals worldwide in a just way. I thought you'd be pleased that that step has now been taken. Thank you, Minister, for the answer, but if you have to recover sums that have never been notified to the European Commission, then the legal certainty of this discussion will obviously come to light. I hope that a solution can be found, a deal with these companies, and that this arrangement will not be implemented in the future. If we do this blindly, as Mr Gilkinet proposes, and if we do not take into account retroactivity, then it could eventually become much more expensive with claims for damages. After all, the scheme could also be used in the future to say that there is a loss. I believe, Minister, that we must take this matter very seriously. Europe and the OECD say very clearly that such deals will no longer be possible in the future and that this will strengthen fairness in taxation. I think this is the big lesson. Mr van der Maelen, you systematically lecture us, while you have been responsible for ten years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u17	Minister, I must greet the father of the measure. Mr Reynders, this is your son we're talking about today. You must be honored! Mr Dispa, I consulted the parliamentary archives to find vote 8 of 3 June 2004. I found that PS, sp.a, Open Vld, MR, cdH and Ecolo had voted in favour of the project. Still, the essential thing is what we are going to do today. What will the government do? I note, minister, that you consider multinationals to be above the law. (…): (…)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u18	No! At the time, I wrote a book called Dr. Reynders' Tax Frankenstein, in which I denounced the measure. Today, what matters is the policy that the government will adopt in relation to this measure. In this regard, we find all the excuses that allow multinationals to be above the law. As a result, we find ourselves in a country that is a tax hell for workers and a tax haven for multinationals. I am addressing the N-VA: you are not the Flemish people's party. You're the party of the Voka, the multi-national party. For the hardworking Flemings, the Turtel tax, but for the multinationals, zero tax. That's the N-VA!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u19	Mr President, Mr Van Hees, I should like to refer to page 38 of the record of the plenary sitting of 3 June 2004 which contains the result of the vote. Whatever. The ping-pong game between the parties that were in power yesterday and that are no longer in power today does not matter very much. I even think that this debate is somewhat pathetic. Minister, I found your answer very embarrassing. You are contorting to find legal arguments to justify the indulgence you are about to show towards these multinationals. I'd like to help you get out of this embarrassment. That is how yesterday I put back on the table of the Finance Committee the bill which had been tabled by the cdH group and which aims to completely flatten corporate tax. Indeed, that is what this is all about. We must break out of the unequal treatment that exists between multinationals and the fabric of SMEs in our country. This bill concerns all businesses and aims to reduce corporate tax, but it means putting an end to these tax niches that you are defending, because you are insisting, Minister, on refusing any form of tax harmonisation at European level. You need to reconsider your position on this matter. A major project must be carried out. I'd like you to take the case with your arm-to-body rather than respond with false leaks as you just did.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u20	Minister, I would like to thank you for your commitment to protecting our investment environment and to protect our jobs, not only the jobs in large companies but also those many small companies that depend on them. I would like to return to Mr Van der Maelen's speech. Mr Van der Maelen, you are in favour of a search of conscience. If you first support and approve a measure, but want to abolish it years later and to penalise all companies that have used it, then do your conscientious examination. Mr Van der Maelen, if you want to convince people that 700 million euros will fall from the sky, without claims for damages and without job losses, do your conscience test. Mr van der Maelen, we are not participating in the destruction of the investment climate. Destroying Jobs, we're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard the Minister. What I feared happened: if multinationals had to pay their taxes correctly and return 700 million to the state treasury, he would see problems. Minister, you say that we must be careful because the multinationals will no longer stand for it. Minister, I don't know if you've already felt it, but the common man isn't gonna take it anymore either. One invoice after another is presented to him by this government, while at the same time the diamond companies receive tax gifts, the big assets get a new regularization and above all Electrabel gets a gift from you of 700 million euros. [[Rumor]] Minister, the ordinary Belgian no longer tolerates it. You have a duty to restore fiscal justice in Belgium and to claim 700 million. Where there is a political will, there is a way. Now I want to address my colleague Van Rompuy. Mr Van Rompuy, where was CD&V during the three hearings in which the sp.a warned about that over-profit rotation? I didn't hear you then. More than that, I'll give you a quote from the last hearing report. Listen carefully, Mr Van Rompuy: Mr Eric Van Rompuy and Mr Luk Van Biesen consider it unacceptable that Mr Van der Maelen lightly accuses the members of the ruling committee in the committee of unlawful practices without presenting any evidence. Well, Mr President, on Monday the European Commission proved that I was right! The ruling committee has taken illegal decisions and this majority will have to sit on those blisters. It is time for that majority to carry out a search of conscience, that is the responsibility of this majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u22	Debates may be heated, even on such issues. I would like to come back to the point, Minister. There are two fundamental elements. First and foremost, it is necessary to restore legal certainty for companies that have benefited from the rulings. Mr van der Maelen, you make a lot of caricatures in your statements. However, let us be honest: the man who was the lead initiator of the rulings within the ruling committee, up to 90%, was of your political signature. Let's be honest with each other. I would like to end the debate on the designation of those with the greatest responsibility in this dossier. Tax security must be restored. Secondly, there must be fiscal justice, not as the opposition says, by trying to recover what is possible. Minister, I would ask you to take an initiative to recreate company law so that the SMEs, who are the real engine of our economy, would be treated in the same way as the other companies in this country. It is your job to take the lead in reforming company law and recreating corporate tax so that our SMEs are treated fairly and are not discriminated against against multinationals, as is the case today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u23	Minister, if your answer were to be the plea of AB InBev's lawyer, that would have been a commendable plea. The problem for the SMEs and the working people in our country is that you are not the CEO or the lawyer of AB InBev, but the Minister of Finance, who should, in principle, do everything possible to achieve fiscal justice and a budget balanced in a fair way. It therefore bothers me that you say today, even before you enter into negotiations with the European Commission, that you will appeal if necessary. You say you'll do everything you can to keep those tax gifts up. Colleagues of N-VA, somewhere in the newspaper I have read there was not so much attention to the issue that you are going to set up a working group, the working group Vuye-Wouters. I read that on the menu of that working group are transfers from North to South. Now, Mr Vuye, I would like to suggest that we look at these other transfers, the transfers from working people to the diamond sector, from fair and sustainable energy companies to Electrabel, and today, with the support of Minister Van Overtveldt, from SMEs to multinationals. Mr Vuye, take a look at these transfers, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u24	Minister, your group of experts presented recommendations for the financial sector yesterday. The most striking proposal was the abolition of the tax exemption for the interests in the savings book. This exemption leads to other financial products being unattractive and thus the savings cannot be used for the economy, says the group of experts. Minister, you know as well as I do that people choose the savings book. At the moment they are not doing so for the high interest rates that can be earned, but for the safe disposal of their hard-earned savings. Surely it cannot be the intention to take away the small saver's tax advantage? What is the status of that group of experts? What action will you take on the recommendations of those experts?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u25	Mrs Wouters, nine months ago, in April 2015, I indeed took the initiative to set up a working group to examine the Belgian financial sector in the broad sense of the word. One principle was very important to me, that this working group, with eight eminent members, could work in complete independence. I believe that this kind of advice only makes sense if the analysis and opinions can be formulated independently. The analysis and the advice are now there. Let it be clear, however, that it is up to myself and more to the government to decide which options will be taken and which will not. It is true that the working group makes some recommendations in its final report on savings tax and on a number of tax elements on savings. However, there is currently no question of a reform of savings tax. It goes without saying that, for example, because of the continuously low interest rates, we must monitor further developments in this area. I kick down an open door when I say that Belgium is a country with a lot of savings books, I dare say, the classic apple for thirst. I am prepared to look at all the analyses and recommendations of all the people in this hemisphere, but of course the saver must and will be protected, and certainly the small saver. Finally, I am particularly pleased to see the work done by this expert group. I hope that we will all be able to learn from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased that you would like to inform us of the results of this expert group. Maybe we can discuss it in committee. I am also pleased that you say that the protection of the small saver is necessary. For us, Minister, it is clear that we do not have savings, the hard-earned pennies of our people. For us, the exemption may even be extended to other forms of savings. There are two advantages to this. Firstly, the saving citizen is rewarded, and secondly, the money comes into the economy so that we can provide a relance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u27	Mr President, Prime Minister, at the beginning of the year, there is nothing surprising about the fact that the N-VA, as a populist national party, vows to move towards the independence of Flanders. On the other hand, it is unacceptable that a Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Jambon, should take part in the meeting of separatist parties and movements in Europe at the end of December, and that on that occasion he would suggest that if Catalonia were to make the choice of independence under an abscons process tomorrow, the Belgian State would recognize it immediately. Here we find ourselves in the small circles of Doorbraak's nostalgic and other flaming movements. In a European Union where there is solidarity between states and governments, it is not acceptable for the representative of a federal government to support a secessionist movement that seeks to destabilize other states. Your minister has crossed a line that undermines our country's European credibility. Prime Minister, what is the limit you place on your ministers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u28	Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the N-VA's assaults on Belgium are taking place more and more quickly, with the words of Bart De Wever yesterday or those of Minister Liesbeth Homans announcing the end of Belgium for 2025. I hear the MR's statements that this is not about the government. But, Prime Minister, it's not just "internal pop" at the N-VA. Today, the N-VA is at the service of the independence of Flanders, from within the government itself. It is enough to convince ourselves to hear your Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of the Interior, clearly say that Belgium must recognise the independence of Catalonia, thus opening the door to the independence of Flanders. Meanwhile, Mrs Merkel, Mr Cameron, Mr Hollande, Mr Obama, all, together with Madrid, warned against Catalonia's independence. And here, the only expression of the government is that of your Minister of the Interior. Beyond that, he implied a very clear threat to bring the government down on this issue. What an illusion to believe that the N-VA would put its nationalist theses in the fridge for five years! You are the Prime Minister of Belgium. How long are you going to remain silent in the face of these repeated attacks by the N-VA against Belgium? Will you finally dare to speak out to defend Belgium, of which you are the Prime Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to stick to the experience of the last fifteen months. Fifteen months ago, we set up a government. The government agreement consists of 230 pages, all of which are entirely geared towards economic development, at the service of social protection, of improving security. A strong commitment was made from the outset: to faithfully implement the sixth reform of the State. So, let there be debates in political parties... it's not just within the N-VA. A few hours ago, a president of a French-speaking party spoke of a referendum on independence. A few weeks ago, ministers-presidents considered institutional issues up to the abolition of a Francophone institution. I note that there are, on the one hand, debates in political parties and, on the other hand, a reality to which I will stand as Prime Minister with great firmness is the establishment and implementation of this government agreement, no institutional reform until 2019. In 2019, there will be elections. It's democracy. Each party will defend its electoral agenda. Each party will set itself in order to defend its convictions, its proposals on economic and other issues, if it so wishes. It's as simple as that! Finally, I hear the remarks, the inquiries. As you can see, I take this with some hindsight and it makes me smile because I see what is essential. There is a truth that no one can dispute. In the last twenty years, for the first time, a government has the ambition not to undertake or carry out any reform of the state during a whole legislature. Elio Di Rupo, Yves Leterme, Guy Verhofstadt, all have undertaken or made reforms of the state. Under the Michel government, there will be no state reform until 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u30	Prime Minister, at each sitting you are heard saying, "I am sticking to my road map." But your majority partner doesn't stick to this road map. I used to say, "It's the De Wever-Michel government." I am more and more inclined to think that this is no longer the case, but that it is the De Wever-Malvira government, as you tell us what the real boss of this majority allows you to say. You do not even have the audacity to call a minister to order who is undermining the credibility of this country. Imagine for a moment that a nationalist party of another European government comes to say, in a rally of the N-VA or other such movement: "We come to support separatism in Belgium." As Prime Minister, you would be called upon to react immediately. It would not be acceptable for a minister from another European government to support a process of secession and separation in a Member State of the European Union. Even that, you have no more audacity or courage!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u31	Mr President, Prime Minister, I sum up: you don't hear anything, you don't see anything, you don't say anything. You're quiet, you're minimized. Worse, the more you shut up, until you become inconsistent while one of your Deputy Prime Ministers pleads for Catalonia's independence. It amuses you! However, let me tell you, Prime Minister, that you are going so far as to flatten yourself in front of the N-VA, which does not even bother to house, if only a minimum, its partner. The group leader of this party didn't even applaud you! What does the N-VA say? That the federal government is a Flemish government, that the NRs are the Flemish of Wallonia. What a contempt for your party! What a contempt for Francophones! You were more loquacious in 2013. At the time, you said, indeed, that the N-VA was a flycatcher to break the country. Mr Michel, you were no longer defending Belgium when you were not Prime Minister. It's a height!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u32	Prime Minister, social security is the cement of this country, and you know that. It is a real gem of which we must be proud, the link between all our fellow citizens - regardless of their origin or their convictions - the first bulwark against precariousness. This solidarity mechanism guarantees security of life for our fellow citizens in the North and the South. In today's press, your Minister of Health acknowledges that social security has already made a significant contribution. She says with a great deal that it will no longer be touched and encourages other ministers to make savings in their department. Prime Minister, your government's policy is completely unbalanced. You are asking six times less for income from capital than pensioners, sick people, unemployed people and other beneficiaries. Today, some parties of your majority want to continue along this path and impose ever more austerity, in disregard of any social reality and pure ideology. How are you going to resist the N-VA, which advocates the dismantling of social security? For the past year and a half, Bart De Wever has been pulling strings and making statements. You're just minimizing, as you've just done. You bring all this back to nothing, but the facts are there. Let's go back to the social security savings. How are you going to find the six billion to fill the budget deficit, because they are real? How will the MR do so so as not to place more burden on workers, pensioners, the sick and the unemployed the budgetary savings and gifts given to a minority? Tell us clearly and with determination, Prime Minister, that this time you will keep your promises: no question of touching the security! Rest assured: the government's boss is on 16th Street of the Act?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u33	Mr President, Prime Minister, when we read the newspaper today, it seemed as if the world was waking up because the N-VA had said something about the Community. Let us be honest about whether this is such a big surprise. Is that really such a big news? I don't think so. More importantly, the N-VA's statements that additional savings should be made in social security and the bickering within this government about whether or not the budget should be in balance. The pursuit of a structural balance in the budget is always a good thing. Some parties in your government feel that this is important and that it remains a priority for them, while others suddenly no longer care about it. I have one question for you, Prime Minister: what will you choose? What choice will you make? For a year you have said to people that there is no money and that there is no choice. You know that the electricity bill has become priceless for many people, while at the same time they see hundreds of millions of euros going to Electrabel. You know, Prime Minister, that this week it has been established that people who are sick have never paid so much out of their own pocket for their invoices as before. Well, at the same time, the N-VA says that additional savings in social security should be made. Last but not least, there is 600 million euros going to rockets, of which everyone is wondering if our country needs them. Is that the priority for all of us? If there is so much money for Electrabel, for the multinationals, for the purchase of rockets, can you not continue to claim that there is no other choice? Budgetary control is on the way. Whether that budget will be balanced or not is not so much the key question. The question is, what will you do? Will you or will you not again choose to be in the people's wallet?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for these questions which will allow me to clarify how we are going to work. I have a very good friend who was Budget Minister under the previous legislature, Olivier Chastel. He reminded me that from budgets to budgetary controls, there was not a single time without savings in social security and health care. Intellectual honesty still suggests that when we speak of savings, we do so in relation to a theoretical norm, but that real growth is effective. Under the previous legislature, we had real growth between 1 and 2 per cent. We continued this real growth in health care between 1 and 2 per cent. It is easy to check the figures that reflect this reality. Should we reform? Yes, to ensure the sustainability of our social protection. It is crucial for us to start structural reforms. The Ministers for Social Affairs and Pensions do so in order to ensure sustainable financing. With the job creation and with the economic reforms, the government proves to be working to strengthen and consolidate a sustainable financing of our social model. Those are the facts, that's the reality. With regard to the budget and budgetary control, we are going to work, as is the case with all the governments of the country, on structural consolidation. On the basis of the figures available, information from the Monitoring Committee and macroeconomic indicators, we will see how we can gradually move closer to structural consolidation. Within this framework, every minister, within the limits of his or her responsibilities, must produce the necessary reforms to move towards fiscal consolidation, create jobs and sustain our social protection model. Finally, I want to highlight an important point with regard to health care. We have started reforms, each time with the will to protect and respect patients. For example, we have improved the situation with respect to psychiatric care or chronic diseases. I conclude by saying that we are very determined to continue the reforms. A budget is made up of revenue and expenditure but also of macroeconomic indicators. For the time being, the Stability Pact foresees fiscal balance in 2018. In consultation with the Regions, we will have to regularly refer to this Stability Pact, which will be forwarded to the European Union. The government agreement specifies this commitment by 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u35	Prime Minister, you are referring to the previous government, previous budgets and budgetary controls, as well as savings in social security. There were savings in relation to the growth standards that had been mentioned. As we have had the opportunity to say on several occasions, all this has been accompanied by reinvestments, with a strengthening of solidarity and never on the backs of patients. It is a fundamental element. Today, for the past 15 months, there have already been many savings on the backs of patients and social recipients. It is an element of fundamental difference! When I hear you today, I am surprised at your answer. You confirm that there will still be many savings in social security. That's disturbing! This contradicts what your minister said this morning in the press, you are telling us clearly that there will still be savings in this department. Watch out for this mess!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u36	Mr Prime Minister, unfortunately I did not receive an answer to my question. I hear you referring to the previous government, which is all very easy, but my question was very simple. Will you again make the choice to be in the people's wallet? Since there is money for Electrabel, since there is money for rockets, since you do not get the money from the multinationals, why do you make that choice? You did not answer my question. So I fear that you are, unfortunately, going on the same tour as before. Let me warn you once again: there is an alternative, people know that too, people are tired of it, life has become extremely expensive. Stop making the wrong choices and choose justice!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Minister, January is traditionally the month of sale and price reductions. However, there seems to be one sector that escapes these discounts, namely the Internet sector. Over the last few weeks, we have been beaten by all kinds of price increases. It is not the first time that this has happened. Looks like there's a strategy behind it. After all, when one operator, namely Telenet, increases prices, a few weeks later another operator, especially Proximus, does exactly the same thing. The increases may also have occurred in the reverse order. I'm not a believer in conspiracy theories. Nevertheless, I have the impression that one operator seems to be following the other operator. Minister, I am a liberal and it is my conviction that it is not up to us to set prices. However, politics must ensure that there is sufficient freedom of choice and that there is sufficient freedom of market forces. That seems to be missing in our country. In Flanders there is a duopoly. Wallonia seems to be worse off. So the question is what needs to be done. Two things have to be done. Firstly, we must ensure that people have sufficient choice between different players. I opened the cable five years ago in my capacity as Minister at the time. Five years later, we notice that nothing has changed on the ground. Secondly, people must be able to switch operators in an easy, simple and free way. Minister, I know it is not up to you to intervene. You have a regulator, BIPT, who should do his job. However, I note that there is not enough decisive action. I have already noted that I took measures five years ago and that five years later no action is noticeable on the ground. The question is, of course, the following. What can you do about this situation? What do you intend to do to break the existing duopoly of Telenet and Proximus?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u38	Mr President, Mr Van Quickenborne, I share your concern. The situation indicates an underlying structural problem in the Belgian telecoms market, namely a fundamental lack of competition. That has been my focus since day one. I want more competition in the market, so that there is more innovation and, above all, lower prices for consumers. As you say, there are two levers. The first lever is to make it easier for consumers to change operators. Today this is already the case in the mobile market, where prices are relatively low. I have drawn up a royal decree on this subject, which should, in principle, be introduced before the summer of 2016. It ensures that when consumers want to change operators, the operators take on all the administration and the operational part. However, in order to be able to change operators, the consumer must of course have the choice. That is why it is important, as you say, to open the cable so that there are different operators who can compete on price. You know that's what we're doing, with the regulator. One large operator has already made it clear that he wants to launch. A second has also shown interest. Can change and make sure there are more players, that's what it's about. As you say, as a minister, I cannot intervene directly in the market. That's done by the regulator and that's the BIPT. The law states very clearly that the regulator must promote competition and guard the interests of consumers. The question is whether this is enough today. As you point out, the cable opening Act of 1 July 2011. We're five years later and there's not a third operator on the cable yet. The BIPT must carry out a market analysis every three years. The latest market analysis dates back to 2011. The new one will be ready by the end of this year. There too, the deadlines are not being met. I want to be very clear. The BIPT must play much shorter on the ball, show more decisiveness, work faster and act more in the interests of the consumer. As you know, the designation of a new council will be launched next week. In choosing the new council members it is very clear that for me the priority will be a BIPT that can act much faster and much more decisively.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u39	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. He has outlined a number of clear measures and the determination towards BIPT is also positive. I do not want to be fatalistic, Minister. With the previous government, we have made a breakthrough, among other things, in the mobile subscription and internet sector: lower prices, more choice and yet more investment. We must now follow the same path regarding fixed internet. There's one thing I need to get off my chest. It is strange that customers of all kinds should come to the streets to express their displeasure, while this should be the task of BIPT. So make sure that we have a much more decisive operator that comes out of our hands, so that we also get competitive internet rates for all our residents in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u40	We have actually already dealt with this issue, but this particular aspect will be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u41	Mr President, I did indeed put the question to the Prime Minister. I don't know why he's not answering, but I'm sure I'll get a very clear answer from the Foreign Minister. Minister, a few months ago, following the Catalan elections, I interviewed the Prime Minister about the Belgian Government's position on Catalonia's independence struggle. The Prime Minister's reply at the time was that he would not take a position; the item was not on the agenda. My motion of recommendation that the government should not, at the time when the subject was to be discussed, simply side with Madrid, as Merkel and Cameron had already shown us, was voted away by all parties in this hemisphere, except, of course, by the Flemish Interest. In the meantime, Minister, a number of things have happened. Since this week, Catalonia has had a new regional government. There is a new Prime Minister and he has the ambition to put the Catalan Republic on track in the short term. So there is no other way or that item will be on the agenda of the European Council very soon. This government will have to take a stand on this. Your fellow Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Jan Jambon, has already made a public statement on this matter. He says it's gonna be a difficult matter. In the monthly magazine Plural he says "It's even the title of the article: "If Catalonia comes on the agenda, the Belgian government falls. Minister, I ask you very simply whether this is true. Does this government indeed have a problem if this item is to be on the agenda in the near future? Why does this government have a problem? What kind of problem could that be? I am very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u42	Mr President, Mrs Pas, it is no surprise, but I have no problem answering. The recognition of a State is a sovereign decision, in the context of the foreign affairs of a State, such as Belgium. That decision is made on the basis of international law. This means that one must be a legal person with a population, a territory and a government. However, that government must be independent of another government or state. That's the situation. So far it is too early to say anything, especially in relation to the situation in another European Member State. We will wait and see if there is a dossier on the table of the European Union. There is an example, especially Scotland. There was an agreement between Scotland and London to hold a referendum. We said that we would follow the decision of the people. So far, we have stuck to the same approach. It is now an internal problem for Spain, namely a discussion between Madrid and Barcelona. One day it might be useful to give advice from Belgium. I've indicated the conditions. We are now waiting for a possible question in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u43	Mr. Secretary, I know the theory. You can move things forward for a while, but you will have to take a position with your government anyway. I didn't actually get an answer to my question. I am counting on you to support the self-determination of the Catalans if that comes on this government's agenda. However, I am not reassured that this government will do so. You may rest assured that your government will not fall for this, as.atoma...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Words and deeds are always very different at the N-VA, we know that by now. It's totally unbelievable, despite the smokescreens. Yesterday, even one of these was pulled up. If a party like the N-VA puts its own independence efforts in the refrigerator without any difficulty to keep a Belgian government going, then it seems very unlikely that that party will use such a foreign question to step out of its beloved Belgian government. Minister, I am counting on you to support the Catalans. I will certainly come back with that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u44	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, we are currently experiencing a moment of great emotion. Indeed, we remember a few weeks ago that we had ratified the Istanbul Convention, which had passed unanimously here, while in the Polish Parliament it had not been so at all. The party that is currently in power had opposed this ratification very much. What is happening today in Poland is, to use the expression Amélie Nothomb, "stupeur et trembles". The 38 million inhabitants of this great country, plus the 20 million Poles found all over the world, are really our brothers. They may also be at the initiative of culture and democracy in Europe. Let us not forget that this country elected its king, from the 16th century, in an assembly of nobles, certainly, but it was already a first step towards democracy. Poland was also martyred. For more than a century and a half, the country was deprived of its independence, and it is known how dramatic the Second World War was. We can mention the Warsaw ghetto, Katyń and other examples. It is also, as I have just heard, a country that has been, in a way, the father of social culture, since the Solidarność trade union was important there. It is also a symbolic country of European culture. Let us not forget that fourteen UNESCO World Heritage sites are there. Finally, symbolically, during the Iron Curtain period, a seat remained empty in the European Parliament for the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. Poland joined the European Union in 2004. Today, what do we see? The foundations of Polish democracy are being questioned. I will mention two of them: on the one hand, the reform of the Constitutional Court and, on the other, the forcible control – there is no other term – of the public media. In this context, we come to what Copernicus, a Pole himself, said: the earth no longer revolves around the sun. Mr Minister, you know that yesterday, through the European Commission, Europe took the decision of an amicable inquiry – if I may say so – and was to last three months. I would like to know your feeling from this point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u45	Mr President, Minister, freedom of expression and the media, human rights, the independence of justice, equality and the rule of law are European values. These values are part of our DNA. These values, these treaties are often threatened, too often, by some Member States. This is unacceptable to my group and should be unacceptable to all of us. For the defenders of Europe, it is often forgotten that Europe is above all a project of peace and living together. Budgetary treaties do not take precedence over our founding treaties. So after Austria, Hungary and I am passing, today it is Poland that worries us. The conservative Polish government, a member of the European Conservative and Reformist group, has had only one obsession since it came to power: to impose its positions in the public media and justice, and the return to a more traditional Poland – we know very well what that means – probably following the dangerous path taken by the Hungarian government. Why would he do otherwise, since nobody in Europe says anything? In any event, the Law on the Control of the Media was adopted by the Polish Parliament. If these violations are confirmed and persist, European sanctions must be taken and Belgium, as a founding State, must position itself in this direction. Minister, following the adoption of the Media Act, what is the attitude of Belgian diplomacy towards the Polish authorities? What position did our country take at the Commission's meeting on 13 January on this situation? Does Belgium advocate strengthening European measures in the face of Member State infringements of the European Convention on Human Rights and European values? Under the previous legislature, Minister, the House had adopted a text of the PS group on the revised Hungarian Constitution. My group will now ask for urgency on a similar proposal concerning Poland. Will you support this request? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, during the previous parliamentary term, I had already spoken on behalf of the Benelux when we were concerned about legislation in Hungary. The procedure was initiated by the European Commission at the time to examine the situation. However, this debate on Hungary resulted in a Commission communication in March 2014, which established a new mechanism for monitoring the rule of law. At the end of last year, I pointed out in this House that the Commission had again sent a letter to Hungary on how to manage asylum and migration in the country. As far as Poland is concerned, we did not take an attitude at the meeting on 13 January. Mr Blanchart, it was a meeting of the Commission and not of the Council. As a result, Belgium was not sitting at the discussion table. For the time being, two pieces of legislation are worrying. The one that worries the most – I understand the emotion that the media law brings – is the legislation on the Constitutional Court. If the latter were to be changed, it was prevented from correcting any discrepancies that might occur in other areas. But the media law is obviously very concerned because of its immediate effect. We see the will to take over. The Commission launched the procedure in March 2014. First, letters are sent to ask for an explanation. It is the evaluation of legislation. Recommendations and follow-up of recommendations will then be made. If, as in other budgetary procedures, the recommendations are not followed, this can lead to the application of Article 7 of the Treaties, which is the ultimate weapon, even leading to suspensions of voting rights. Belgium fully supports this process. We supported it with regard to Hungary. We got this new mechanism. We will go along with the work of the Commission. I would also like to see this discussed regularly in the General Affairs Council in order to have a discussion at European level between the Ministers and Secretaries of State responsible for European Affairs. For my part, I will meet my Polish counterpart on Sunday night. I will come back to the same grievances, which are discussed not only by the European Commission but by the Council of Europe. The Venice Commission of the Council of Europe will also deliver an opinion on the subject. There is a very small glimmer of hope at the moment: the Polish government has finally submitted an amendment to its media legislation to this Venice Commission within the Council of Europe. We have been vigilant since the beginning of these concerns about the rule of law. In my view, monitoring mechanisms should be further expanded. The rule of law must be monitored at least as much as the budgetary situation of States. The Copenhagen political criteria are at least as important as the Maastricht budgetary and economic criteria.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u47	Mr President, Minister, I am fully satisfied with your answer. Your comments on system improvement are extremely important. Unfortunately, this problem is likely to occur in other countries. We can see what is currently happening in the Slovak Republic. Some of the reactions of the Socialist Prime Minister of this country are intriguing. In addition, you stressed the need to continue working in the context of bilateral talks – which you are doing with other countries. This is, in my view, extremely important. In any case, it should be explained to the Polish Prime Minister that we were able to see yesterday on television, that we are no longer in 1938, that we are living in a Europe under construction and that it is not by saying that a country leads the economic and social policy it wants and adopts the laws it wants it to participate in the construction of Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u48	Mr President, Minister, as you mentioned, the activation of section 7 is far from obvious. We also know the limits. The monitoring procedure is initiated. This will probably make it possible to clarify the facts, to see how far Poland goes in terms of measures. I imagine that, as a result, a dialogue will be initiated, without prejudging what will happen afterwards, even if sanctions are likely to be taken. What sanctions would be involved would have to be considered. Having said that, I believe that the government and our assembly must first position themselves on this issue. That is why, particularly in the light of the statements made recently by Guy Verhofstadt, I would ask you to give broad support to the proposal which we are going to table and which is in line with the texts adopted on Hungary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u49	Mr President, Mr Minister, first of all let me thank you for the understanding and courtesy that you have shown during the "error of referral" of the tabling of this question. I read today that you are taking a government initiative regarding the assurance of anonymity that can now be given to police officers, certain services being confronted with sensitive issues of obviously terrorism and great banditry. You're a thousand times right. There are gaps in this area and the MR is particularly sensitive to the protection of our police officers. Bravo for this initiative that was already taken, long ago in France, since it was already in 2006 that this country legislated to ensure the anonymity of its police forces. These provisions were further strengthened in 2011. I have four specific questions. 1. Will you distinguish between operational and support services – as we know that civilians also work at the core of special forces? 2. What will be the perimeter of protection? Are we going to target investigations, judicial proceedings, more broadly media initiatives or, as I have read, the possibility for a quidam to make a photo and disseminate it on social networks? Will anonymity be extended to these different situations? 3. What protection can be afforded to the families of special or intervention forces members? 4. What sanctions will accompany the arrangements you are planning to put in place?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u50	My dear colleague, thank you, and on behalf of Mr Jambon, for this interesting question. The government agreement provides that the integrity of police officers must be guaranteed at all times. At present, a number of measures already protect police officers, such as those concerning the possibility of wearing a nameplate or armband bearing an intervention number, thus avoiding mentioning their identity in the minutes. However, this protection is insufficient. We felt that the identity of the leadership of the special units of the federal police should be better protected. As for the missions that require special protection, not only techniques, but also tactics used and the persons who carry them out, there are provisions in the Code of Criminal Investigation to protect the identity of agents for certain special observation and infiltration missions, but we consider this to be still insufficient. That is why we are going to have a general regime for members of special units and for those of the police in general who are investigating particularly dangerous criminals and very serious offences. I am thinking of the operational services as well as those involved in administrative or logistical matters, i.e. the CALOGs, who must be able to benefit from anonymity if they are involved in such investigations. In the context of the "pot-pourri IV", we will draw up provisions in this regard. I reserve the right to answer your other questions when the majority has deliberated on them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u51	Minister, thank you for the clarifications you give us before the texts have been finalized. We are, of course, at your side, and we stand at your disposal in this regard. Thank you also for taking into account the question of CALOG. It would be a missed opportunity not to extend the measure to civilians working at the core of the police services.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the N-VA and its President Bart De Wever have expressed their wishes and have announced what the Prime Minister still does not know: all means will be used for the independence of Flanders and therefore, of course, for the division of Belgium. Two national symbols of solidarity, of relations between people and of work are directly attacked: social security, of which my colleague Frédéric Daerden spoke, and SNCB. You realize the SNCB roadmap, and Wallonia is tired of being the beautiful cuckold! She's tired of being treated as less than anything through the treatment of SNCB. For the Walloons, however, there are plans to increase the difficulties for the Flemish people by providing for general rail motorways. I am not even talking about the infrastructure works that are being delivered to the Greek calends in Wallonia and Brussels. Mr Chastel, I listened to you this morning and I heard you very well. Do me the same politeness, even if you were on the radio and I'm here in the parliamentary chamber. There's your words, there's the facts. After domestic traffic, it is international traffic that undergoes a real policy of isolation. Wallonia is deprived of international lines worthy of this name. Madam Minister, you have so to speak murdered the Thalys Walloon. You refuse to relaunch this strategic international liaison. You cheated Wallonia. You have shown intellectual dishonesty in the face of parliament by justifying the temporary suspension of the Thalys on the Walloon dorsal for purely technical reasons. The Board of Directors of SNCB has taken over from its budgetary assumptions 2016-2020 the restoration of the Thalys service on the Walloon dorsal. The problems are now resolved. You only now block the recovery of Thalys on the Walloon dorsal. You didn't even pretend to find alternatives worthy of that name. On the other hand, we are quick to find solutions to replace the Fyra and constantly increase the supply to the Netherlands. For this, money is not a problem. The Wallonia cannot stay on the balcony and accept that it is isolated with impunity every day a little more from the rest of the railway Europe, while Flanders benefits from all aspects. For us, this is symbolically, politically and economically unacceptable. Minister, once and for all, answer this question, this time straight away and unambiguously: yes or no, are you going to restore the service to the Thalys of the Walloon dorsal? Or, to put it even more precisely: yes or no, are you going to include in the new SNCB management contract a provision guaranteeing this service?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u53	Dear Mr Devin, at the end of March 2015, I would remind you that Thalys trains were stopped for the implementation of ERTMS. Directly and at my request, SNCB has examined various alternatives to the current high-speed services. The future of Thalys Wallon will be re-evaluated under the new management contract and the multi-year investment plan, which are currently under development. The Board of Directors of SNCB recently recalled that this was part of the assumptions, as you said.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u54	Minister, once again, you're drowning the fish. Look at the disappointment of all those who defend our country and one of its three regions, Wallonia. I only needed one word from you: "Yes" or "No". In plenary session on 5 March and 21 May 2015, you assured us that you would look for credible alternatives once your modernization plan had been approved. I note today that you have deceived us. Even more serious, you have so to speak mystified the Walloons who do not have to suffer this Corsican hatred that animates your decision. Madam Minister, if there is someone who is playing the game of regionalization of the railways, it is you, positioning yourself as the carrier of bags of the N-VA. Take an example of your colleagues from the MR in the Walloon Parliament - whom Mr Borsus and I have been with a lot - and more particularly on Mr Jean-Luc Crocke. It's not just Wallonia who's paying for your purges. Strategic interests must clearly go beyond your own accounting interests. Mr President, in committee, I will appeal to the minister and I will invite anyone who wants to support a motion recommending that the Thalys Wallon be put back into service as quickly and effectively as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u55	Madam Minister, we have read in the press that your draft on the drones has received a negative opinion from Europe, because apparently our country is stricter than Europe. A year ago I raised the issue in Parliament. At that time, I indicated that this is a relatively young, emerging industry, which deserves a final legal framework. It is therefore very unfortunate that Belgium is among the worst students in the class. In our country people are busy developing droneports. Our drone manager gets free applications from companies from all over the country every week, both Wallonia and Flanders, who want to start with commercial drones. In the meantime, I have read your announcement in the press that by 18 March you will issue a regulation. But as far as I'm concerned, I apologize for being a little disrespectful about the home, garden and kitchen drones and not about the commercial drones, while it's like the commercial drones that can boost the economy. That's why I have the following questions for you. How will you ensure that legislation is put in place as quickly as possible, so that our country's competitiveness is increased and local companies are not disadvantaged? Then how do you guarantee, if you have drawn up legislation in this area, that it will be implemented as soon as possible, including for commercial drones and not just for the drones from the event sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u56	Dear colleague, in September we finished the editorial work of the KB at Belgian level. The draft drawn up by the previous government was modified, particularly in response to the demands of the sectors. Thanks to these modifications, a higher flight altitude is allowed. We received the necessary positive advice for our design, for example from the Privacy Commission and the Council of State. The text was then forwarded to the European Commission in accordance with the procedure. The Commission gave its opinion at the end of December. The opinion deals, as expected, with the free movement of goods and services. Important to note is that our starting point in the layout was safety, both on the ground and in the air. According to the procedure, we now have three months to analyse the opinion and to justify our position on it. I will use that period to adapt the draft Royal Decree together with the administration, the Commission and the sector. The Royal Decree will be published in March of this year. The proposed framework will enable an important economic sector in our country to develop in a competitive way and will ensure both the security and privacy of our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u57	Madam Secretary, it is in itself a good thing that the royal decision will be taken in March. But, for the record, I assume that the royal decree will go through everything and not, as you announced a year ago, can be adapted again. If you come up with a royal decision, make sure it's as competitive as the rest of the legislation in Europe and make sure it doesn't have to be changed again in the summer. We hope so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u58	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u59	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: 108: Sonja Becq, Raf Terwingen, Servais Verherstraeten 758: Sophie De Wit, Sarah Smeyers, Goedele Uyttersprot, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh 969: Laurette Onkelinx, Özlem Özen, Eric Massin 1139: Stéphane Crusnière, Peter Vanvelthoven, Alain Mathot, Ahmed Laaouej, Hans Bonte 1368: Sonja Becq, Raf Terwingen, Servais Verherstraeten 1369: Raf Terwingen, Sonja Becq, Servais Verherstraeten 1385: Sophie De Wit, Sarah Smeyers, Goedele Uyttersprot, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh. The rapporteurs are Mrs Özen and Mrs Van Vaerenbergh.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u60	Mr. Speaker, I just want to point out that, in this extremely important bill, we are tabling amendments for which we are seeking the advice of the Council of State. I may ask that Mrs Özen be able to justify this particular request.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u61	Mr. Speaker, Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is not really a custom to stand in the gallery to justify amendments, let alone in the habit of opposing the use of rule 98 of the Rules of the House. We are aware of this, that sending amendments to the Council of State at this stage is a heavy step and is not frequently used, but, if this possibility exists, it is to be used when this proves necessary. Today, I am convinced, this is necessary given the stakes. Minister, since you have failed to immunize your budget, your government's only objective in the area of justice is "economies, economies and economies". All actors in the judiciary, be they lawyers, clerks, prison guards or judges, have repeatedly warned this government. The justice of our country is at a stage where it is no longer in a position to carry out its essential tasks. The Attorney General of the Court of Cassation did not hesitate to speak of a "threat against the independence of the judiciary" in view of the savings imposed on him. It seems that the state has chosen to dismantle its own justice. I'm not saying it, it's the first president of the Court of Cassation. In the end, ladies and gentlemen, those who will suffer will be the citizens. This "pot-pourri II" is no exception to the rule. Our justice deserves much better than hasty reforms that keep it away more and more from the citizens. Under the pretext of achieving savings, the government proposes reforms that affect the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens. We are talking about, and it is extremely important, the right to a fair trial, the right to be tried by one's peers, the presumption of innocence, equality before the law, the protection of privacy or even the right to lead a family life. When a Government provides for heavier penalties than those imposed by the International Criminal Court in the event of a crime against humanity, one cannot remain marble. In the opinion of many experts, as it stands, this project is promised to censure the Constitutional Court. Hearings – we have a lot of them in committee – show that this project largely crosses the red lines laid down by the European Convention on Human Rights and other international conventions. We therefore ask the Council of State to analyse the amendments and the provisions they amend in the light of these international conventions. In conclusion, he was asked to prepare the work of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u62	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in committee, on behalf of my group, I have opposed with others in a timely and relevant way your text, for many reasons. The first, and not least, is that without removing it you automatically stalemate the court of assizes, when such an institution certainly deserves a useful debate where all points of view can be exchanged. But he's avoided. The Court of Assizes is maintained since we do not have a majority to reform the Constitution. That said, the passage into court of assizes with an extraordinary legal entourage which is the general correction of crimes. From this assembly, a series of chain reactions is obtained. This text proposes a massive prolongation of sentences. In fact, if crimes are to be corrected, penalties must be increased in the correctional court. The requirements are also extended. On the other hand, drastic sanctions are reduced, as is the judge's discretion and, consequently, the principle of individualization of sentences. The result will be an almost automatic increase in the prison population. It is, moreover, the minister, to the opposite of the wishes that you express in your notes or in front of the committee. In addition, the time limit for judicial review of pre-trial detention will be extended. Public prosecutors will be used to compensate for the shortage of judges in the Public Prosecutor's Office, as managers are not filled. The right of appeal and opposition will be limited. In short, it is an umpteenth attack dictated by purely budgetary reasons, as we have just pointed out, against a justice that we hope will be worthy of this century. I have also tabled amendments, but I am not asking for them to be referred back to the Council of State, because I believe that those tabled in committee were in line with what this body wanted. On the other hand, we will support the request that has been submitted by another opposition party, hoping – why not, we can be naive and always dream – that the additional deadline that will be given to the majority will allow it to reflect on a text that is more balanced.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group and with my colleague Stefaan Van Hecke, I have taken an active part in all the work that took place in committee in a serene, but not necessarily constructive, climate. At least, perhaps they were intellectually, but unfortunately they are not at the final stage. We see this with these texts, which are, once again, one wonders why, called "pot-pourri". We're in episode II, and there will be more. The first sequence consisted of the auditions. The people we have heard have prepared the ground well. It must be acknowledged that we find in the report all the considerations relating to all the themes that go through a text containing more than two hundred articles. I am thinking not only of the lengthening of sentences, but also of crucial issues such as the future or future of the assize court. Mr Minister, your preliminary draft was submitted to the Council of State, which sent us its first remarks. But we await his full opinion on the future of the Assize Court. It is paradoxical to note that article 150 of the Constitution is open for revision. A real debate on the future of the Assize Court is therefore possible. During the hearings, a number of avenues were put forward. I am thinking, among other things, of the possibility of adapting the correctional court to take into account the civil parties, experts, the recognized qualities of oral sitting court debates that may disappear. Obviously, you decided that a debate on the assize court would not take place. Instead, you have decided to gradually blur an institution that – it must be recognized – has been created for the benefit of all the citizens concerned by the justice that is part of society. This is a fundamental issue. This theme deserves to be revisited, inter alia, by requesting the opinion of the Council of State. Mr Minister, I therefore ask you – as members of the majority – to carefully consider the amendments that have been and will still be tabled. Indeed, despite the first and second readings, despite the hearings that have been held, we are dissatisfied with the result. In a text what counts is the final result. While some progress has been made in listening at the hearings, no progress has been made in translating the statements made during the hearings. We therefore hope to be able to count on this last appeal for an amendment of the text.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of our group as a whole, I am deeply reticent about this project, which the world of justice and the League of Human Rights have strongly contested because it threatens fundamental rights and establishes class justice. Our criticism is fourfold. This project introduces a more repressive policy. The rights of the defence are reduced. There's a de facto removal of the seats. Finally, there is a strengthening of the Public Prosecutor's Office to the detriment of the investigating judge. We see that the minister follows this old desire of the prosecutor to reduce the power of the investigating judge, whose prosecutor's office has nothing to do with it! We are also tabling amendments. We do not ask for them to be submitted to the Council of State, but we will support Mrs Özen's request.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion of the Council of State is requested although it is not clearly mentioned who is asking for this opinion and for which amendment. On the PS side, the situation is clear. Mr Brotcorne did not seek the opinion of the Council of State. Ecolo-Groen does not ask for the opinion. Same for sp.a. So, only the PS asks for this opinion. In accordance with the Standing Orders, 50 members of this assembly must support the request.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u66	This means that we shall suspend the discussion and continue it at the time when the Council of State's opinions have reached us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u67	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Sebastian Pirlot, Julie Fernandez Fernandez, Eric Thiébaut. The Committee on Defence proposes that this motion for a resolution be rejected. (226/3) The Committee on National Defence proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (226/3) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u68	Mr President, I refer to the written report, which is particularly well written.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u69	Mr President, Mr Defence Minister absent, ladies and gentlemen, the excellent work of our military is no longer to be demonstrated, particularly in situations of emergency and assistance to the people. The "Homeland" mission illustrates this, such as the permanent missions, notably with the Royal Military Hospital or the de-mining service mobilized during the various searches carried out in the fight against terrorism. We know that, in the face of certain crisis situations, in a complementary way, only Defence has the material and human resources to respond to them and to help Belgian, European and even international citizens, in particular via B-FAST. Existing or new synergies are therefore to be found, to be increased. My group has made assistance to the Nation one of its five Defence Strategic Directions for 2015-2030. Yet this government no longer makes aid to the nation a priority. Just the opposite. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to quote part of the statement made by one of my colleagues from the N-VA: "Defence is not an alternative kind of civil protection, let alone a platform of social workers." Inquiring, disturbing. I do not share that vision at all. At a time when this government uses the military as Swiss knives in an unprecedented way (repatriation of immigrants, faction missions) and charges these missions to help the most fragile, it is still a bit of the hospital that mocks charity. Indeed, the Michel government agreement leaves no room for doubt on page 204 of its missions: "If these tasks involve additional costs for the Defence, they will be billed." Ladies and gentlemen, we are not talking about charity but about aid to people and national, even European and international solidarity. However, this government has implemented this part of the government agreement even before any strategic plan has been included in the same agreement. This government has for the first time billed certain tasks of aid to the population, as in the framework of the Grand Cold Plan. This is an unacceptable decision for my group. The weakest do not have to suffer from defence budget savings. This decision is and will be a date not because of the 7,000 euros expected for the Defence in Liège, for example, but because it announces an ideological change in the level of aid to the Nation. If, thanks to the intervention of my group, this incomprehensible decision has finally been overturned by the minister, what will tomorrow be? No answer. Despite the recent announcement effects, the strategic plan is still not available and it is therefore impossible to say whether these missions of assistance to the Nation, their importance and their freeness, will be addressed. We fear that tomorrow the army will charge the communes or even the victims – why not? – its aid in the event of floods. Worse, as we saw yesterday, the maintenance of search and rescue at sea is currently under consideration. So we can fear the worst. My group has tabled a number of updating amendments following our committee's visit to the Central Army Commission to put these missions into practice and free of charge. It is in this context that I presented this text in committee and that it was rejected in a few minutes by the majority, further increasing my concerns. The main purpose of this text is to send a clear message to the government so that it takes fully into account the so-called tasks of assistance to the Nation within the future strategic plan. Ladies and gentlemen, by your nominative vote, I ask you to answer a simple question. Yes or no, should assistance missions to the Nation be maintained, free of charge, when civilian authorities appeal to it? There is no ambiguity. Defence's priority is and must remain our country's international operationality. However, when Defence does not use its personnel, equipment and infrastructure for its missions or their preparation, it must maximize their use for civil society and public authorities, both inside and outside the country. It is therefore necessary to prevent the public authorities from being completely distraught with such situations, as, unfortunately, we fear, the bleak budget cuts imposed by this government on Defence (more than 2 billion) are enormous. Thank you for your attention and I hope to get your support. I don't doubt it for a moment because it's never too late to become wise. I invite you to meditate on a Chinese proverb: "When a wise man shows the moon, the simple man looks at the finger." At the time of the vote, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, we will see how many of you have looked at the finger.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u70	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u71	At the request of the chairman of the Committee on the Revision of the Constitution and the Reform of the Institutions, I propose that the proposal (Mr Raf Terwingen, Mr Hendrik Vuye, Mr Denis Ducarme and Mr Dewael) be revised to allow a period of arrest of seventy-two hours for certain offences, No. 1529/1, refer to the Temporary Committee on Counter-Terrorism for advice. At the request of the Chairman of the Committee on the Revision of the Constitution and the Reform of the Institutions, I propose that you refer the proposal back (MM. Raf Terwingen, Hendrik Vuye, Denis Ducrame and Patrick Dewael) to review article 12 of the Constitution with a view to allowing for certain offences a period of arrest of seventy-two hours, n° 1529/1, to the temporary commission "fight against terrorism" for opinion. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u72	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 13 January 2016, I also propose that you consider: - the motion for a resolution (Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and Mr Egbert Lachaert) on improved social dialogue within the SNCB group, No. 1565/1; - the motion for a resolution (Mr Jef Van den Bergh cs) on the promotion of the combination of bicycle and train, No. 1573/1;
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u73	- the motion for a resolution (Mr Olivier Maingain, Mr Gilles Vanden Burre, Mr Stefaan Van Hecke, Mr Christian Brotcorne and Mr Marco Van Hees and Mrs Karin Temmerman) on the implementation by the Court of Auditors of two surveys of public-private cooperation in criminal matters, No. 1568/1;
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u74	- the legislative proposal (Mr Stefaan Vercamer) on career savings, No. 1570/1, - the legislative proposal (Mr Stefaan Vercamer and Ms Nahima Lanjri) amending the Law of 4 December 2007 on the social elections as regards the voting rights of temporary workers, No. 1571/1;
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u75	- the bill (Mrs Carina Van Cauter and Mr Patrick Dewael) amending the Criminal Code as regards the punishment of terrorism, No. 1579/1;
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u76	- the motion for a resolution (Mr Philippe Blanchart cs) on Poland and the defence of European values, No. 1581/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u77	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 13 January 2016, I also propose that you take into account: - the motion for a resolution (Ms Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and Mr Egbert Lachaert) on improving social dialogue in the SNCB Group, No 1565/1; - the motion for a resolution (Mr Jef Van den Bergh et al.) on the promotion of the combination of bicycles and trains, No 1573/1;
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u78	- the motion for a resolution (MM. Olivier Maingain, Gilles Vanden Burre, Stefaan Van Hecke, Christian Brotcorne and Marco Van Hees and Mrs Karin Temmerman) on the conduct by the Court of Auditors of two audits in the prison sector linked to a Public-Private Partnership, No. 1568/1;
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u79	- the proposal for a law (Mr Stefaan Vercamer) on career savings, No. 1570/1; - the draft law (Mr Stefaan Vercamer and Ms Nahima Lanjri) amending the Act of 4 December 2007 on social elections with regard to the right to vote of temporary workers, No. 1571/1;
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u80	- the bill (Ms. Carina Van Cauter and Mr. Patrick Dewael) amending the Penal Code with regard to the suppression of terrorism, No. 1579/1;
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u81	- the motion for a resolution (Mr Philippe Blanchart et al.) on Poland and the defence of European values, No 1581/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u82	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u83	Mr President, we call for urgent consideration of the motion for a resolution on Poland and the defence of European values (No 1581). As we always call for a justification of urgency: we will set an example. Mr. Blanchart will justify it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u84	Mr President, the urgency is justified by the meetings of the European Council on 18 and 19 February. It is important, as I mentioned earlier in my address to Minister Reynders, that this House adopt a clear attitude on this issue so that parliamentary diplomacy can be activated. It is also important that our government take a clear position.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore propose that we take a stand on the urgent request of the PS colleagues for a resolution on Poland and the defence of European values (point 1581).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u86	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[84]] Yes No. [[55]] No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 226/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 226/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-14-54-plenair-ip094x.u87	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 21 January 2016. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, January 21, 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday 21 January 2016 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 21 January 2016 at 2.15 p.m.
