ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fonck's 7660 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u2	Mr President, Minister, recently the European Commission called for the creation of so-called Competitiveness Councils. Those bodies would be responsible in each euro area country for the policy advice to the government and the social partners on anything related to competitiveness. The proposal will be examined by the Council of Finance Ministers. Although it is indicated that the Competitiveness Councils will not undermine the autonomy of the social partners, it can be expected that such a new organism will have a heavy, indirect impact on the wage bargaining in our country. Moreover, there is a risk that the functioning of the Central Council for Business, where the social partners can make their voices heard today, will be completely undermined by the new body. After all, the Central Council for Business is currently the body where the competitiveness of the Belgian economy is analysed bipartitely. These analyses are supported by broad civil society, both employers and employees. Minister, does the Belgian Government support this proposal within the Ecofin Council? Does the Belgian Government intend to set up a Belgian Competitiveness Council, given the tradition in our country of bipartite social dialogue and the autonomy of collective bargaining? In what form would the Council be set up? What body would exercise the powers? Will there be any amendment to the statutes of an existing body such as the Planning Bureau, the CRB or the INR? Will the government involve the social partners in this process, knowing that the German Government has already indicated that it is not going to establish a Competitiveness Council because the employers and the DGB are jointly opposed? How will you ensure that the valuable work of the CRB is not undermined by the new body? How will you guarantee the social capacity of the new body in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u3	Mr President, Mr Vanvelthoven, in recent years sufficient attention has been paid to competitiveness and the factors determining competitiveness, especially for a very open economy such as the Belgian economy. Differences in competitiveness have been a major cause of imbalances within the euro area, which we are still struggling with today and which we are trying to address. That is why the European Commission has indeed launched the proposal to follow these developments further. In the context of the so-called Macroeconomic Imbalance Procedure, systematic attention has already been paid to these competitiveness data and elements. The level of expertise in this area and, above all, national structures and practices may differ considerably. They are also effectively quite different from each other. The appropriateness of setting up a new institution focused on such analyses or entrusting a precise mission to one of the existing institutions may therefore be quite different depending on the situation in each Member State. This requires a careful study, in which effectiveness and the prevention of duplication are really important. Heavy administrative procedures should also be avoided. It goes without saying that the powers of each individual, especially the social partners, must be respected in this respect. To sum up, first of all, the feeling of warmth within the government in the proposal is very limited. Secondly, you rightly referred to the German example. The reaction within Ecofin of many Member States to the proposal was not very enthusiastic, to put it very neutrally. We are still a long way from moving in that direction. That's another understatement. The Central Council for Business is doing a good job in this area and should continue to be able to do that job.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for your very clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u5	Minister, I have already raised this issue. There are now controls on the abuse of the reduced VAT rate. In fact, the budget contains a lot of revenue from these additional controls. Last time, you replied to my question that it was a little premature. I have a habit of coming back to it after a while, so today I'm gonna ask my questions again. How exactly does this work? How many people are being used for it? Can you tell us any results yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u6	Mr Vanvelthoven, the purpose of the checks that are now being carried out is, of course, to check the correct application of the reduced rate, 6%, for each of their customers. At the moment, two controllers and two dataminers are constantly working on this. The first regularisation proposals were sent in December 2015. This involved, in conclusion, EUR 40 million in corrections. As the analysis continues, there will of course be more. The latest available figure was 40 million at the end of December.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u7	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I'll check the numbers regularly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u8	Minister, in July, the government communicated the disappointing tax revenue. According to the government, the deficit was due to the reduced VAT rate on electricity. This is remarkable in itself, because in principle these costs should have been included in the tax estimates. The reduced electricity tariff had been in force since April 2014. It goes without saying that there was a cost involved. That was the plan. That's how tax cuts work. They cost money to the government. What was remarkable was that, on top of the cost of the VAT reduction, a deficit of hundreds of millions of euros was identified in the VAT receipts. The monitoring committee's comment on this in July was that it would be mainly an increase in refunds. You then made a table available to the world showing that the cost of the VAT reduction on electricity was derailed by abuse. What I could derive from that table in particular was that the VAT reduction cost exactly what was planned, but that aside. At the heart of the matter is that VAT refunds in the first months of the year were problematically high. The question is, is that still true? If so, what do you do to solve the problem? I would also have liked to have received an overview of the figures for last year's months, the growth compared to 2014 and the nominal amounts of gross receipts, refunds and so-called pure VAT.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u9	Mr Vanvelthoven, I will first give you the table for the first eleven months of last year. We see that after 11 months VAT receipts amount to EUR 36.3 billion, an increase of 1.6 % compared to the same period in 2014. We also see that VAT refunds amount to EUR 12.9 billion. This is an increase of 5.6 % compared to the same period in 2014. This gives in total what is called pure VAT receipts, grossly adjusted for refunds.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u10	What is meant by these returns? What is the definition of return?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u11	Mr President, what the VAT authorities must return to taxable persons on the basis of the declarations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u12	That's quarterly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u13	That depends. There are two possibilities. A taxable person may have to pay or pay VAT. It may also have had such a high level of VAT expenditure that it can recover from VAT. That's the balance, and that's pretty much gone up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u14	Why?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u15	There are several elements. It is clear from the table that the return from September and October will evolve to a normal rhythm. You see a seasonal, relatively repetitive rhythm. The cost of the VAT reduction for electricity was ultimately higher. An amount of EUR 500 million was included. It has yet to be confirmed, but it seems to be moving towards EUR 700 million in the meantime. Part of that has to do with the returns. It was one of the government's reasons for reducing that measure. I look forward to the December figures. I think the returns will evaluate back to a normal historical pattern.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u16	Indeed, it is striking that in May there is a decrease of 27 %. That's huge. By the end of this year, that will normalize itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u17	The effect of a large investment with high invoices and high VAT rates is possible. There were a few cases during the year. If you'd like, I can give you more details on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u18	If that effect is levelled out in December, there is stability on an annual basis. Then it's okay. Peaks in certain months are always possible. The figures have bothered me and you. That's why I'm tracking the cause. If you have any more information about this, you can always provide it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u19	Mr President, Minister, the Council of Ministers of 27 November 2015 decided to amend Article 73.4°quater, of the Royal Decree implementing the Income Tax Code 92 on the list of countries where the common rules on taxation are significantly more favourable than in Belgium. Thirty-three countries have been removed from the list. This includes a series of so-called traditional tax havens. The government's press release states that these countries have increased their corporate taxes. Is there a note with a more detailed explanation of what I read in the press release? Could you make that note available if necessary? Does that note explain country by country? Does it explain how it has been concluded that the tax burden in these countries has been adjusted? Do you have a view of any budgetary impact of the deletion of these thirty-three countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u20	Mr President, Mr Vanvelthoven, you are right to note that, on average, corporate tax rates have fallen worldwide due to increased tax competition. However, this general trend needs to be nuanced, taking into account the coordinated efforts of, inter alia, the OECD and the G20, to identify tax havens. As a result, many countries which did not previously have an income tax system or a system characterised by very low nominal rates have still been put under pressure. The draft royal decree to which you refer, along with a comprehensive report, has been sent to the King's Law Department of the Council of State. The report gives detailed reasons for the way in which the list has been drawn up. The Council of State will examine whether the amendments to the list correspond to the legal basis of the Royal Decree, to which nothing was changed during the current legislature. After the legislative section has drawn up its opinion, it will of course be examined whether or not the draft should be revised. Finally, the Royal Decree will be published in the Belgian Official Journal together with the aforementioned opinion and the aforementioned report. The budgetary impact is nil and actually zero, as the list merely suggests that the countries included in the list have common law provisions which are significantly more favourable than in Belgium. The taxable person can therefore always provide or attempt to supply the counter evidence. In fact, those countries which have left the list already have common law provisions which no longer meet the criteria laid down in the law, which makes this counter-proof relatively easy to provide. The consequences of this list are therefore purely administrative and reduce the administrative burden, on the one hand for some taxpayers who have received dividends from companies established in a country which is now being removed from the list and, on the other hand, for my administration, which will no longer have to prove that some countries have been unjustly excluded from the list.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u21	Thank you, Minister. It is therefore awaiting the opinion of the Council of State, after which we can also have the justification.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u22	Question No 8089 by Mrs Van Cauter has been converted into a written question. Question No 8099 by Mrs Fonck has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u23	Mr President, Minister, in December 2015, the FPS Finance sent 48,605 fines ranging from €50 to €1,250 for non-filing of personal tax returns. Taxpayers who had not yet made their return in the due time had received a reminder at the end of September. As can be seen, many citizens have failed to regularize their situation on time. In 2014, a rate of 3.19% was estimated for taxpayers who had not fulfilled their obligations within the time frame. You will agree, Minister, that the figures for non-declaration are still, unfortunately, too high. However, a whole series of measures have been taken in recent years to limit the number of delays, such as the introduction of the Tax-on-web system, which is now extremely popular. Mr. Minister, the problem of delays in the tax payer's office is a matter of concern. Your services are indeed forced to spend a lot of time and resources to regularize situations, which is detrimental to their functioning and to the public treasury in general. Can you tell me how many reminders were sent at the end of September, and what percentage of taxpayers got in order as a result of that reminder? How much do you estimate the total cost of all these reminders to the Treasury? Are you planning to make new arrangements, in collaboration with your services, to address the issue of non-reporting? Could you give us an overview of what you intend to do, particularly in terms of information, awareness-raising and, if unfortunately necessary, sanctions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u24	Mr.President, Mr. Calomne, with respect to the 2015 tax year, I can tell you that 172,409 reminder letters were sent on September 30, 2015 to taxpayers who had not filed their return within the time limit. The sending of a reminder letter gave them 14 days to file their declaration and avoid sanctions. On November 13, 2015, 89,885 taxpayers, or 52%, who had received a reminder letter at the end of September for failing to file their return had still not regularized their situation. After processing by a taxing agent, 48,605 notices of fine between 50 and 1,250 euros were sent on 15 December 2015 to taxpayers who did not respond to the reminder letter sent for non-filing of personal tax returns. Further notices of fine will also be sent in January 2016, following the processing of the file by taxing agents. The sending of reminder letters for failure to file the tax return has, in recent years, been automated and centralized. For the 2014 tax year, the cost of sending reminder letters and the cost in terms of workload for taxing agents, as regards the follow-up of reminder letters, can be estimated at €685,000. For several years, my administration has intended to increase tax consent by putting in place a preventive approach for taxpayers who do not meet their reporting obligations. This includes, among other things, the sending of reminder letters and the strict application of fines. My administration has an application, which allows the management and automation of the administrative fines process through the centralized sending and recruitment of notices of fines. Furthermore, the Royal Decree of 24 September 2013 introduces a new table of administrative fines so that a fine of EUR 50 is now applicable to the first infringement. In parallel with this computerized and centralized management of reminder letters and administrative fines, my administration communicates and sensitizes taxpayers every year on their reporting obligations, including through press conferences.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u25	Minister, thank you for this additional information. Nevertheless, after many reminders, 50% of taxpayers remain recalcitrant. Even if some of them have good justifications or even are in good faith, this is a considerable amount of work for the tax administration. From a budgetary point of view, this operation is not neutral even if fines are provided for. It's a big cost. We will continue to monitor this issue. I will ask you the question next year, hoping that the figures will be reduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u26	Mr President, Minister, on 17 March 2014, the Supreme Administrative Court of Lithuania referred a question to the Court of Justice of the European Union for a preliminary ruling on the interpretation of Article 168 of Directive 2006/112/EC, better known as the "VAT Directive". The National Court was faced with a dispute between Sveda, which could be termed approximately ASBL, and the national tax inspectorate. The dispute concerned a decision refusing the deduction of VAT paid by Sveda prior to the establishment of a recreational and discovery route for Baltic mythology. Refusing to rule on this highly technical question, the Lithuanian Court therefore referred the following question. If you allow me to do so, I will engulf the terms, so as not to overwhelm it: "Can Article 168 of the VAT Directive be interpreted as conferring on the taxable person the right to deduct the VAT paid upstream, in connection with the production, i.e. the acquisition, of non-current assets intended for commercial activity, which, as in the case in the main proceedings, are directly intended to be used free of charge by the public, but can be recognized as a means of encouraging visitors to come to a place where the taxable person, in carrying out his economic activity, intends to provide goods and/or services?" The judgment of the European Court of Justice has had a significant impact on national VAT collection systems. On 22 October, it considered that a taxable person was entitled to deduct the full amount of VAT, even if the activity subsidized and organised by him is available free of charge to the public – in plain terms, if it is not a producer of VAT – since the goods and services acquired are also necessary for him to carry on activities subject to VAT. In essence, the Court held that Article 168 of the abovementioned Directive "must be interpreted as conferring, in circumstances such as those at issue in the main proceedings, on a taxable person the right to deduct the value added tax paid upstream for the acquisition or production of investment goods for the purposes of a planned economic activity, linked to rural and recreational tourism, which are, on the one hand, directly intended to be used free of charge by the public and, on the other hand, may enable taxed transactions to be carried out, if a direct and immediate link between the expenditure relating to upstream operations and one or more downstream operations eligible for deduction or with the whole economic activity of the taxable person is established, which is for the referring court to verify on the basis of objective elements". Each word is so important and subject to interpretation that I have preferred to quote this opinion in its entirety. This decision would have a significant impact on the non-profit organisations active in the field of culture and tourism and would also enable the organisers of the activities concerned by this decision to lodge a complaint in order to recover the VAT paid in the past. Minister, what interpretation does your administration make of this judgment? Can we consider, on this basis, that an ASBL whose income is derived solely from subsidies and which provides services designed to encourage tourism and economic activity free of charge can benefit from this case law? As far as tourism is concerned, many non-profit organisations are financed exclusively by subsidies and do not ask for any remuneration for their benefits. Many LSAs within the eligibility field would eventually be targeted. Do you confirm that the ASBLs which have organised activities concerned by this judgment will be able to submit an application for refund of VAT? If your answer is negative, why? If it is positive, what will be the terms of the refund? Has the administration already foreseen the possible procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u27	Mr Scourneau, in the judgment referred to, the European Court confronts these principles in the field of right to deduction with the factual circumstances of the case. These concrete circumstances are important, which is why I would like to remind them. Sveda is a taxable person whose activities consist of the provision of accommodation, food and beverage products, the organization of trade fairs, congresses and leisure activities, as well as engineering and consulting related to its activities. The case before the Court concerns the existence of a right to deduct VAT on costs relating to the construction of a recreational route whose access to the public is free of charge for a specified period. The Court considers that there is a direct and immediate link between the expenditure incurred by Sveda and the total economic activity envisaged by Sveda. Indeed, the construction of the recreational route would be a way to attract visitors to provide them with taxed operations through the sale of souvenirs, food products and drinks, and a way to provide them with access to attractions and paid swimming. Where the acquisition or production of capital goods is intended for use by the public free of charge but at the same time is intended for the subsequent performance of taxable transactions by the taxable person, there is, in those circumstances, a right to deduct. The specific case you are referring to, relating to an LSA, must be examined on the basis of the circumstances of the fact. However, an ASBL which provides operations exclusively free of charge and which, for its operation, depends entirely on operating subsidies, does not have the status of taxable person. As a result, it does not qualify for any deduction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u28	Minister, thank you. It must therefore be considered that if an ASBL produces invoices for any type of activity it carries on, it could then benefit from this judgment, i.e. it could deduct VAT on investments it would have made for its overall business policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u29	In the circumstances described in my response. It's a little more nuanced than you say.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u30	Your answer is much less broad.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u31	Mr. Chair, Minister, the case law on the deduction of professional expenses by corporations has undergone significant changes in recent months. Indeed, in its judgments of 12 and 19 June 2015, the Court of Cassation highlighted a new interpretation of articles 49 et seq. of the Income Tax Code (CIR). The Court first of all held that all the income and proceeds of capital and movable property which a commercial company assigns to the pursuit of a professional activity are professional income. It then ruled that it did not result from Article 49 of the IARC 1992 that "the deduction of professional expenses would be subject to the condition that they are inherent in the social activity of the commercial company as it results from its social purpose. " Clearly, it broadens the field. It adds that "the fact that there is no link between a transaction of a company and its social activity or statutory object or the fact that a transaction was carried out for the sole purpose of obtaining a tax advantage does not exclude as such that the costs of such transactions can be accepted as deductible professional expenses". These judgments are surprising. This is a significant change in the legal design of professional fees and could have a significant impact on government tax revenues. The judgements of future courts and tribunals on these issues will determine whether this new interpretation is claimed to be dominant or whether the old, much stricter, concept remains the rule. In any event, these decisions are now a case law that needs to be taken into account. Minister, what interpretation of these judgments of the Court of Cassation is made by your administration? Are you considering amending the legislation on professional fees? If so, how? If this is not the case, what solution would you privilege?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u32	Mr President, dear colleague, as I have already had the opportunity to point out on the occasion of my reply to Parliamentary question No 507 of 7 August 2015 by Mr Peter Vanvelthoven, to which I refer you, my administration was instructed to examine the scope of the relevant judgments of the Court of Cassation. This analysis has been repeated in the context of all the provisions of the Income Tax Code 1992 relating to the deduction of professional expenses in order to adapt the means of defence and control of the administration concerning the deduction of such expenses to corporate tax on the basis of all those provisions, taking into account recent developments in the case law referred to in the question. The question of whether a legislative initiative should be considered in the light of the jurisprudence of the Court of Cassation was also examined. As I mentioned in the anti-fraud plan and notwithstanding the above, I intend to propose to the government a legal provision to appropriately limit the risk of divergence of interpretation of the existing provisions and the resulting legal uncertainty. As I have already pointed out in my answer to the above question, the legal amendment envisaged in the objective I have just made will instead be aimed at adapting the specific provisions to corporate tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u33	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. I had, of course, read the question of my colleague Vanvelthoven. I note that, since then, the position of your administration and your firm has matured somewhat and that things are changing in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u34	Mr President, Minister, my esteemed colleague Gilkinet has already asked questions on this subject, in particular on the amounts. We can see that they are falling, not only because interest rates are falling and the calculation is changing, but also because access to notional interests has been reduced, which is not much discussed. There is a lot of talk about notional interests; it goes in every direction. We are talking about both insignificant amounts and extraordinary amounts. One forgets, however, to wonder how many enterprises benefit from the system, whether large or small, because it concerns these two categories of enterprises. I am interested in how many companies have benefited from these notional interests. And I would like to add a question in relation to the one that has been tabled, and I hope you can answer it. Who says "tax advantage", says "interest"; who says "interest", says "capital" and who says "capital", says "investments". Behind the tax advantage, there are volumes of investments, of which it would be interesting to know exactly the extent. Minister, these are the questions I wanted to ask you: how many companies are involved? And can we quantify the amount of investment generated?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u35	Mr President, Mr Piedboeuf, first of all, I would like to point out that I fully understand your concern about the notional interest or, more specifically, the venture capital deduction. There is a certain fact that this subject had a lot of ink at the time, and even at the present time. In addition, I agree with you that the feedback effects of this type of measure are very difficult to assess. Nevertheless, I draw your attention to the fact that every measure taken to improve the functioning of the economy can never be interpreted independently of other measures. Indeed, it is always a set of measures that strengthens the functioning of an economy, in particular in terms of investment and/or jobs. The venture capital deduction must therefore be interpreted in that sense. More specifically, the above measure was developed at the time in order to strengthen the structure of the capital of enterprises. The main aim was therefore to focus on financing through own funds and not through borrowing. In order to encourage this type of investment, the State has therefore developed a system of deduction for venture capital. Thus, equity financing was treated fiscally on an equal footing with debt financing. It is clear that this measure has shown benefits during the economic and financial crisis of the years 2008-2009. Belgian companies have resisted this crisis better than companies in neighbouring countries. The main purpose of this measure is therefore achieved, as the structure of enterprise capital has improved. With regard to business investment, there is a change in this macroeconomic factor, according to figures from the Plan Office, which I round from 42 billion in 2006 to 58 billion in 2013, representing an average annual growth of 4.8 per cent. This shows that investments progress well during the period when the venture capital deduction was introduced, notwithstanding the economic crisis inevitably accompanied by a substantial fall in investment. Of course, the cost of this measure to the federal budget remains the issue. The most far-fetched figures have been circulated in this regard. Often, these figures were based on the gross impact of this measure, ignoring the fact that the measure has significantly improved the tax base of corporate tax for obvious reasons. Indeed, many companies have no longer transferred their profits abroad. From then on, they were taxed in Belgium. Moreover, by strengthening the Belgian economy, there has been a considerable increase in profits. Of course, during the economic and financial crisis, profits fell in Belgium as in all other countries. This fall had nothing to do with the venture capital measure. In terms of tax statistics, I can tell you that the overall corporate tax has evolved from $11.1 billion in the 2006 tax year to $12.5 billion in 2013. For the 2014 tax year, the total tax is EUR 13 billion. Corporate tax has therefore not fallen, on the contrary. As for the fact that this measure has generated a huge cost, it is not visible in objective facts. Finally, I would like to inform you that the number of companies benefiting from this measure has changed – I am rounding again, Mr Piedboeuf – from 162,000 in fiscal year 2007 to 228,000 in fiscal year 2013.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u36	Minister, these are figures that I am very happy to hear. Instead of chanting all the time the evil you think of notional interests, you'd better see the reality behind it. I am therefore very pleased with your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u37	That's a good measure from Minister Reynders. The numbers show that!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u38	Mr President, I am very tempted to reply to the previous point, but I know that I do not have the right to do so! Mr Minister, in its report on the draft budget of the Federal State for the financial year 2016, the Court of Auditors considers that the appropriation of EUR 26.6 million for the payment of advances in respect of maintenance claims is likely to be insufficient. Indeed, it would not allow the consequences of the increase of the monthly resources ceiling from 1,400 to 1,800 euros below which a maintenance creditor can claim an advance on maintenance. I have already asked you twice in the first half of 2015 about the lack of resources allocated to SECAL (Accounts Service) to deal with this much-needed increase. In January 2015, you indicated, on the basis of a university study, that the additional budget cost was estimated at €8 million. However, between 2014 and 2016, the budget increased by just 2.2 million. In addition, the SECAL Evaluation Committee must, in principle, draw up a report every year for the Ministers of Finance and Budget, but also for the Parliament, since you are responsible for transmitting it to us. However, it appears that no reports have been submitted since 2011 - the last one concerning 2010. Minister, can you tell me how much has been required for the SECAL missions last year? Can you tell me if an assessment of the means required for alimony advances for fiscal year 2016 has been made? What was the amount of this assessment? Was there no need for additional resources to the 26.6 million budgets? Do you confirm that no annual evaluation reports have been published since 2011? When will the reports for the period 2011-2015 be published?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u39	Mr Gilkinet, three questions, three answers. First, an amount of EUR 27.2 million was paid in 2015 as advances. Secondly, a budget of €26.6 million has been foreseen for 2016. Payment of advances is monitored monthly. The necessary steps have been taken within the FPS Finance to ensure that, if this credit is insufficient, the necessary redistributions can be made quickly and that, as in 2015, payments can be made without interruption. Third, the evaluation reports are drawn up by the SECAL evaluation committee. The by-laws for the appointment of members ceased to be in force in 2011. Since then, therefore, the committee has not been convened. I called on my services to set up a new committee as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u40	Minister, thank you. I'll start with your last answer. Indeed, I urge you to do what your predecessors have not done, that is, to appoint members for this evaluation committee. This requires close monitoring. It is essential for many families, especially single-parent families. It is not expensive for public finances, but it is essential for families. I continue to be concerned about the insufficient appropriations that are included in the budget. I take note of your commitment to adjust them as last year, if necessary; I ask you to be more proactive in this matter than you are and not your predecessors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u41	Mr Mathot is not present; his questions Nos 8338 and 8379 are set aside.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u42	Mr President, Minister, in 2014 Limburg and the Kempen were recognised as assisted areas with fiscal favors such as a reduction in the burden of wages. In the vote and consideration of that bill in Parliament, it was decided that an annual evaluation of those measures would be carried out to assess their impact. In the meantime, we have been a year and it is time, in addition to the evaluation of the programme law of the end of 2015, to get a comprehensive overview of these measures. Following the amendment by the Programme Act of late December 2015, the scheme on assisted areas and fiscal favor measures has already been adapted. The law provided, inter alia, that the tax measure on the additional reduction of the wage burden may be granted but if it is linked to a regional investment aid. This was perhaps one of the elements which would hinder the frequent application of the aid measure. This was also expected when the draft law was introduced in 2014. Therefore, the amendment by the Programme Act decoupled that support at the end of December 2015. The regional investment aid therefore does not necessarily have to be linked to the granting of federal aid, i.e. the tax concession and the additional wage reduction. In addition, the Programme Act 2015 also introduced an extension to interim employment. However, an element that still poses a problem is that SMEs are underrepresented in the application of fiscal favor measures. A written question on the evaluation of the support zones and your response to them showed that around 41 applications had been received by the end of 2015 which could lead to 241 jobs. Those applications were apparently unevenly distributed. Only 2 out of 41 applications would relate to SMEs, the rest to large companies located in the assisted areas concerned. In the meantime, the SME advocacy indicated that SMEs have renewed confidence in the government's overall wage relief measures such as the tax shift and fiscal reform, but that 50% of respondents said that they would recruit additional employees in 2016 thanks to its wage reduction policies and measures. Half would therefore have doubts about recruiting additional staff if there were no wage reduction measures. I think that's a lot. The reduction in the wage burden measures therefore have a major impact. We are looking at the impact of the specific measures on the assisted areas. This is an additional reduction in the burden of wages, on top of the tax reform and the tax shift. This could provide additional incentives for recruitment in the assisted areas concerned. In the evaluation we see that for the time being only 2 out of 41 applications from SMEs are submitted. When the draft law was introduced, I had already expected that there would be a difficulty for SMEs to make these applications, given the additional administration and conditions. Mr Minister, could you clarify whether there are any other findings to be made in connection with the regime for the dislocated zones, in addition to the findings I have already mentioned, and in particular the under-representation of SMEs in them? If so, what are the positive and negative findings? Can you explain whether there are still significant differences between large companies and SMEs? Is it true that SMEs find it more difficult to access this system or, on the other hand, do they have better economic prospects in this area? If SMEs find it more difficult to access this system, will you provide for additional measures in the near future? In the recently adopted draft law on tax and various provisions, you have relaxed the scheme around the assisted areas because of the existing barriers, but do you not think that the requirement for companies to be in an industrial area is also an obstacle? The location in an industrial zone was also one of the conditions. I suspect that SMEs are particularly disadvantaged because they are often not located on an industrial site but are located in other areas. Therefore, the requirement to be located on an industrial site is again an obstacle for SMEs to submit an application. Hence my supplementary question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u43	Between 1 May 2015 and 11 January 2016, the FPS Finance received 44 applications for the application of the measures "Devised zones': 41 for the purposes of Article 275, Section 8 for the purposes of the SME's scope and 3 for the purposes of Article 275, Section 9 for the purposes of the large undertakings' scope. The three investments announced by large companies aim to create 237 new jobs, the remaining 473 jobs submitted by SMEs. For a good understanding of these figures, you should know that SMEs are defined for the purpose of applying this measure in a different way than is customary in the Income Tax Code 1992. Of the 41 SMEs that have notified an investment, there is a number that is previously regarded as a large company for the rest of the provisions of the WIB same year. Before further adjustments to this system can be considered, the impact of recent changes should be assessed. It is therefore too early to assess the impact of the changes. It goes without saying that we will do so in the coming period. One of the details of this measure is that the regions are explicitly empowered to define the areas where this aid can be granted. The Region therefore determines within the limits of the law where the aid can be granted. The Act does not require the regions to limit themselves to industrial sites at the time of the demarcation. They are encouraged to do this. The areas to be defined by the Regions must not exceed a maximum population. The choice of such a restriction is not independent of the existence of this measure, in particular the problem of large-scale collective redundancies which have mainly affected our manufacturing industry in the past period. The aim of this limitation is therefore to preserve the aid mainly for industrial projects. So far, I don't really see any reason to limit that limitation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The figures allow for clear, factual findings. It is correct that we had the first adjustments at the end of December. I assume that we can expect another evaluation in a reasonable time to see whether these changes have had a greater impact on the applications for a reduction in the burden of wages and their distribution. As regards the demarcation of industrial sites, I understand that you refer to the regions. For the time being, you see no reason to let go of the link with industrial sites because the initial aim was to focus on the effects of large-scale reorganisations or closures. That is true, but many SMEs are also affected by large collective closures or reorganisations. They are often located on the periphery and therefore not always on industrial sites.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u45	Yeah, that's true.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u46	The initial objective is to mitigate the impact of large industrial sites. However, it is also about all indirect employment. I do not have to tell you that the indirect employment of Ford Genk was almost double that of direct employment. Indirect employment is very often found in SMEs scattered on the periphery, not on industrial sites. The initial objective was indeed the large companies, but it has never been said that the large closures are only about this in terms of support. We live in a large SME country. You repeat that very often in your statements. SMEs create a lot of employment in our country. We must not lose sight of the SMEs in this story and we must look at the effects of the measures, which are good and which I fully support. If, at the next evaluation, we continue to find that there is no increased application from SMEs, I conclude from your figures that the few questions do have significant effects on employment, then these matters must certainly be looked at, as should the release of the restriction to the establishment on industrial sites.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u47	Debates of the European Parliament 8391 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u48	Mr President, Minister, I would like to return to the discussion we had last Thursday in plenary, but with more specific technical questions. At the beginning of January, the European Commission declared the Excess Profit Rulings (EPR) system illegal and called on Belgium to recover from 35 beneficiary multinational companies €700 million as state aid. The documents previously published on DG Competition's website contained 47 relevant files. Finally, 35 files were retained in Commissioner Vestager's final decision. Some sources have estimated the amounts concerned up to EUR 7 billion. The Commission's decision refers to EUR 700 million, which is considered by some to be a minimum amount. Minister, how many excess profits have been granted since the introduction of the system? How many of these EPRs were applicable at the time the Commission launched its investigation in February 2015? What is the reason for the difference between the 47 cases initiated by the European Commission and the 35 finally accepted? How did the European Commission determine the amount of EUR 700 million? What period does it cover? What rules did the Commission look at? Those still in progress in 2015 or those decided since the beginning of the system's existence? You said, in plenary, that you had decided "to stop the show of new excess profit rules". What about the application of the current rules (as long as they are valid for 4 years)? Will companies with an EPR be able to use it for the 2015 fiscal year or is the application of these rules suspended? Within which time, following the decision of the European Commission, will the law concerned be repealed? You also said: "We are also the first country in the European Union to have started to spontaneously exchange the rules, not only the excess profit rules, but also the others." Can you tell me how many rules have been passed on by Belgium to other countries and to which countries? How many gulings has Belgium received on its side? Who is responsible for their treatment within the tax administration? You have suggested that other countries have comparable tax practices and are not prosecuted by the Commission. What country do you think of? Have you taken a specific approach towards the Commission to investigate the practices of these countries? Some colleagues have reported on ongoing investigations by the ISI into excess profit regulation. Do you confirm this state of affairs? Where appropriate, what is the status of such investigations? Do they continue in parallel with the investigation conducted by the European Commission? What is the continuation of the procedure? You said that the dialogue was continuing with the Commission. How? When, if necessary, do you have to meet with the representatives of the Commission? Finally, has this issue been discussed at the last ECOFIN meeting in which you were attending on Thursday? We haven't debriefed yet, Mr. President. Have any decisions been made in this regard? Which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u49	Mr President, Minister, in the context of this system of excess profit rules, have you decided whether or not to challenge the decision of the European Commission? If you haven't made your decision yet, can you tell me when you'll make it? Would this mechanism, which is considered illegal under European law, not also be illegal in its practice in relation to Article 185(2) of the Tax Code, i.e. in relation to the law itself? Article 185(2)(b) provides that "excess profit regulation shall apply where profits in the profits of a company are taken from profits which are also taken from the profits of another company (...)". Therefore, if Article 185(2) is strictly read, a deduction can only be obtained in a Belgian company if the subsidiary of the same group abroad has been taxed on the same profits. In practice, however, the Advance Rulings Service does not look at what is happening in the other subsidiary. My question is, therefore, the following. Is the practice of the Advance Rulings Service not illegal in that it does not comply with Article 185(2)?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u50	Minister, if there is anything that strikes me, it is that hypocritical behaviour of certain colleagues. Since 2011, I have challenged the legality of what happened to the excess profit rulings. In 2015, I repeated that again and at the end of that meeting, including Mr Van Biesen, I was wiped out of my cloak, saying that it is unheard of that I blamed the representatives of the ruling committee. I got it right. I said verbatim in 2011 that these practices would not pass the test of European state aid rules. For far too long the secrecy has been maintained. With all due respect, those responsible for the FPS Finance and the ruling committee have withheld all information on this matter. As Mr Van Hees said, they behaved in a way that was contrary to the law. I now have five questions that all aim to bring transparency to the dossier, which can have a very important impact on the country. In 2011, sp.a was not part of the majority. That was the case in 2013 and since 2015 we are once again in the opposition. But whether I was a member of the opposition or of the majority, I have always asked for more transparency. I hope that this transparency will be given to me now thanks to your answer to these questions. Firstly, how many overprofits have been closed since the introduction of Article 185 of the Income Tax Code 1992? Second, how many overprofits have been delivered since October 2014? Thirdly, what is the taxable basis which has been exempted as an excess profit since the introduction of Article 185 of the Code on Income Tax? Fourthly, the European Commission has examined 47 rulings, with 35 of them proving to have a problem. What does that mean for the remaining 12 overprofits? What conclusions, with 35 which are a problem and 12 which are not, can be drawn from them? Finally, Minister, you are talking about further negotiations with the European Commission. You raised a hint of the veil last Thursday in plenary, but I would like to hear from you what you really want to negotiate with the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u51	Gentlemen, I refer in advance to the answer I gave in plenary last week. Mr Gilkinet quoted that. I've been asked for numbers. In this regard, I would like to make it clear that we are currently studying all the files one by one to see what is happening. That includes your question and that of others, Mr Van der Maelen, about the 47 rulings, of which 35 are problematic for the Commission. On the other hand, it appears that most of the 12 other rulings were not used. In other words, the European Commission would not have asked questions about this because those rulings were never actually implemented. I'll say that subject to reservation. We started the analysis last week, with the necessary legal assistance. It is a complex matter and I would not like to make statements which I have to make too much of afterwards. As soon as I am clear about it, I am, of course, prepared to give the committee full access to it. I ask you to give me a few more days to better define the different aspects. It is possible to appeal. We have a period of two months. An in-depth discussion is still needed within the government, before making a decision on this matter. I find, in the light of the various legal opinions transmitted to me, that an appeal can be sound. Indeed, it seems that the file put on the table by the Commission contains quite a few shortcomings at the judicial level. I do not claim that this is indeed the case; I am simply saying that, according to some expert counsel, there are many shortcomings in the Commission's decision. I come to the question of whether or not to pursue certain rules. In this context, there is also a very complicated legal situation. We are currently looking at exactly what is happening. I will report on this as soon as things are clarified. In relation to the taxable basis, it is clear that a very complex situation will arise. I mentioned it in plenary, the ruling states that there is an agreement on how the tax will proceed. Take that rule away, which would happen if we followed the European Commission, then there are subtractions that have not happened because of the existence of the ruling, which will have to be discussed at least again. The establishment of the final taxable basis is a complex fact and differs from file to file. I'll finish up here. I have been incomplete, I admit, but, as I have said, I will come back to the figures on the right nature as soon as I myself have clear figures. I'd rather do that than give some vague descriptions now, which, in the end, make you nothing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u52	Indeed, the minister forgot to answer several questions that were asked. Your answers are as imprecise as my questions were specific, minister. Partly, I can understand; it's a complex file, it takes a little time. So tell us when we can re-ask the question, but it seems to me that within fifteen, you should be able to answer these questions by virtue of democratic transparency. Indeed, I cannot understand that in relation to such a sensitive legal system in charge of a department of your administration, in this case the ruling department, there is no more precise information on their impact in real time. We are legislating in the fog, it has a very high cost to public finances, it brings very high profits for some multinationals, and the Minister of Finance knows nothing. This is still worrying, beyond the political approach that is yours, which is also worrying. I think that you continue to make a mistake by favouring - as you feel today even if you have not made it clear - the way of contestation. I think, however, that it would be more useful for Belgium to cooperate in a tax system that is more transparent at European level and more respectful of the interests of all States and therefore of all these citizens. The only winners in this area are the few companies that do tax shopping between states. I consider that this dossier must constitute an electroshock. That is why I will repeat the same question, to which I did not have an answer today. I hope that the next time it is on the agenda, you will give us more precise answers. That is a minimum, minister, beyond our political disagreements. You must be able to inform me objectively of the situation. Depriving us of accurate information is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u53	I also wanted to point out that the minister forgot to answer my question. That's the problem with the attached questions. My question was whether the application of advance rulings by the department is not illegal. It is contrary to Article 185(2). You wouldn't have forgotten to read a sheet, who would have slipped into your farce? No, I conclude that you don't want to answer my question. This would mean that this is a delicate question. This illegality seems likely because this question bothers you. It is problematic that you do not answer such an essential question. There is a link between the possible and probable illegality of the application of Article 185(2) by the advance rulings department and the decision of the European Commission. She says there's a double non-taxation. This double non-taxation is the consequence of this incorrect application of Article 185(2). There is therefore a very strong link between illegality in relation to European rules and illegality in relation to the Belgian Tax Code. This is challenging. I believe that your failure to answer this question is unacceptable. This issue is essential in this burning issue today. I come to the argument that you are reassuring, that there is a risk that this will cost the state more. Companies whose profits would be put at risk would file a complaint against Belgium. This argument is not operational. Indeed, it is clearly stated in the rules of the ruling that it is subject to both Belgian law and European directives. Companies receiving a ruling know that it is dependent on its compliance with European rules and Belgian law. So they knew what to stick to and your argument doesn't hold.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u54	Mr President, the Minister cannot give us much figures. I can only partially understand that. My fellow Members and I have asked questions about an investigation that the European Commission started in mid-2015. I can only assume that the administration has already started preparing its file to prepare a thorough discussion with the Commission. I do not understand why the Minister is not yet able to provide figures in response to some of the questions. I can still understand other questions. I am surprised at that. How do we proceed with the file now? We can, like Mr Gilkinet, put a question, which will bring the subject up again next week. I suggest that we give the Minister a few weeks to draw up a good note in response to all our questions. We can have a separate debate on it. We also have time to look at that note before we debate it. The classic way is that we sit here and ask questions. The Minister gives information and we have to respond à la minute. This is not conducive to a smooth debate. Mr President, give the Minister some time to make an in-depth note, which he submits to the committee, and arrange a time for a debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u55	This morning we had an exchange of views on the international financial situation. A similar debate on excess profit rulings is possible on Tuesday 2 February 2016 at 2 p.m. So we have fourteen days to look at any new elements and leave the path of question and answer. I hope the Minister will be able to say more. If that is not the case, then everyone must draw their political conclusions from it. As chairman, I propose to follow Mr Van der Maelen's suggestion. We will start the meeting on 2 February next with an exchange of views. The questions raised may then be integrated into the exchange of views. I assume that we will no longer discuss this in plenary. I mean that we will be discussing the same thing again in plenary on Thursday, but it is obviously not up to us to decide on this. I'd think it was a little weird.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u56	Mr President, I cannot commit to the plenary session. If there are new elements by Thursday, it is possible that we will return to the subject in plenary. A priori, no, because I think we have already said a lot in plenary and we have already gone to the end of what we could do in plenary. But frankly, I ask the minister to give us the figures that he should have. That's the least I can do. A period of fifteen days seems reasonable to me, even though I regret that I did not have the answers to the questions asked today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u57	Minister, do you agree?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u58	I agree with the suggestion of February 2, 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u59	Mr President, Minister, I have been questioned on several occasions by parents, whose child is not a student, but a learner. As a result, they were corrected and corrected in their tax returns. The assessment is different on the status of young people in apprenticeship contracts with regard to the tax benefits that parents can benefit from. According to the tax administration, the apprenticeship contract is not a student occupation contract within the meaning of Title VII of the Labour Contracts Act 1978. The parents of a young learner are therefore not entitled to benefit from Article 143 CIR 92, which states that: "In determining the net amount of resources, the remuneration received by the students referred to in Title VII of the Law of 3 July 1978 on employment contracts shall be disregarded, up to a maximum of EUR 2,590 per year." (indexed and for 2015) According to the legal services of the vocational training institutes: "The learner will no longer be considered a dependant if his income (net resources) exceeds the amounts fixed by the administration of the contributions. The maximum amount of net resources is EUR 3 120 per year if the learner is dependent on both parents and EUR 4,500 if the learner is dependent on an isolated parent." Minister, can you confirm or reverse these differences of appreciation? Another point is not clear. If this income is considered to be taken into account, the parent may no longer be able to account for it as a dependant when professional expenses are incurred to go to the place of learning. Can the learner deduct, for example, travel expenses, etc.- Is that what you're saying? I wonder, in view of the situation of young people at present, about the need to encourage training and the use of formative circuits, which leave the classical circuit. Is this not a discriminatory situation that should be corrected? If not, what are the arguments that justify such a difference?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u60	Mr President, Mrs Gerkens, in order to determine the net amount of resources, the remuneration received by students under a student occupation contract up to a maximum amount of 2,600 euros for the 2016 tax year, income 2015. Remuneration received under an apprenticeship contract cannot be classified as remuneration received under a student occupation contract, so that it is always taken into account in determining the net amount of resources. It goes without saying that if a student has collected both remuneration in execution of an apprenticeship contract and remuneration in execution of a student occupation contract, the exclusion of resources up to a maximum of 2,600 euros will apply but only for the part of the remuneration received in execution of the student occupation contract. Since the situation of learners under apprenticeship contracts is completely different from that of students performing work under a student occupation contract, I do not see how a different treatment of these two types of remuneration is discriminatory.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u61	Minister, it is true that these two types of remuneration are different in nature. Nevertheless, these young people are in training, as are normal students, although it is true that they receive small allowances. One knows, when one looks at the population statistically, that it is often also the households with the lowest incomes, etc., that are concerned. I have no doubt that the situation is different. However, I question the fact of considering, since they are young people who are learning and who receive income related to this learning, that they are automatically no longer dependent and that parents can no longer benefit from support, including through the tax tool. However, these are forms of alternance training, with a very specific situation but which it would be interesting to correct. Through your reply, Minister, I would like to invite you, in addition to the fact that there is discrimination or no discrimination in view of the different nature of the activity or income, to consider whether there is discrimination in the course of these young people and in the support that can be given to parents through the tax tool. I will come back with any proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u62	Now a series of merged questions follows. I'd like to make a distinction. Your question No. 8414 is about the results of the BBI, Mr Vanvelthoven. The other questions concern tax regularisation or amnesty. Mr Vanvelthoven, you may put your three questions consecutively.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u63	Mr Minister, my first question is a little longer ago and concerns figures following the instructions of the BBI almost a year ago, which we discussed a great deal in this committee and in plenary. How many files were handled by the BBI in 2015 on the basis of the instruction of 29 January 2015? How many files are still under processing? In how many cases were the deadlines extended to seven years? How many files contain an unjustified initial balance? What is the total amount of amounts actually recovered in the handled files and the total amount of established tax supplements? Are the results of the files processed in 2015 on the basis of this instruction included in the general statistics of the results of the FBI? Another question concerns the opinion of the Hearing Officer at the Council of State which has become public. Mr Van der Maelen just mentioned warning on time. We have constantly said throughout the discussion that the instruction was not lawful. We have also said to the majority that this should not be done by means of an instruction but by means of a legislative initiative. The sad thing in my view is that we were thrown away by the Minister. I was just checking it out. He speaks of extremely unbelievable, laughable. The chairman of the committee in a blog that is still available is talking about outrageous accusations, demagogy, deception of public opinion in this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u64	It can't always be the N-VA.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u65	Mr President, that is not necessary. However, if you acknowledge today that the words you used at the time were not only misplaced but simply not correct. There is no judgment or judgment of the Council of State auditor yet. That's obvious. Today we are talking about more than just a political reflection of an opposition party. This also concerns the opinion of an auditor at the Council of State who concludes that the instruction is illegal and illegal. Minister, you have already given an initial response. You say that the government will not return to completed files. You also speak of legal certainty. In my view, however, legal certainty has the certainty that the law is being applied. You are now using the word legal certainty to give certainty about something that is illegal. That's a very weird twist in your head. That is why I have tabled additional questions. In addition to what we have read in the press, can you explain a little more about the way you are looking at the case today?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u66	Mr Minister, my question concerns the same subject, the preliminary ruling or the auditory report, which indicates that the internal instruction of the BBI is unlawful. Two cases are cited in that auditor's report. First of all, the instruction deviates from the applicable tax increase of 100 % on capital not indicated in the first one-off release declaration of 2004. Secondly, there is also an important reference in that report to the fact that the administration does not have the power to unilaterally derogate from the sanctions provided for, namely the tax increase provided for in the WIB, and that that power belongs to the King. We have already read that some 400 files have been dealt with for the time being and that 1 200 are still in the pipeline and are therefore being dealt with. In the meantime, you have already said that, as a result of that auditory report, you have taken the decision to put the current files on hold. For the time being, therefore, that internal instruction will no longer be applied. However, I would also like to point out that this internal instruction was the basis for the inclusion of EUR 70 million in the March 2015 budgetary control as a result of the fight against tax fraud. Of course, there is also a contradiction in budgetary terms. There will be consequences. I have a number of questions about the inclusion and further handling of both the dossiers and those that are still in the pipeline in the future. I know that this is only an auditorate report and that there is no final judgment yet, but the fact that you have decided to put this on hold means that you are taking that auditorate report seriously yourself. You make a provisional decision on the basis of that auditory report, which precedes the final judgment of the Council of State. My questions are as follows. Firstly, can you say what could happen if the Council of State followed the hearing officer for the 400 completed files? Is the legal treatment of those finished files compromised? What will be the result? Will the taxpayers concerned be able to be called again by the tax authorities in these 400 completed files? Will the attacks be preserved or not? How's that? Secondly, can you also clarify how much the taxes collected in these files amount to? What amounts have been collected? Thirdly, can you explain the consequences for the approximately 1 200 files that are currently pending treatment? Does the application or the submission of a file count to be able to rely on the unholdd instruction or does the on-hold placement of new files mean that effective treatment can no longer be followed on the basis of the instruction? Should the attacks which are still pending not be reviewed with a view to the application of the 100 % rule? Fourthly, what is the expected impact on state revenue and therefore on our budget estimates? Can you clarify how much has already been collected on the basis of the internal instruction? Can you tell me how you wish to proceed with this dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u67	Minister, a few months ago, my group warned you that the internal memorandum addressed to the tax administration, which allowed tax regularization on a permanent basis at particularly low rates, was not lawful, and that it was derogating from the regulatory framework. The Sp.a. decided to refer the case to the Council of State, which is clearly on its side. Similarly, the auditor of the Council of State considers that this circular is contrary to the law and that the tax administration has gone too far. Let us remember that you also wanted to "whiten" this situation by having a tax regularization vote at the end of last year - a project that was withdrawn, since you had not bothered to consult the Regions and the Walloon government did not agree with what the federal government was proposing. Obviously, the majority is in a hurry to bring into force a permanent regulation, unless you misunderstand me in this regard. Minister, do you confirm this information? What are you going to do about the ongoing files? Can you tell us how many files have been filed and what the amounts are? When you came to commission this instruction around mid-March 2015, you took on your responsibility. How many files have been filed since this committee meeting, where you were in the presence of the ISI administrator? Don't you see a sign that you're not on the right track and that you might want to give up the idea of permanent regularization and return to a legal framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u68	Mr President, Minister, I have also read the opinion of the auditor of the Council of State. Even if this is not yet a decision of the Council of State, this opinion is very problematic in relation to this circular, which organises, on a non-legal basis, the continuation of tax regularization. Minister, do you confirm this opinion of the auditor of the Council of State? When must the dossier be the subject of a final judgment of the Council of State? How many files, and for what amount, were processed on the basis of this circular? What will happen to these files? Will there be a rectification a posteriori? Do you confirm the suspension of this circular? Has clear instruction been given to tax services in this regard? When and in what form?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u69	I'll give you the numbers first. On 11 January 2016, 1 598 files had been submitted. Of these, 384 have been dealt with. So there's a stock of 1 214 files. I would like to point out that we now only know the opinion of the auditor of the Council of State and that, in any event, we still have to wait for the final judgment of the Council of State itself. Having said that, a lot of the questioners start from the assumption that the hearing officer's opinion will be followed. I will therefore get my answers to the hypothesis that the Council of State will follow the hearing officer. I could also have replied to any question that the question is not on the agenda, because there is no statement from the Council of State yet, but that would not be serious. You know I always try to inform the committee as best I can. I would like to make that quite clear in advance. We have read the auditor's opinion, although it may be necessary to wait some time, probably several months, for the judgment to be delivered. As a precaution, I instructed my administration, the ISI, not to process new files on the basis of this internal instruction. Firstly, what are the consequences for the 384 files handled? Legally speaking, the basis of the attacks, which were brought forward at the request of and by explicit agreement of the taxpayers, is not based on the instruction but on the tax codes. The attacks were often paid immediately for the purpose of obtaining a certificate. No payment from the VAT Code or from the WIB 92 or implementing acts is contested by the Council of State. Only the instruction, the purpose of which is to ensure uniform application of the provisions of the WIB 92, the WIB 92, the VAT Code and its decisions, is the subject of an action for annulment before the Council of State. Not the instruction, but the tax codes form the basis for spontaneous corrections. An instruction shall, in principle, contain only measures of internal order intended exclusively for the officials concerned. It cannot be regarded as a formal source of law and has no value whatsoever and does not bind the courts or courts. Taxation is therefore valid in law. The nullity of a tax is not in fact assumed. It must be established. The appeal period is a time limit which cannot be extended, except in cases of force majeure. Once the deadline has expired, the tax is final and irrevocable. The tax is considered to be legally due, even if the enrolment has not been regular. Even a possible lack of knowledge of the principles of good administration by the administration, which for the taxpayer did not lead to a situation of force majeure, does not change it. (Cass., 16 February 2007). From a general point of view, it seems unlikely that the taxpayer who has spontaneously requested a correction of his statement will challenge his voluntarily paid tax. He should then question the agreement which he himself concluded.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u70	Mr President, Minister, I understand that nothing is going on. If the Council of State follows the hearing officer's advice, there is nothing to worry about, then you will continue. That is what I understand from your answer. So it's all based on the law, but that's just the point. The point is that in the instruction tax increases were mentioned that were contrary to the law. That is also the point on which the hearing officer's opinion is concerned. You're now saying that you're putting that right next to you, that it's based on the law, period. I don't understand. You are creating an illegal situation, pending the decision of the Council of State, and you confirm that illegal situation and say that you can continue with it. I find that attitude in itself bizarre and incomprehensible. I have to consider what we are going to do about it. A minister who allows illegal cases, that in itself can't. In addition, you are defending that illegal attacks have been carried out which are lower than those prescribed by the law. At least that's what I'm assuming, based on that instruction. Today, you are defending once again that the illegal situations you have created are confirmed. Surely that is a mockery of our rule of law. I read in the press that the files are on hold, but I now understand from your reply that the unfinished files are simply being dealt with further. So there's nothing on hold, you're just going to keep going, that's what I understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u71	No new files are being handled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u72	It is, because the files under discussion have not yet been accepted. I fully agree with you that if a spontaneous declaration is made, it is logical that the tax authority should deal with it, that taxes should be levied on it and that the tax increases provided for in the law should apply, but not those provided for in the instruction. But you say here today that the tax authorities must of course accept this spontaneous declaration, but that the tax increase will be applied on the basis of the instruction. I can't do that, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u73	Mr Minister, there are more than 300 files that have been processed. You also spoke of EUR 60 million. Then there are 1 200 files that have not yet been processed. I think Mr Vanvelthoven's question is whether it will be dealt with in the next few months. You're saying there won't be any new files, is that outside the 1 200?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u74	Of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u75	Those 1 200 files are handled according to (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u76	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u77	You conclude before the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u78	I conclude what I said a year ago, what we have motivated in detail here and what the auditor now confirms, not the Council of State. Acting like nothing's changed now is bizarre. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u79	Something is changing, in particular that we no longer accept new dossiers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u80	No, but you now know the hearing officer's report and you know that according to the hearing officer, what you are doing is illegal. You say that you are going to treat the 1 200 files, which the auditor says is illegal if they are treated in the same way. That's what you're saying today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u81	I gave my answer, Mr Vanvelthoven. We clearly disagree on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u82	I think we will have a few more meetings on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u83	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. There have been a number of additional clarifications to my questions. Mr Vanvelthoven said it too. Apparently, the files in the pipeline are being handled further. Your decision for the on-hold placement also applies only to new files for which no application and notification has yet been submitted. You have also said that attacks, including those already dealt with, are based on the legal provisions. However, the handling of spontaneously declared capital on the basis of the instruction is slightly different from the initial assessment. I am indeed ahead of a possible judgment of the Council of State. We have to wait for that first, but if the Council of State ruling follows the hearing officer, then I think there is a problem with the files that have already been dealt with. You rightly say that the attack is based on the law, but with the actual decision and payment on the basis of the instruction and the spontaneous declaration, there is a problem with legality. Suppose that the instruction would be annulled because not everything would have been paid on the basis of an original attack in the actually handled files. There will therefore be a difference between what the attack establishes and what was ultimately paid after negotiation based on the instruction. I am convinced that there will be a problem if the auditor's report is followed up. I also note the amount already collected of just over EUR 62 million. Of this, EUR 59 million has already been paid. The examination of the Board of State of the auditor's report will have an impact on the final statement and initial budget estimate. We are monitoring this file and any progress from the administration closely. There is still a lack of clarity, including with regard to the dossiers that I believe have been paid and dealt with. Usually there will be less paid than what is in the attack.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u84	Mr President, Minister, we find ourselves in a very complicated situation. Indeed, a number of cases have already been dealt with on an illegal basis, which obviously poses a problem in terms of the equality of citizens before the law. Some files have been processed on the basis of a circular that is considered illegal. This means that we are in a country where taxpayers have been treated in accordance with the law, unlike others. That's a first problem. A second problem is the stock, namely the 1,214 files. The minister tells us that these files will be dealt with on the basis of an instruction dated July 2, 2014. I do not know, at this stage, the content of this circular. I think, however, that we no longer have a choice. From the time the ISI Circular is considered illegal, the 1,214 files must be dealt with in accordance with the law and regulations in force strictly. This obviously puts the taxpayer and the administration in a somewhat difficult situation because, if people made spontaneous statements, it was on the basis of the signal that they had received from the administration that they would be treated more favourably, in a way that was derogatory to the existing legislation. If we put ourselves in the place of these taxpayers, they think that ultimately it is a deceit market and that they find themselves trapped, since they were told that their case would be dealt with in a more favourable way. But the Council of State will, more than likely, follow its auditor and tell the administration that it must respect the law. However, the first duty of the administration is to comply with the Constitution and to respect the laws. This is the first duty of any civil servant. The administration therefore has no choice but to respect the law. If she doesn't, she makes a mistake. If the tax administration insists on continuing to apply a derogation, taxpayers will obviously not bring an appeal or a complaint. This is not in their interest because they are offered a discount tax. But this poses another problem which must then be studied legally. What happens when an administration deliberately fails to comply with the law? We are here in a very complicated case. A solution must be found that preserves the tax administration. Another problem, of civil liability, can of course arise. Imagine a taxpayer who has been told to submit his file so that it is rectified in accordance with a certain circular, then to depart from it because it is considered illegal and, finally, to apply the law. The said taxpayer will then be led to think that he was "sold" something that did not exist and that he was deceived, considering that he suffered damage. In other words, it considers that the State has committed a fault and seeks damages. In my opinion, we need to take the time to better analyze the situation. The tax administration should not be put in trouble. In view of the explanations given, I do not know very well whether the 1,214 stock files will be processed in accordance with the law and nothing but the law or whether they will still be dealt with specifically. In my view, clarification must be given in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u85	Mr President, Minister, the situation is unfortunately deliberately Kafkaian. With respect to the 384 files, you practice the fait accompli policy by indicating that they could be reviewed in the event of a claim by the taxpayers concerned. But if the latter had obtained a preferential regime to regularize an illegal situation, they would be wrong, from a strictly personal and financial point of view, to appeal. I am therefore convinced that there will be no appeal. With regard to the 1,214 latent files, you said that an old circular would be applied. Is the latter more legal than that called into question by the auditor of the Council of State? We don't know. We don't know about the future either. The only criterion that should be applied in the area of regularization is that of tax justice. In other words, the tax owing must be paid and those who have defrauded must be penalized. We need to deter fraud. In doing so, the application of a fine is normal. Research by the tax administration into the origin of regularised funds, which is fundamental to regularisation, must also be guaranteed. These are the only criteria that will allow us to assess the accuracy of the solutions you propose. I believe that the situation in this area is, to say the least, unclear, which I regret because you are creating legal uncertainty, which is in addition to tax injustice. This is a fact that we denounce.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u86	Mr President, by looking at this issue, and by linking it to a matter that was discussed earlier, namely the excess profit ruling, I would say that non-compliance with the law is almost becoming a Belgian specialty! In both cases, we do not respect the law. This poses a serious problem with regard to taxation. Let us recall that the Constitution says that there are no privileges in tax matters. Increasingly, there is a feeling that there are a lot of privileges. However, I and other colleagues, we have long warned you, Minister, that the practice of administration is illegal with regard to administrative regulation. Today we see the result. We are in an insoluble situation. It is difficult to go back to those who have received a decision. But there is a disparity with the simple citizen who has not benefited from it. These ways of doing things have put us in a very complicated situation where you may encounter difficulties and recourse. Beyond these considerations, we must be able to take a critical look at these tax amnesty operations. We started with a first DLU. The "U" represented the word "unique", but we started again, with a DLU bis a DLU ter and an illegal administrative DLU. Now, there's a permanent DLU project, which itself has failed. All these amnesty operations demonstrate a constant flouting and, in my view, send a very bad signal to potential fraudsters. Mr Minister of Finance, since Mrs Sleurs has given you the responsibility for the fight against tax fraud, you are giving a bad signal to the fraudsters: whatever they do, they can be amnestied. This is an opportunity to return to the principle of these tax amnesties and to abandon your idea of permanent DLU.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u87	We shall certainly come back to that. One of the points of discussion is what falling back on legislation means. You have said a few times that the Council of State destroys the instruction, but what does it fall back to? I read that Vande Lanotte says relapse means 100 percent. The 2003 legislation on the one-off release declaration then included that percentage in the law in case the declaration was not made in time. However, the question is whether it still applies. That is one of the questions that still needs to be answered. It is an important question and we do not seem to have an answer to it, but it needs to be asked. We will certainly come back to that in the next few days.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-01-19-54-commissie-ic311x.u88	Questions Nos 8413 by Mrs Smaers and 8420 by Mr Dedecker are postponed and will be taken first next Tuesday.
