ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents this afternoon, I propose: In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents at this noon, I propose that: to enter the following items on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: to include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the following items: - the draft law approving the General Cooperation Agreement between the Kingdom of Belgium and the Republic of Guinea, done at Conakry on 5 January 2016, Nos 1960/1 to 3; - the draft law approving the following international instruments: 1. The General Rules of the World Postal Association, done in Doha on 11 October 2012; 2. The World Postal Convention and Final Protocol, done in Doha on 11 October 2012; 3. The Agreement on Payout Services of the Postal Service, done at Doha on 11 October 2012, Nos 1961/1 to 3; - the draft law on the merger of the Fund for Accidents at Work and the Fund for Occupational Diseases, No. 1958/1. - the draft law approving the General Convention on Cooperation between the Kingdom of Belgium and the Republic of Guinea, done at Conakry on 5 January 2016, Nos. 1960/1 to 3; - the draft law approving the following international acts: 1. The General Regulation of the Universal Postal Union, done at Doha on 11 October 2012; 2. The Universal Postal Convention and its Final Protocol, done at Doha on 11 October 2012; 3. The Agreement Concerning Postal Payment Services, made at Doha on October 11, 2012, Nos. 1961/1 to 3; - the draft law on the merger of the Workers' Compensation Fund and the Occupational Diseases Fund, No. 1958/1. to enter the following items on the agenda for tomorrow's plenary session before noon: to include in the agenda of tomorrow morning's plenary session the following items: - the motion for a resolution (Mrs Els Van Hoof and Mr Sarah Claerhout and Mr Peter Luykx, Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Mr Tim Vandenput and Mr Richard Miller) on the presidential elections in the Democratic Republic of Congo, Nos 1887/1 to 8; - the motion for a resolution (Mrs Els Van Hoof and Mrs Sarah Claerhout) on the presidential elections in the Democratic Republic of Congo, Nos 1563/1 and 2; - the motion for a resolution (Mr Peter Luykx) on elections in Congo, No. 1583/1; - the legislative proposal (Mrs Rita Gantois and Mr Veerle Wouters, Mr Luk Van Biesen, Mrs Leen Dierick, Mrs Nathalie Muylle and Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 as regards the tax credit for low activity income, Nos 1572/1 to 9; - the legislative proposal (Mrs Veerle Wouters) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 as regards the submission of an objection, Nos 211/1 to 4; - the draft law (Mr Peter Vanvelthoven and Mr Dirk Van der Maelen) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 as regards the submission of an objection, No. 434/1, - the motion for a resolution (Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux and Mr Richard Miller, Mr Denis Ducarme, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Olivier Chastel, Mr Roel Deseyn, Mr Gautier Calomne and Mr Vincent Scourneau) on the reduced VAT rate for digital books, Nos 1067/1 to 5; - the legislative proposal (Mrs Carina Van Cauter, Mr Luk Van Biesen, Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and Mr Benoît Piedboeuf) concerning the duty-free allowance for children in the case of co-parenting, Nos 860/1 to 4; - the draft law amending Article 127 of the Act of 13 June 2005 on electronic communications and Article 16/2 of the Act of 30 November 1998 regulating the intelligence and security services, No. 1964/1; - the draft law amending Article 8 of the Law of 24 July 1987 on temporary work, temporary work and the provision of workers for the benefit of users, with a view to abolishing the 48-hour rule and extending the possibility of recourse to electronic temporary work contracts, Nos 1944/1 to 4. - the motion for a resolution (Ms Els Van Hoof and Sarah Claerhout and MM. Peter Luykx, Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Tim Vandenput and Richard Miller) on the presidential elections in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Nos. 1887/1 to 8; - the motion for a resolution (Ms Els Van Hoof and Sarah Claerhout) on the presidential elections in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Nos. 1563/1 and 2; - the motion for a resolution (Mr Peter Luykx) on elections in the Congo, No. 1583/1; - the draft law (Ms. Rita Gantois and Veerle Wouters, Mr. Luk Van Biesen, Ms. Leen Dierick, Nathalie Muylle and Caroline Cassart-Mailleux) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 with regard to the low-income tax credit, Nos. 1572/1 to 9; - the proposal for a law (Ms Veerle Wouters) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 with regard to the introduction of a written complaint, Nos. 211/1 to 4; - the bill (MM. Peter Vanvelthoven and Dirk Van der Maelen) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 with regard to the introduction of a written complaint, No. 434/1; - the motion for a resolution (Ms Caroline Cassart-Mailleux and MM. Richard Miller, Denis Ducrame, Benoît Piedboeuf, Olivier Chastel, Roel Deseyn, Gautier Calomne and Vincent Scourneau) on the reduced VAT rate on e-books, Nos 1067/1 to 5; - the draft law (Ms. Carina Van Cauter, Mr. Luk Van Biesen, Ms. Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and Mr. Benoît Piedboeuf) on the tax exemption for children in the context of co-parentality, Nos. 860/1 to 4; - the draft law amending article 127 of the Act of 13 June 2005 on electronic communications and article 16/2 of the Act of 30 November 1998 on the Organization of the Intelligence and Security Services, No. 1964/1; - the draft law amending article 8 of the Law of 24 July 1987 on temporary work, temporary work and the provision of workers to users, with a view to abolishing the 48-hour rule and extending the possibility of using electronic temporary employment contracts, Nos. 1944/1 to 4. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u3	Mr. President, you went a little fast for me. Did you mention the point that was pending?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u4	No. These are various provisions on terrorism (Bill 1951). In this regard, we are waiting until tomorrow morning or later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u5	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Van Hoof, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u6	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this Convention is fully integrated into the law of 19 March 2013, which we would like to welcome. That is why we will support, as we have done in committee, this Convention, which sets out the framework for our future partnership with this so-called "fragile" country. In addition to the remarks I made and the questions I asked in the Committee on Food Security and Sexual and Reproductive Rights, among others, I would like to point out that we should welcome the links that already exist between our country and Guinea, particularly in the context of cooperation with Brussels Airlines, the actions carried out in collaboration with our NGOs on the ground and in the framework of Belgium's action to combat the Ebola epidemic, which has particularly affected this country. There is a question here of a Belgian 3D response which, in the future, should become the norm whenever it is justified. The text before us reflects the expertise that this crisis has brought to our country. The aim is to draw lessons for all the departments involved. The Belgian intervention proves, if this is still necessary, the importance of the B-FAST dome in such humanitarian and health emergencies, whose audit results we are still waiting for in order to be able to examine calmly the future which should be reserved for this cell which is important for our cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u7	Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Grovonius for her speech, which follows on from the one she held in committee. I also thank the various groups for their unanimous support for this provision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u8	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u9	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1960/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1960/3) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u10	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u11	Mr President, I have a small question about the order of business. As a group not represented in the Conference of Presidents, we are not aware of anything at all or almost anything. Could I ask what we're going to discuss this afternoon? Will terrorism projects come to the agenda tomorrow afternoon?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u12	There was no consensus at this noon conference. The Ecolo-Groen Group asked for a period of reflection. So later, either later this afternoon or tomorrow morning, it will be clear whether the draft on the various provisions on terrorism will be on tomorrow's agenda or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u13	So it's tomorrow morning that you'll let us know if we discuss it tomorrow afternoon or not!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u14	Later. If Mr Nollet informs me of his group's decision in this regard. Let us be clear: either there is a consensus in the Conference of Presidents or the plenary may decide to start work on the law containing various provisions on terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u15	And what about the prepaid card project?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u16	This item is on the agenda of tomorrow's meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u17	Demain matin?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u18	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u19	No, in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u20	Tomorrow afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u21	Last question: Is the tax regularisation project on this afternoon's agenda? (...): It is now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u22	It's now. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u23	You're welcome, Mr. Hedebouw.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u24	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Ms Kattrin Jadin, referred to her written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u25	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1961/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1961/1) The draft law has 4 articles. The bill has four articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u26	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u27	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Jan Spooren, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u28	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, as you know, we support this text, but I would like to take this opportunity to recall that, in addition to the governance and economic aspects that you are doing through this bill, work remains to be done in this area, both to improve and accelerate the processing of the files of those affected – victims of industrial accidents or occupational diseases – and to update a series of points. In fact, new risks have been scientifically identified and are not yet taken into account. I understand that this legislation can go beyond the benefit of patients and users, while ensuring that during this merger work, the processing of cases does not suffer, which would be to the detriment of the people concerned. In committee, I insisted on these points and I had to repeat it here, because some do not necessarily realize that the files of those affected by accidents at work or occupational diseases are difficult, since their treatment can take far too long, even though they are fundamental to these people.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u29	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u30	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1958/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1958/3) The draft law has 22 articles. The bill has 22 clauses. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u31	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u32	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. I understand that the final text of the draft law is currently being distributed. The reporters are Mrs Ann Vanheste, M. Stéphane Crusnière et M. Benoît Piedboeuf. Mrs Vanheste has informed me that she refers to the written report. I take it the other reporters do the same? If they don't, they need to ask for the floor now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u33	Mr President, we refer to the written report on the work of the committee, except that of the morning, since the report must be made at the sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u34	Who's gonna make this report?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u35	Mr President, we share the work. Our colleague Ahmed Laaouej accompanied by MM. Vanvelthoven, Crusnière and Daerden tabled Amendment No 6 to amend Article 11. The purpose of this amendment is to address the following problem: the bill did not exclude regularization in the event that the nature of the tax evaded from the period covered by the tax would not be known. In order to solve the problem of jurisdiction, Article 11 must be adapted in such a way that, in order to be regularised, the income from the amounts of VAT and capital transactions prescribed for the part of them must satisfy three conditions: not having been subject to their ordinary tax system, determining the nature of the tax to which the income belongs and determining precisely the tax category of the income. As these three conditions are met, we can then say that income that has not been subject to their ordinary tax system and of an indeterminate nature cannot be regularized. This amendment, on which my colleague will give you the way in which it has been received, helps to avoid waste of time and recourse to the Constitutional Court and thus to bring revenue more quickly to all those who want it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u36	Thank you, Mr. Piedboeuf. Mr Crusnière, I give you the floor to the second part of the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u37	Mr President, the committee discussed this amendment at today's meeting. An exchange of views took place and two sub-amendments were tabled. Mr Laaouej et al. tabled a sub-amendment No 9 to also exclude VAT transactions from the regularisation of amounts that could be linked to specified infringements. Mrs Smaers et al. tabled a sub-amendment No. 10 to provide for the obligation for the declarant to specify the period to which the tax concerned relates. We voted on these sub-amendments and amendments. Subamendments Nos. 9 and 10 were adopted unanimously. Amendment No 6, as amended, was adopted unanimously. Article 11, as amended, was adopted by 15 votes with one abstention. The bill as a whole was adopted by 11 votes to 5.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u38	Mr. President, this case could have been the neverending story. It has been dealt with in committee for a long time, for a very simple reason. Indeed, this bill, on which the government relies very heavily to increase its tax revenues, has already been introduced some time ago and has been the subject of a great deal of discussion, a great deal of debate in committee. But above all, he has experienced a number of legal difficulties, including several opinions of the Council of State. He delivered at least two opinions on the bill itself and a multitude of opinions on proposed amendments. But before addressing this aspect, there is first of all the bill itself and its scope, namely, a tax regularization. As legislators, we have the question of whether tax regularisation is now relevant, given the changing European and international tax environment. Indeed, since a number of significant events, the latest being the 2008 financial crisis, there has been a trend towards more information exchange. Of course, between European countries, we are considering the Savings Directive and the automatic exchange of information on financial income. But there is also the FATCA dynamic initiated in particular by the United States. The United States itself has understood well that with respect to certain cooperative territories, nothing was worth the political power ratio. We will remember the gains made, for the United States, with Switzerland. In the same way, as successive revelations (the Offshore Leaks, the LuxLeaks, but also recently the Panama Papers) follow, the European Union wants to put double bites on the identification of tax havens and, at the same time, on the strengthening of cooperation to combat the phenomenon of international tax evasion, not to mention the strengthening of the law on money laundering. These directives must also be transposed into the various national legislations. The trend is therefore towards the exchange of information. The trend is towards cooperation. Anyway, the visor's getting tighter. First, in terms of fiscal policy, it appears quite incongruous to promote a new tax regularisation. That is why it happens on a temporary basis, because it should not, in particular if this regularisation is conceived as permanent, give the impression that, basically, it is enough to do tax evasion, fraud and to think that one day when the other, I will regularise at the moment I choose. It's counterproductive in terms of signal addressed. That is why we will obviously vote against this bill. We've said it all along. There is an additional data which is not new but which has increased since the sixth reform of the state, it is the strengthening of fiscal federalism. In 2002, the regionalization of inheritance and registration fees was already complete. The Regions already had jurisdiction over certain elements, including rates. But since 2002, this regionalisation has been complete in these areas. In addition, during the agreements which sealed the sixth reform of the State, a partial regionalisation of the tax on natural persons came to this end. Of course, this complicates the case. Why? People will regularize capital that has not been subject to inheritance rights, as this estate has not been declared. This is a little like the figure of the uncle of America, but in this case it may be the uncle of the Cayman Islands, Seychelles, or what do I know? They can also regularize professional income that a person has deliberately decided to evacuate abroad. In short, all this covers quite different realities, but one way or another, today, is at this point in the intersection of federal and regional tax jurisdictions. For this reason, a regularisation project such as this must take account of the rules for the division of powers between the federal and the regions under the special financing law. That is what the Council of State did not fail to recall at an early stage. Yes, it will be regrettable that the government chose not to take this into account quickly, immediately. We did not fail to recall that and to say that if the government did not change its copy, it would itself expose itself to a legal risk of appeal to the Constitutional Court. I imagine that, in order to ensure the legal security of his bill, the government understood that it might be useful to take into account both the contribution of the parliamentary work of the opposition, but also and above all the opinion of the Council of State, which, with regard to one of the amendments tabled by the opposition - and I take no pride in it, I repeat that this is a matter that could have been resolved several months ago - said that this amendment, in this case Amendment 6 which revises Article 11 of the bill as put forward by Mr Piedboeuf, was a necessary provision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u39	In other words, this amendment is necessary. We must note, in fact, that the government has given a signal to the opposition suggesting that this amendment could be accepted. So today in committee, this amendment has been adopted almost unanimously, unless I am mistaken. This, of course, does not prejudge the continuation of events, but at least it may open the way to maturity for our fiscal federalism. I'm firing a signal. We must learn, as a Parliament, and you as an Executive, to reflect today "in several dimensions". At the outset, it is not enough to ask what objective we pursue in fiscal policy. We must also ask ourselves whether this objective is compatible with the contemporary reality of fiscal federalism. As I said, it goes through meetings and exchanges. Federalism is also this: real, organised consultation. I don't necessarily say "institutionalized." The consultation committee exists for this purpose. But nothing prevents the creation of a permanent working group. Should I draw the attention of all my colleagues to the arrival of other dossiers? You will tell me that the tax on gambling amounts to only 39 million euros. This is still 39 million euros, even if it is not the 250 million regularisation. But what is the advantage, either for the federal government or for the Regions - which could also encroach on federal jurisdiction - of having a piece of legislation, a bill, an order, a decree, which would not meet the requirements of the Constitution and the Special Funding Act? Yes, I am glad that you considered that it was time to make up for this legal deficit. This re-establishes a balanced framework for discussion with the Regions, which will have to determine their position in the aftermath of the events. I will ask the minister a question of clarification about Panama Papers. Minister, you spoke in the press. You have taken a visibly clear position, but we would like to hear you explicitly on this specific point concerning the files that are now identified by your administration as elements revealed by the Panama Papers investigation. Do you confirm before Parliament that Panama Papers are excluded from tax regularization?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u40	Mr President, I would like very briefly to explain the reasons why we do embrace the draft law. Firstly, the draft is very clear on the right. The stop-and-go policy, which has been pursued in the past, has not led to unjustified and not surprising deviations. It has mainly resulted in different treatments. Those who have experienced the discussions with the BBI in the Panama Commission have seen how the differences in treatment by the offices did indeed have a basis. We are creating very clear legal clarity through this draft law. Secondly, it must not be underestimated how incredibly hard work has been done on a diplomatic solution to the existing complexity between the federal government and the Regions. There are, at least, very thorough and good discussions going on right now, in order to be able to coordinate. Mr Laaouej, you see in the draft law the basis for greater fiscal federalism and coordination. That's not right. I fully understand and agree that coordination is necessary. On the other hand, simplification must remain our starting point. In this respect, solutions can be sought in two directions, not only in the further merging but in the simplification process, so as to ensure that the burdens are placed where they are best placed. Finally, contrary to what you say, Mr Laaouej, the draft does indeed surf the current trends, particularly those towards more correct fiscal behaviour, which you seem to wish to deny. We can see this in several parameters, which are available today. We have also measured one of these parameters in the Panama Commission, namely the increasing number of announcements for foreign constructions and external accounts. Taxpayers often come out with that. It is also communicated more clearly and transparently. The way in which this draft law has been conceived will only benefit the Treasury. This is particularly beneficial to the honest taxpayer, who receives support thanks to the capital that has not been used for years to do what has to be done. In this way, we are working towards a fairer taxation system.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u41	Mr President, I should like to refer in a few words to the considerations put forward by Mr Laaouej, chairman of the Panama Committee, for whom I very much believe, not by his role as chairman, that he is doing very well, but because he knows, following all the debates that have taken place in recent weeks and months, that, basically, this regularisation of the tax system is part of a good momentum. Why? All Commissioners on this committee are obviously aware that as long as there is only one country that remains a tax haven, there will always be a transfer to that country. It goes without saying that while we are for the time being, in a fairly consensual way for some, with a view to transparency, many countries, even some States, are likely to maintain this status as a paradise for various reasons. The momentum is all the more justified as it comes at a time when the Minister of Finance and the government have decided to take a panel of measures. This is, in particular, and has been widely discussed in the Panama Committee, the Cayman tax, which is also a means of combating tax evasion. There are a number of other ways, such as increasing the scope of ISI officers, new measures to prosecute crime on the web, a set of measures that will be taken in the coming months. Finally, following an advertising of transparency at the international level, the insecurity that the person who wants to make amends will feel, will prompt him to do so now in the context of this regularization. I therefore think that this is a good time, this is an opportunity for some before the shock of transparency and therefore it is a fully justified measure which my political group and I will support with great determination.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u42	Mr President, I promise that I will not take back the time allotted to my colleague Georges Gilkinet. I will be more succinct in keeping with my habits, especially since much debate has already taken place on this bill. The approach to this tax regularization could be ideological or philosophical and we could ask ourselves whether, in terms of morals or ethics, it is a good or a bad thing. I leave this ideological debate to those who want to carry it. What is certain is that precedents have taken place: three regularisations have been completed. The latter was voted by the cdH group on the grounds that it was precisely the last. Three out of four majority groups also voted for the same reason. It was the third and the last. If the cdH group today does not vote for this new regularisation, it is precisely in order not to deny the word of the legislator by introducing a new regularisation operation after that which should have been the last. Moreover, this new operation becomes permanent and, as soon as it becomes permanent, perpetuates the infringement itself in the spirit of the legislator, which is a very bad signal. But obviously, hearing Mr Scourneau's comments, I can see how much the majority and the MR, in particular, remain committed to this project. This will probably remain one of the markers of this majority, as well as the index jump. Index jump and tax regularization are the two strong markers of this majority. It will assume them until the end of the legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u43	Mr President, it is not the offence that is permanent, since anyone who commits an offence is entitled to regularise it only once. [[One!]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u44	This may be the case at the individual level, but in the general philosophy of the system, there is, in a sense, an acceptance of the fact that this tax fraud, which is supposed to be fought against, perpetuates itself, becomes permanent and obliges to provide for endless regularization mechanisms. This is a broken approach to previous operations and, in particular, to the one we had supported on the cdH benches. What are the grievances that can be made with respect to this project? First of all, it must be stressed how laborious the road was. When we look at the retroacts of parliamentary work, we realize that it took a very, very long gestation. The first opinion of the Council of State – a total of four – dates back to October 2015. How many debates in committee, how many new readings, referrals to the Council of State were not necessary? This proves how perfect the text was. And as far as I am concerned, I am not convinced that its final version is satisfactory. In any case, the baby doesn't seem very successful. On the other hand, the way in which we approved an amendment and sub-amendments this morning, i.e. in an emergency, a little bit of a rush, may suggest that this corresponds to the hope of maturity, as Mr Laaouej believes. But we can also see the confirmation of a method that is mostly characterized by improvisation and a series of reversals, the one that is only the latest in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u45	As a result, there was a late turnaround, somewhat in extremis, when alarm signals had been launched from the beginning. Indeed, it has not been since the day before yesterday that it is known that the provisions relating in particular to taxes of an indeterminate nature are problematic. In its first opinion delivered in October 2015, the Conseil d'État stressed that this was one of the major problems of the project in that it allowed the regularization of sums whose origin of the tax evaded and whose taxable period was not known. The Council of State reiterated this comment in its second opinion in December. There were so many opinions that I forgot the exact date. On that occasion, the Council of State recalled that the regularization of capital for which the tax evaded and the taxable period are not determined results in a violation of the rules of division of powers. October 2015, December 2015. It would have taken time for minds to evolve and the majority to think that perhaps there was a real problem with the distribution of skills, as Mr. Piedboeuf acknowledged in his oral report. In total, I find that this way of working – we have drafted amendments and sub-amendments in a handwritten way; we are reporting them here orally – is not to be credited with this legislation, which I believe to be marked by uncertainty. And that is the second reprimand I would like to make. Legally, we should not believe that this amendment voted this morning solves all the problems. Far from it! Far from it! There is probably something to be satisfied with. Let's just say maybe it's less bad. However, important points have been raised throughout our work and, to my knowledge, they have not been given a satisfactory answer. Questions arise in particular with regard to European legislation. The fact that the levy made by the State of residence is not deducted is considered to be in contradiction with the European Savings Directive. What is the government's and the minister's response to this possible violation of European legislation? I would have liked to hear it here in open session, if I had not heard it in committee. Similarly, the impossibility of appealing may appear to be incompatible with a ruling of the Constitutional Court that is decidedly on your way throughout the legislative process of this text. Indeed, on 19 December 2014, the Constitutional Court held that the impossibility of recourse was unacceptable under the Constitution. There are therefore two legal uncertainties: one related to European legislation and the other related to the Constitutional Court's ruling. And then, above all, there is always the subsistence of uncertainty, of legal uncertainty vis-à-vis the Regions. It is true that the amendment limits the damage, in a way, but I think it would be better to go one step further, as you have suggested this morning in committee. I would like to hear you again in plenary on this matter. Since the powers are at this point intertwined, the Council of State has not stopped saying that there is a need for a cooperation agreement between the Federal State and the Regions. You refuted that analysis. Then, finally, here, in extremis, flash of lucidity, you admitted that indeed, this cooperation agreement was desirable and that it was on the right track. If we table amendments, it is only on that point. It is precisely for the cooperation agreement to be enshrined in the law in order to enable you to fulfil your commitments. A political comment, in a given context, is already better than nothing, but it is not totally reassuring. We are tabling amendments to ensure that the necessary cooperation agreement, as judged by the Council of State, is indeed included in the legislation. This would enable us to legally consolidate and consolidate your project. Otherwise, there will remain a sword of Damocles. Mr. Van Biesen told us that Mr Vanhengel had finally become reasonable and that he would not lead a fight to the Buttist, to the Constitutional Court. But that doesn't completely reassure me. I think the risk exists and it is still real. If you want to protect yourself from a decision of the Constitutional Court, it would be best to accept, very officially and in law, this need for a cooperation agreement and that you really enter into this negotiation with the Regions within the framework of this mature federalism which our colleague Mr Laaouej called for and to which we all aspire. Mr President, Minister, I come to a third grievance. This is the question about the tax revenue you expect from this regularization operation. From the beginning, the figure of 250 million euros has been quoted. Do you confirm this number? Objectively, the latest elements related to the publication of the Monitoring Committee's report are not entirely in your favour as regards the reliability and credibility of the budget forecasts. Is the €250 million target really the goal you want to achieve? Unless in the course of the government's fiscal work this summer, you are forced to inflate the possible revenue from this regularization to perhaps 500 or 750 million. That would be a way to fill the hole identified by the Monitoring Committee. Very seriously, Minister, can you commit to a number here? That would be interesting because we will come back to you at the end of the year to see that your estimate was serious or, on the contrary, very random. I would like to make another grievance about the symbolic significance of this bill, which is a strong political step for you. Even if, on the principle of regularisation, we can consider that, by pragmatism, we must go through this, we find ourselves in a context in which public opinion expects a strengthening of control measures, on the basis of the recommendations of all international organisations, rather than a sustainability of a regularisation mechanism for the benefit of fraudsters. Mr. Scourneau described the Cayman tax as a fine example of government voluntarism. We will discuss this again because the observers of the Panama commission all stress how fragile and ineffective this tax is. If you want to convince us of your determination to fight tax fraud, you could, as you committed yourself a long time ago, provide the Panama commission with an update on the implementation of the 108 recommendations of the Special Commission on Combating Tax Fraud. We understood that you were prepared to press your services so that this update could be communicated as soon as possible, but I believe that you have been too late. I would ask you to officially report on what has been done to the Panama Committee and to make new and interesting proposals and recommendations. Otherwise, your advocacy for the fight against tax evasion will lack persuasion. In addition, this bill removes the distinction between ordinary tax fraud and serious tax fraud. We can understand some form of criminal immunity in order to encourage the persons concerned to regularize their situation, but you cannot camouflage the distinction between these two categories of fraud. This policy seems to me to be damaging. In addition, I would like to stress how the context created by the revelation of the Panama Papers should encourage us to be more firm rather than trying to facilitate regularization operations. Finally, I have doubts as to the true effectiveness of this operation. It is difficult to have a definitive opinion at this stage, but a number of technicians, through articles in specialized journals or in the press, have argued that the device under consideration today contains elements that could harm the objective you are pursuing. The amount of fines is important, perhaps even a deterrent. However, there are some elements that do not assure us that this operation will achieve its objective, which would be the worst. Then we could say, "All for that!" It is probably too early to resolve this issue. We will see more clearly in the coming months when we know who benefits from this operation, under what conditions and for what amounts. Mr President, I wanted to recall certain objections and criticisms. While some might have thought that the political climate could be softened by a unanimous vote in committee, the strong differences that remain with regard to this text mean that the cdH group will not be able to vote on it as it stands.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u46	Mr. President, Mr. Dispa, "all for this!" Of course! We must not forget what has been reported to the state, but also to the regions, the previous regularisations: EUR 5.5 billion, of which 1.6 billion has entered the state funds and 680 million to the regions. I think that when Mr Laaouej says that 30 million is already something, 5 billion, it is all the more so!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u47	I confirm!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u48	Thank you for the confirmation, president. I was going to come back to this Panama Papers commission. But before that, I would like to say this. I was somewhat indisposed by the words of Mr Dispa, who seems to say that he is a political marker, that the Liberals have chosen to regularize what could be an infringement. It is a rather particular intellectual esquive in the sense that at the same time it refers to Article 6 of the Law, which was discussed at length under the cover of the amendment by Mr Laaouej. This article specifically covers more than 20 offences that do not allow regularization. It goes without saying that these are serious offences, against which one can never compromise. Our colleague Dispa seems to be ignoring and exciting this point which we consider to be particularly important. The Cayman tax has been discussed; much has been said about it in the Panama Commission. And what did we hear at the bottom? The people who are the most customary of this kind of legal system and the experts have all recognized that it was an innovative and interesting system. Of course, these are the first months of the enforcement of this law. The law was passed in the wake of the government policy statement. This is one of the first steps taken by the government. It's only been operational for a few months. It will be evaluated because everything is perfect. It is also – I imagine – in this sense that we will go in the context of our recommendations, at the end of the work of the Panama commission. Nevertheless, the law has the merit of having existed, for a very short time, but it is there! Finally, I would like to conclude on one point which I think is also important: that Mr Dispa is saying that it is shocking not to distinguish between serious and normal tax fraud. I would like to point out that, in the context of previous regularisations, the figures are evocative. For the DLU ter, only 30 serious cases were identified in 6,200 files. For DLU bis, no cases of serious tax evasion have been reported. He himself spoke of pragmatism. I think that tax regularization is a pragmatic system that, pragmatically, takes into account the past in proposing this new bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u49	Mr President, I will respond to a few elements of Mr Scourneau's speech. With regard to the budget estimate, I am pleased to hear the Minister's estimate. The government announced 250 million revenues and Mr. Scourneau branded 5 billion revenues related to previous operations. Where will the cursor stop between these two amounts? I would like to obtain from the Minister of Finance a somewhat substantiated estimate, which has not simply come out of the past without knowing if it can be verified. Mr Scourneau, you referred to Article 6, but in fact Article 11 provides for a series of sources of income which cannot be regularized. I want to tell you that it will be all that's missing! The fact that terrorism-related revenues cannot be regulated, you cannot brand this as an ethical and moral satisfaction that the majority could claim. That illicit drug trafficking cannot be regulated, should you be congratulated? That trafficking in human beings cannot lead to regularization is the least of all! There's nothing to gargle with. Finally, you mention the number of serious cases. You quote about 30 for one of the previous operations. There would be only one case, it must be taken into account as a serious case and not as an ordinary fraud. That is the difference between you and us! You consider that nothing is really very serious and that this tax evasion can be considered quite ordinary. I consider that there are serious cases which should be considered as such. I regret that, out of pragmatism, you have decided to pass this distinction out of profit.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u50	Mr President, my colleague is making some caricatural remarks. In the fourth paragraph of the above article, it goes without saying that such facts are not regularizable. In addition, all frauds committed against the Communities' financial interests, environmental crime, counterfeiting of property, stock exchange offences, etc., are mentioned. Therefore, let us try to keep the right measure and avoid developing a Manichean vision between the "good" who would be against regularization and the "bad", those infamous who would want to regularize anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u51	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this dossier has been discussed in the Chamber since the beginning of this parliamentary term. I think that the previous government has clearly indicated that, after permanent regularisation, we would go to a temporary regularisation, which would end and also end on 31 December 2013. That was a clear message for anyone who had money hidden somewhere. It is a bit bizarre that Mr Van de Velde has just come to criticize the past of the stop and go. It is just the previous government that has long announced that there will be a definitive halt and it is this government that says again go, the government that also likes to work out legal certainty in tax matters. Now this is proof of the opposite. There was a clear message from the previous government. The same partners Open Vld, MR, CD&V who were then in the government now say with the N-VA that the stop that was then introduced is being abolished and that we are going back forward with the regularization. We regret that. I have said that repeatedly. We regret that, because we in the previous government decided to put a definitive stop to regularisation, because it was then linked to a number of things that were new and essential to actually tackle tax fraud. I would remind you of a few measures against tax fraud that were taken at the time. The BBI was strengthened by 20%. There was a framework for specialized tax magistrates. The legislation was strengthened. There was a prison sentence of up to five years. The bank acceptance policy was improved and made more stringent. Despite this, this government comes up with a regularisation which means that tax fraudsters can no longer be prosecuted. We have identified additional tax magistrates and increased prison time, but today this government no longer considers all this important: it now gives these people the opportunity to regularize and, in other words, to buy off their sentence. A second element which was important at the time and which we have already discussed several times is the international tightening up. We know that from the beginning of next year there will be an exchange of financial data from foreign banks to the Belgian tax authorities. So we will get a lot of information about funds abroad that may be justified there, but for some reason we may also be wrong. Just when we are going to get that data, that we will be able to identify stashed money, just at that moment, this government is still giving us the opportunity to regularize. I find that objectionable and ethically irresponsible. I don't think so. If we want to take the fight against tax fraud seriously, that is the opposite of what the government wants to send today with the new law on regularisation. I deeply regret that. I see that CD&V is absent in large numbers. I thought so. There are two of you, which is absent in large numbers. What bothers me most at CD&V is that the party, after the previous government had decided that tax regulation would end, has written this down in its electoral programme. I won't read it again in this chair. CD&V has gone to the voter with the promise that there would be no new tax regularisation. My question to CD&V is therefore to explain this. Explain it to me because I don't understand. However, explain it to your electorate too, because if there is something that people have the stomach for, it is from politicians who say before the elections A and the day after the elections have the opposite included in the government agreement. You had the opportunity to remain faithful to your word and maintain the decision taken by the previous government. Explain to me why you promise the voter the end of the tax settlements first and will approve this bill today. What happened to make you suddenly change your mind? International and internal law measures have been taken which are just the opposite, in particular no longer regularisations. I expect another presentation from the CD&V banks so that we can clarify that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u52	Mr Vanvelthoven, I will interrupt you briefly. We have already clarified our position on the draft tax regulation at the committee meeting. We see this as part of a comprehensive package of tax fraud, particularly with a view to increasing recovery, i.e. obtaining additional revenue, revenue that we need to obtain. We also see this as a final part of the whole regulation, which includes the caiman tax. We have always been in favour of the caiman tax being a workable instrument, so as to be able to effectively bring so much money that is in offshore countries to Belgium and reap the benefits from it. As far as the report before us is concerned, we have already said in committee that we do not, of course, strongly support systems of fiscal regulation. However, we see this draft law as a final piece and that is how it is built. For example, funds that have been in offshore constructions in the past cannot come back to Belgium via the caiman tax, but tax regulation can. Since it is an integral part of a whole range of instruments and is built up in this way, we shall be voting in favour of it. We have also clarified this in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u53	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank CD&V for this unexplained statement. When you wrote the election program for CD&V, there was also the argument of tax revenues. I have read in your election programme that, in the context of the fight against tax fraud, we must bring capital hidden abroad here. That is right, and that is also in our electoral programme. However, this does not require tax regularisation. Tax regularisation is to tell the owner of hidden money that we know and will soon be able to catch him, but that he can get rid of it more cheaply, not only in terms of tariffs, but also in terms of the legal immunity that can be paid off here. I find that objectionable for serious tax fraud. Also the argument that we need that tax regularisation to get that money out of the country because otherwise it doesn't come here is wrong. The general tax legislation that exists today says what happens when someone with his hidden capital, with his black money, wants to come to our country. Without fiscal regulation, the legislation says the following. I shall confine myself to the amounts after 2005, to the funds that have been hidden over the past ten years. Article 444 of the Income Tax Code and Article 225 et seq. of the Royal Decree implementing it state that there is no tax increase, no fine in the case of incomplete, incorrect declarations, regardless of the taxpayer's will. In the case of cases that were unintentionally hidden, there is a tax increase of 10%. If it is about intent, in other words fraud, a tax increase from 50% can be introduced. When it comes to using fake pieces, one goes to 200 %. However, it is a fake argument that we need regularisation, because otherwise the tax fraudsters will not come here with their money. Our general tax legislation today provides for this possibility. Why, after years of warning that the story has come to an end, does not the tax increase of 50% suffice? Why is that too much? Why should that be 36 %? Why should there be legal immunity? I'd like to hear it from you. I do not understand why it should be even cheaper and, above all, why it should be possible to buy off such facts in court. Mr President, these are the substantive arguments why sp.a will, of course, vote against regularisation. However, there are two more things I would like to discuss, which we have had some discussion about recently. Firstly, the Council of State has repeatedly issued a negative opinion on your draft, Minister. That may have been resolved in committee today. I understand that informal discussions have taken place with the regions in recent days and weeks and that this matter has been cleared up. Hopefully so. If you come to Parliament with legislation against which procedures are announced, it is bad legislation from the point of view of legal certainty. If tax legal certainty is to be achieved today thanks to opposition amendments, it is a good thing that we have done so, but you should have done that work, Minister. Secondly, in the previous discussions, we have repeatedly stressed the danger that the adoption of the law on regularisation would allow those mentioned in the Panama files to apply for regularisation. We have asked the majority to postpone the draft law on regularisation until the BBI has launched the investigations effectively. I heard from the press yesterday that the BBI started an investigation in 239 of the cases. Perhaps you could explain a little more about how that happened later. It's a good thing the BBI is working on that. But it is the opposition that, against your will, has delayed this draft law with all possible procedural measures. If it had been up to you, Minister, there would have been no delay in the discussion and the draft had already been approved. You've always refused to postpone. Fortunately, the opposition has delayed the procedure again and again. If the Belgians mentioned in the Panama files are no longer able to make use of the regularisation that you are apparently proud of today, it is only because of the opposition. You have nothing to gain from that. Zero! You shouldn't shake no. Every time we have asked the committee to postpone the debate, you have refused to do so. The majority has tried to oppose any postponement that we have asked for. Mr Minister, it is strange that you should be on the table now to say that you have ensured that the Belgians mentioned in the Panama files will not be able to make use of the regularisation. If you consider this to be so important to the Belgians who are mentioned there, why do you not think that is important for everyone else who is committing tax fraud? Why? In the case of the culprits in the Panama phase, you are pleased that they are not able to regularize but all the other culprits who have nothing to do with Panama are allowed to regularize.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u54	That's another discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u55	No, that's not another discussion, that's the same discussion. If we are given the Liechtenstein Papers tomorrow, in which a number of Belgians are also mentioned, they will be able to regularize. In fact, it is all a bit laughable, in the sense that the Panamanians can be caught, but that all the others can go free, if we approve the present draft law on regularisation. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that is why the sp.a. Group will vote this draft law on regularisation with great force.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u56	Mr President, Mr Finance Minister, it is no surprise that my group will not support this bill to introduce a permanent system of tax and social regulation either. First of all, I would like to point out that the Panama Papers Special Committee has been held in our Parliament for several months. This committee, set up after an umpteenth tax fraud scandal, will allow our assembly to apprehend the mechanisms of evasion and fraud in which certain Belgian banks and citizens have been involved. We would, of course, have hoped, in a constructive debate, that the government would have waited for the conclusions of this special Panama Papers commission before taking this vote. With regard to the fate of fraudsters and the fight against tax fraud, with this mechanism, this time permanent, the government allows fraudsters to regularize their assets, their assets. In other words, with an increase in taxes whose rates can be criticized, and I will come back to that, fraudsters will be able to obtain a blank-seing and repatriate their hidden assets abroad, in complete peace of mind. It is true, I agree, that this mechanism already existed under the former government. In contrast, however, he had nothing permanent. After the third DLU, the previous government said: "Stop!" Only the possibility of regularizing with the Special Tax Inspectorate remained, which led to the recruitment of nearly 125 million in 2015 income taxes. As the stranglehold continues to tighten on tax havens and fraudsters, the government's choice continues to raise questions. As far as the rates applied are concerned, let me also go back to that. I have just mentioned the risk of an increase in tax evasion. Why? The rate of increase provided for in the bill is too low. Under non-prescribed revenues: 20 points increase. In the context of fiscally prescribed capital: increase of 36 points. In other words, for the entry into force of this new legislation, the same rates are taken up as under the DLU ter, and we are starting over again. However, I welcome the fact that in 2020, increases will reach 25 per cent for non-prescribed revenues and 40 per cent for prescribed capital. This government claimed to be the one that would represent the new tax transparency. Indeed, since 1 January 2015, the Cayman tax has entered into force. Since that date, in principle, the founders, holders and third-party beneficiaries may be taxed on the income of the constructions they hold abroad. In other words, income that would have been collected after January 1, 2015 and that would not have been reported by the person referred to in the provision cannot be regularized. This hypothesis can also be inferred: in the case of prescribed capital, the Cayman tax would logically prevent regularization. Therefore, why not explicitly provide for this in the law? I assume that too much legal uncertainty would only harm the work of the tax administration. It has been discussed several times in this session, the risk of a Brussels Region remedy against this bill will inevitably lead to obvious legal uncertainty. If this hypothesis of recourse is confirmed, I would remind you that this is the second time that the government of the Brussels Region has brought an action against the federal government, the first being against the overflight of aircraft over Brussels. While I welcome the two Brussels regional initiatives, I once again note that the government, in the event of disagreement with these two regions (Brussels and Walloon) decides to enter into force by negotiating a cooperation agreement with Flanders alone. I hope this is not due to chance. You will easily understand that, for the reasons set out above by my colleagues in the opposition, my group will not support this project which does not in any way hold any responsibility for fraudulent behaviour, or even worse, encouraging tax evasion. We also have questions about the relevance of the performance of the $250 million (this was discussed here earlier) while the budget is missing $2.4 billion! What, then, can we hope for?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u57	Mr President, like some previous colleagues, I will not go back to the institutional part of the draft under discussion, which was discussed earlier in the Finance Committee. I would simply like to draw attention to the fact that, once again, this project demonstrates, after the first five reforms, that the sixth reform of the State does not work or works with great difficulties. On the other hand, it can be seen that in tax matters it is still very difficult to pass on a project so much the "foul" division of competences is a problem. I would also like to return to the substance of the case. Without going back to thirteen years of fiscal history, I would like to put the text under consideration in the process of the tax amnesty as it stands in Belgium and remind you that, finally, we are faced with the story of a single amnesty that has become repetitive before becoming permanent. I would like to summarize in one sentence the text in question. As a reminder, in 2003 the DLU was voted on, that is to say, the unique, I say unique, liberating declaration to which the PTB, which was not yet represented in parliament, was already opposed. If I refer to the Scourneau classification at the time, the PTB was already one of the good ones because it was already opposed to the tax amnesty when the MR was already one of the bad people who defended it. At the time, the project was carried out by the then Minister of Finance, Didier Reynders. Why were we already opposed to this project in 2003? Because it is neither more nor less than an incentive to fraud which, in the short term, brings money into the caisses, but which, in the long term, generates a much greater budgetary loss. At the time, in 2003, a CD&V member described Operation DLU as "a large-scale laundering operation". Today, he is a member of this government. As we don't see much, sometimes we wonder if he's really a member of it, but I can confirm it to you. This is Pieter De Crem. It was he who declared this in 2003: "large-scale money laundering operation". You hear me well! This was DLU No. 1. It wasn't permanent. At the time, it was unique. [[It doesn't stop...]] Didier Reynders, the author of the project at the time, explained in 2005, two years after the DLU: "This is not to be done again anyway. No question, indeed, of giving a bad signal of the kind "fraud without restraint for a few years and then you will have the possibility to regularize your situation". Here we were already against this unique amnesty, but it happens that, a few months after saying that it was not to be repeated anyway, Minister Reynders in 2006 makes a DLU bis. It is a paradox: we make a new operation, a bis, of a measure that is unique. As a reminder, in DLU, U is put for "unique". In 2013, we continue! In DLU, the U is put for "universal" no doubt. We don't stop there! Then comes the DLU ter. Again, a member of the CD&V made a shock statement: "This is the last time this possibility of amnesty will be proposed." Well, we're in the third mill, but this time, it's the "der des der". It is still a CD&V that makes a statement to this effect, the then Minister of Finance, Koen Geens. It's a little parenthesis. I do not want to overwhelm the CD&V, but you still see the evolution: in 2003, large-scale laundering, in 2013, it is the "der des der", and then, today, permanent regularization operation! Evolution is pretty messy, if you could laugh at it, which unfortunately is not the case! In 2016, we arrived at the DLU quater but permanent. At the same time, it's good news. It can be said that it is indeed the last, since it is permanent and there will be no more after. The consolation is thin. We are indeed moving on to a higher stage. We amplify the inciting one to fraud, since the fraudster knows that he will have eternity before him to regularize his situation! So he can cheat for years. He will know that he will be able to regularize his situation whenever he wants, whenever it will make it right! This is obviously a fairly important problem. "Large-scale bleaching operation," said Peter De Crem at the time. Indeed, this also poses a real problem in terms of money laundering. He was mentioned by the former head of CTIF, Mr. Delepière. I quote: "Nothing better than a tax regularization to launder money for organized crime." That's what he said a while ago. Indeed, one of the problems identified is that the TIFC is probably doing its job with the means at its disposal, but at the level of justice there is no follow-up. There's almost no money laundering case coming to court. So we have a fairly high level of impunity. The question of penalties is of course a problem, since, here, it is true that, compared to other transactions, penalties may be a little higher, but we remain in very nice penalties of the order of 20 to 25%. In any case, this remains below the 50% that is due in case of fraudulent intent in the Tax Code. This remains far below the penalty imposed on the ordinary little fraudster, the one who takes the bus without paying and who has to pay a penalty of 5 000 % in relation to the ticket price. We are obviously very far from that. Most of all, we're escaping criminal charges. It is in this sense that the PTB has introduced an amendment to remove this possibility of escaping criminal proceedings from the moment this regularisation is applied. As a reminder, Al Capone was put in prison for tax evasion. It can be said that in Belgium, Al Capone would have escaped prison! I will conclude with this conclusion: this ongoing tax regularization project is part of a tax policy that allows the richest and larger companies to escape tax. This regularization is part of a six-storey rocket used to escape tax when you are rich or a large multinational company. The first floor of the rocket is custom-made laws, such as those discussed this morning: real estate funds, Diamond tax, patent deductions, all these laws that are custom-made for a particular economic sector. Second stage of the rocket: the entire ruling system. On the one hand, we have the "ready-to-tax" for the ordinary taxpayer, but on the other hand, for specific sectors that have entries into the Advance Rulings Service, arrangements can be made. The third stage of this rocket is the absence of a proactive fight against tax fraud. The fourth is the permanent tax regularization that we are currently discussing. The fifth floor is also the work of Minister Geens when he was Minister of Finance: it is the criminal transaction, which allows diamond dealers or Chodievs to escape justice. The sixth floor is the trials, such as the KB Lux and others, where great fraudsters escape punishment after a particularly tedious trial, where everything is done to put sticks in the wheels and prevent the conviction of these great fraudsters. This is a tax system that allows some to escape tax. This permanent tax regularisation is perfectly part of this process.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u58	Mr President, Mr Van Hees always has great names as references: Lenin, Stalin, Al Capone. Fortunately, in our country no one is sent to prison for the sale of beer, otherwise our esteemed colleagues would have some problems! However, it is always misleading to present the tax regularization system as an incentive for tax evasion. It is a system with very heavy penalties; it can be as high as 40 per cent. Mr Van Hees, it is as if, because you can pay a ticket for excessive driving, you were asked to go beyond the limits of the tolerated speed. Of course, that's not true! This is not the way the system works. The penalty is 40% to be paid on amounts that would have been diverted and for the causes that we know. If there is a sanction, there is no incentive and there is no pleasure in being punished! Do not present this system as an incentive! It's a false and intellectually dishonest presentation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u59	Mr President, I have two points of answer. In terms of penalties, a scale exists. Forty percent is not the bottom of the scale. If we compare this with the legal sanction in the Income Tax Code for fraudulent intent, we are 50 per cent. It's higher. Moreover, it is explicitly written in the text: anyone who resorts to permanent tax regularization escapes any criminal sanction. We have tabled an amendment to delete this article. Tax evasion is reduced to an investment, to a financial risk since the risk of criminal punishment is removed for the fraudster. That's what's serious. In a country like Finland, bankers and fraudsters found themselves in prison. In our country, great tax evasion never leads to truly dissuasive criminal sanctions such as prison sentences. I think that if this kind of sanctions existed for the big tax fraudsters, Belgium would not be in the lead of the countries where fraud is most prevalent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u60	It is in this state of mind that Mr. Van Hees said we can cheat, we'll regularize anyway! However, you don't regularize when you want to. Thus, when a person is known to the administration before he or she has completed the procedures, he or she can no longer regularize his or her situation. This is an important prerequisite. We must not encourage people to cheat, but we must determine a time to make amends. Otherwise, regularisation is not possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u61	Mr President, first of all, there were comments as to whether this is the time for permanent regularisation which, for the sake of clarity, can be used once. Yeah, because this regularization isn't an isolated thing. Mrs Smaers has already made an assessment, it is part of a triangle consisting of the Cayman tax, which ensures that the money on tax havens is detected and taxed, the regularisation that gives taxpayers a last chance to actually declare income that has not yet been declared, and it is also a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity, because regularisation itself is permanent, but can only be used once and this, I would like to emphasise, against higher fines than in the past. Non-taxable deferred capital is +20 % compared to the rates in each of the tax categories. This was also 20% for serious fraud before, but 10% to 15% for other frauds. This brings me to another point. They ask why this distinction between serious tax fraud and other fraud has been removed. Well, previous regularisation operations show that there was no record of serious tax fraud in the second operation. I'm establishing that. In the third round of tax regularisation, there were 30 serious cases of fraud on 6 200 regularisation declarations. That distinction did not seem obvious. Even taking this into account in terms of charging, all fraud is now serious fraud. For tax-depleting capitals it was previously 35%. Now it is 36 %, ascending year per year up to 40 %. So the fable that this regularization is cheaper is what it is, especially a fable. In the spirit of what the Council of State has written several times, there does indeed seem to be good hope that we can actually reach cooperation agreements with the regions. This has taken a great deal of time, energy, work and consultation, but the reality behind it is that our state structure is complex, which means that achieving such agreements is absolutely not easy. Mr Laaouej is quite right to call for an effort to make fiscal federalism work better. We are working with the Ministers of Finance and the Budget of the Regions. Wat betreft from Panama Papers: 239 files were identified by the ISI as meriting in-depth research. All 239 files received a request for information. This means that they can no longer use regularisation, because a research act implemented prevents the use of regularisation. Indeed, the revenue is still estimated at EUR 250 million, which we believe remains a realistic estimate, given the circumstances and even a shortened year. It was also asked whether this bill is in line with the European Savings Directive. We have indeed made very explicit provision for the avoidance of double taxation, namely the declaration in the year itself and the settlement of the state tax. By setting up the construction in this way, there is compliance with the Savings Directive. Finally, I find it very strange that in the proposed regularisation operation, which is more penalising than previous regularisation operations, we see evidence that we are letting fraudsters go and that we feel we are in the corner for a moment when something like the Panama Papers pops up. 28 measures have been taken today to combat tax fraud and most of these measures have been agreed by the opponents. The B.B.I. got a hundred employees on it. The reporting obligation for banks has been strengthened. The analysis techniques for transfer pricing are tightened. Access to the CAP has been greatly extended. For me, it is absolutely a mystery how a whole of such measures, of which I have mentioned only a few and which still have to be supplemented by measures in preparation, can be matched in any logical way with the statement that tax fraud would not be a major priority. The opposite is true. The regularisation we are now proposing, with all its characteristics, is part of a triangle of caiman tax, regularisation and anti-fraud measures, which is logical and coherent. It also makes sense in the international context, where, on the one hand, pressure is increasing on various sides and, on the other, the meshes of the network are closing. It is precisely for this reason that we are convinced that the three measures will strengthen each other and lead to good results in the fight against fraud, legal certainty and the channeling of capital to the real economy and job creation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u62	Mr President, I am not going to relaunch the debate. I think we've exchanged our arguments, and we've been doing it for several months. I therefore take note of the Minister's stated willingness to instil additional momentum in fiscal federalism. I can only encourage him in this direction. I believe that this will avoid many problems upstream. And it's better to prevent than cure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u63	You conclude, Minister, that the present regularisation is very logical. If she makes sense, why doesn't it make sense that the Panamanians can't use it? If all this is so good, so fine and so strict, so that everyone has to take it into account now, why do you think the Panamanians cannot use it? What is the difference between the Panamanian fraudsters who must be punished and not use the regularisation, and all the others for whom it is logical that they use the regularisation? Mr President, Minister, I do not understand. It will probably be the logic of the current majority to pretend that something is being done, but on the basis of arguments that unfortunately do not make sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u64	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u65	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1738/15) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1738/15) The draft law has 21 articles. The bill has 21 clauses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u66	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-19-54-plenair-ip122x.u67	I propose that the draft law on mobility, Nos 1889/1 to 6, should be entered on the agenda of tomorrow morning's plenary session. I propose that you put on the Orders of the Day for tomorrow morning's plenary sitting the bill with various provisions on mobility, Nos. 1889/1 to 6. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 20 July 2016 at 10 a.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday, July 20, 2016 at 10.00 hours.
