ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u1	Mr. Chair, Minister, in order to step up the follow-up to the Foreign Terrorism Fighters (FTF), the circular of September 25, 2014 had been updated on August 21, 2015. The purpose of the circular is to systematize the management of information relating to Foreign Terrorist Fighters and the collaboration in this area between the services concerned and the various authorities and to define the way in which it is followed. With regard to information from the social prevention sector, the new circular states that, in order to be able to take into account all relevant information, the necessary bridges must be created between the security services and the social prevention services and other social sectors in order to enable this exchange of information, hence the importance of creating social consultation platforms in the form of a CSIL in which trust can be created and information thus circulated. The exchange of information is therefore the key word of the FTF circular. However, in the field, the basic functioning of the CSILs is made difficult or impossible due to professional secrecy. In the case of a social worker, for example, to provide information on a beneficiary of the CPAS which is the subject of an OCAM fact sheet, the notion of professional secrecy seems to prevail in the head of the social worker over the need to share information in order to stop possible terrorist acts. There is a form of a culture of secrecy according to which secret agents feel that they are unable to exchange any information. This causes all sorts of difficulties. However, legislation and jurisprudence are more nuanced. Depending on the context and information concerned, a waiver of professional secrecy is possible under certain conditions. For example, article 458 bis of the Criminal Code allows for the lifting of professional secrecy in the event of a serious and imminent danger to the physical or mental integrity of the minor or vulnerable person concerned where the custodian of the secret is aware of an offence provided for in articles 371.1 to 377, 377quater, 392 to 394, 396 to 405ter, 409, 423, 425 and 426 of the Criminal Code. It is clear from the offences referred to that this article has not been drafted in the context of a terrorist threat. However, I would like to have your opinion on the notion of serious and imminent danger. To what extent can it be applied to the terrorist threat? In order to enable ISIL and FTF to carry out their full impact, it is essential to address these considerations. CSIL must be a place covered by a form of discretion in order to ensure optimal information sharing between the actors concerned and to stop any terrorist project. Minister, what do you intend to do to clarify this situation? Are the concerns raised by actors on the ground about a possible breach of professional secrecy justified? What information is relevant to terrorism that is or is not covered by professional secrecy? Is an amendment to article 458 bis of the Criminal Code necessary? To what extent are the information exchanged under CSIL protected?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u2	Mr Dallemagne, I fully share your point of view. The observations you make are not new, but they are the basis for the passage on professional secrecy shared in the government agreement. A first step in this direction was the creation of the CSILs provided for in the Foreign Terrorism Fighters circular. These cells aim to set up a forum where trust can be created and where potentially problematic situations of radicalization can be addressed. It also provides for the possibility, through a representative of the Federal Police, of establishing bridges with the local task forces. My colleague Geens and I cannot impose the creation of a CSIL. Nor can we oblige anyone to share information with their partners. However, everyone must understand that good information management, with the provision of all relevant information, is essential to be able to respond adequately to radicalization, extreme violence and terrorism. This also includes information that is found by front-line employees. They need such a forum. I therefore remain convinced that this approach will produce the most results. However, I note with you and with many other people that professional secrecy is sometimes used for good reason, but often also wrongly so as not to have to share information. I'm sorry. However, it is not a question of reversing the situation. It can be considered that all participants in these platforms are professionals who each demonstrate the necessary professional seriousness. In these circumstances, however, we believe that it is necessary to create a sound legal basis that responds to the concerns of the field workers. Together with my colleague, Mr Geens, we are currently looking at the possibilities, and one of the possible avenues may lie in the example of Article 458bis to which you refer, as well as in the notion of serious and imminent danger. I would also like to stress that we must be proactive. The aim of this exchange of information is not only to avoid terrorist attacks, but also to detect radicalisation and problematic situations in time. As you know, I was in New York last week. I participated in a meeting with the FBI. Their attitude is quite the opposite. They are obliged to share all information and make a professional mistake if they do not. Together with my colleague, Mr Geens, we are looking at how we can evolve, but I fully share your experience in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u3	Minister, thank you for this information. We're on the same wavelength. Indeed, in practice, sharing certain information leads to a series of difficulties. Clarification of the legal basis is necessary. I'm a little worried about the government's time to react. Your new circular is one year old. You have spoken of proactivity; I do not feel that the government is really proactive on this subject, which has already been the subject of many parliamentary questions. That is why I am tabling a motion of recommendation along the lines you have just indicated. She asked for a review of the Foreign Terrorism Fighters circular, and for a review of the issue of professional secrecy. This can be done either by amending Article 458a, which was created in a particular context, or by introducing a new Article 458b. I think that this issue could be resolved, and that is why I table this motion for a recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u4	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Georges Dallemagne and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Georges Dallemagne and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Interior, responsible for the Régie des Bâtiments, asks the government - to review the circular of 21 August 2015 on the exchange of information and monitoring of Foreign Terrorism Fighters from Belgium in order to clarify the framework for the optimal exchange of information within the Local Integrated Security Cells (CSILs) while respecting professional secrecy; - to review the legislation on professional secrecy in order to allow for the sharing of information between custodians of secrecy in the context of terrorist offences." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Georges Dallemagne and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Georges Dallemagne and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Home Affairs, with responsibility for the Directorate of Buildings, calls on the Government - revise the circular of 21 August 2015 on the exchange of information and the follow-up of Foreign Terrorist Fighters from Belgium in order to clarify the framework and allow the optimal exchange of information in the LIVC cells, while respecting professional secrecy; - review the legislation on professional secrecy in order to allow persons bound by professional secrecy to share information in the context of terrorist offences.' A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koenraad Degroote. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Conseil Degroote. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Cassart-Mailleux's 11663 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u5	Minister, the security monitor has been implemented seven times since 1997. This large-scale population survey looked for insecurity, neighbourhood problems, victimisation and reporting and satisfaction with the operation of the police services. The results were made available at national and local level. At present, the safety monitor is no longer carried out for budgetary reasons. However, in the context of the zonal security plans, it is important for the various authorities to know the opinion of the public in the field of security and police, so as to develop a security policy that responds to citizens' questions as best as possible. A local security survey was therefore organised in 2011 to replace the safety monitor. The current zonal safety plans will run until 2017, which means that the zones will have to draw up a new plan. Do you intend to work out something together with the municipalities to collect data on which they can base themselves for the preparation of their solar safety plan? If so, how do you think this is feasible and within what timeframe?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u6	Mr Demon, as you rightly say, the security monitor used to exist. There was cooperation between the FPS Home Office and the federal police to carry it out. We have put that aside for the time being for budgetary reasons. I fully understand that for the policy on population and victim surveys, instruments such as the security monitor are very valuable, both in drawing up the new zonal security plans, as you said, and in the framework of the national security plan, the framework paper. Those are all interesting tools. However, if the zones or municipalities wish to carry out the local security survey questionnaire, they can count on the support of the federal police in a number of areas, such as sampling, checking the questionnaire, adding a number of local questions, and the methodology of data collection and input. The statistical processing and reporting of tables, graphs and the like cannot currently be organised by the federal police and must therefore be done at the municipality or in the zone itself. If there was a great interest, i.e. on a larger scale, then a possible change in priorities is negotiable, but only for providing expertise and support in manpower, not for shipping costs and so on. This is not an objective of the current coalition agreement. Nevertheless, I agree with the importance of this. Launching such an integrated security survey requires support, coordination and resources. I will seize the opportunity, but I cannot give you any guarantee regarding implementation or timing. We want to support the local areas and municipalities that want to do such a survey with advice and deed, so that they do not have to reinvent the hot water again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u7	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u8	We have prepared the questionnaire and the local areas were able to add questions, specifically about their situation. So it's a mix.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u9	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u10	We did that ourselves at the time. We are not going to do that now, but we would like to assist you with advice and deed by making the questionnaires available and updating them with additional questions. However, we are no longer going to do so on that scale.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u11	Minister, you and your fellow Minister, Alexander De Croo, would have a plan ready for the launch of i-Police. Through i-Police, artificial intelligence would be used by the police to better assess risk derivatives, detect criminal networks and proactively deploy police resources. A total of EUR 110 million would be invested in the project. The problem is that many police data are still fragmented and only after the necessary actions and validations enter the central systems. I-Police would link data to each other via an ECS system, allowing cloud effect. In addition, i-Police must combine search systems with alarm functions. I-Police would also offer a range of advantages. For example, for the preparation of minutes, agents should no longer be sent to the Bureau. You can do that on the grounds. At the same time, the data becomes immediately available in the central systems, allowing even provisional information to be shared much faster with other corpses and services. Firstly, is the project being implemented through Belgian hosting providers? Secondly, the government agreement of 10 October 2014 contains the following passage, I quote: "The computerisation of justice must be aligned with the computerisation of the police in order to facilitate the flow of information." The alignment of police computerisation with computerization in the Justice Department can undoubtedly speed up this flow of information. Is that recorded in i-Police? If not, what is the status of that file? Thirdly, according to various media channels, i-Police is partly financed from the special commission of EUR 400 million for additional security interventions, EUR 95 million, and EUR 15 million from the special security pool. Can you confirm that? Since computerization in the police sector is included in the government agreement, it seems to me advisable to finance it with the funds included in the budget. Finally, the Netherlands has been using the system for some time. Intensive cooperation between different units, including financial institutions, has led to the arrest of a number of suspects. Have you been in contact with foreign colleagues? Were there any best practices exchanged?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u12	Minister, as Mr. Top has said, you and your colleague De Croo have decided to provide your police services with mathematical algorithms that are supposed to better help them assess risks and better detect criminal networks. This decision comes at a time when, on 23 May, an investigation published by the US independent information and investigation site ProPublica showed that these decision-support algorithms, in any case in the case of the United States, were extremely ineffective. Indeed, many local courts in the United States use predictive software to attempt to assess the risk of recidivism of those tried. These programs are designed as decision-making aids - exactly like your program - for magistrates, when they have to decide on bail or conviction. The ProPublica site has analysed Northpointe's Compas software in detail. The researchers compared the recidivism risk scores attributed by the program with actual recidivism cases across a U.S. county for two years. Thus, by excluding incarcerated persons from the research work, the study notes that: "The score reflects in an incredibly wrong way the risk of committing a violent crime: only 20% of those whose program felt they would commit a violent crime did." In addition, the software in question systematically overshadows the risk of recidivism for African Americans, who are twice as often as whites attribute a medium or high risk of recidivism. Above all, the programme fails in both cases: it greatly overestimates the risk of Blacks recidivism and underestimates this risk for whites, as the analysis of subsequent convictions shows. Where, minister, my four questions. Were you and your services aware of the significant difficulties that these decision-support software poses in the United States, to the extent that your colleague, the American Minister of Justice himself, Eric Holder, expressed concern about the massive deployment of these programs? Could you please tell me which specific police departments will be equipped with these predictive tools? When will the call for tenders be launched? Will Northpointe be eligible for bidders? What safeguards are you planning to avoid what, in the case of the United States, is akin to ethnic profiling? Is it appropriate to foresee that a quarter of the budget earmarked for the fight against terrorism should be allocated to this type of technological programme, bearing in mind that one of the first lessons learned from the attacks in Brussels is the lack of staff capable of analysing the relevant information already available?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u13	Mr President, Minister, the police organisation in Belgium is based on the concept of "information-led policing". I had read somewhere, and that is what it means, that "information is harvesting, it's processing and it's sharing." These are three key words that are very important to the notion of information. In the past, we have encountered pitfalls that have led to an important, essential reform that has created the police on two levels. Now we're talking about i-Police. I believe that this is the dawn of just as essential, equally important, reform. It is therefore important to agree on this plan of technological integration, which must normally guarantee an optimum sharing of information, whether at the level of the internal police services, but also with other security operators, be they Belgian or foreign. Minister, what software is currently being used by our police services? How long have they been? Will they be completely deleted or will they be updated? Will benchmarking be carried out with the police services of neighbouring States and other partners, including through existing protocols? Will an analysis be carried out in the context of this benchmarking to ensure the compatibility of the new technologies to be introduced between the different Member States of the European Union and Europol's services? On Europol, I think I will have the opportunity to ask you a little more about it later this afternoon. What services in your department or subcontractors will they develop these new applications and technologies within our country's police services? What methodology will be used? More generally, what is the budget allocated under this plan for police services?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u14	Mr Minister, the Belgian police will undergo a small technological revolution, which has often been criticized in recent times mainly because of the lack of resources at their disposal to investigate effectively. Indeed, the time of the i-Police has arrived. No less than €110 million will be released to achieve full digitisation within the police by 2017. I read that this money will be raised from the government's $400 million budget for the fight against terrorism. In concrete terms, i-Police will result in access to the federal and local integrated police, to the latest digital applications in the so-called smart police field. The police already have digital data, but this information is still too often fragmented and stored in isolated systems, which prevents an overall view or automatic updating of all systems for each new information introduced by the police. The goal of the police is to connect all of these systems with each other through new applications, including the use of clouds, such as Apple's Icloud. It is in this context that the first portable police offices are in the test phase in Liège. Minister, can you tell us more about this project and its implementation? How will the EUR 110 million budget be allocated? Do you confirm that it will be punctured on the 400 million interdepartmental reserve? What are the deadlines for the implementation of this project beyond the test phase? Are services such as the IRU and the recently endangered FCCU intended to be included in this project? What monitoring mechanisms are planned to validate the information introduced by the agents? What mechanisms are planned to secure infiltrations into systems and applications? Can you already give us an initial analysis of the results of the test conducted in Liège?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a rather detailed answer because I think this is an important project. Mr President, I also recommend setting up a session on i-Police with the police officer, Mr Wim Liekens, on how to see this more concretely, possibly with examples. The direction of the implementation of i-Police belongs to the powers of the federal police. Operational coordination shall be conducted under the direction of the Executive Board of Information and ICT Resources. This project will not be set up via hosting providers, but it is the intention to subpoena i-Police and then host it in a government data centre, given the sensitivity of the data. So it will not be hosted externally, but internally on a government data centre. The task of drafting a specification to acquire this computer solution through a public procurement contract was entrusted to the Federal Police. Suppliers will therefore be able to bid. The federal police will also be responsible for the implementation of the chosen solution. The alignment of police computerisation with justice can indeed improve and, if possible, speed up the flow of information. We cannot do that alone; we will not do that alone. It is very clear that there must be links there. That is why Justice is an important partner in the development of the i-Police project. The intention is that i-Police should pay sufficient attention to the possibility of connecting to and from external platforms, in particular with Justice. As you asked, Mr. Pivin, this should be a system where connections are open to internal and international partners. I am not saying that the system must be opened but that connections must exist. Such links today, with the current architecture and the system we now have, are a major challenge. However, in the short term attention will also be paid to coordination between the police and the judiciary, as provided for in the government agreement. Both organisations had started consultations on this subject, but this has temporarily come into the background because of the priorities associated with the attacks. The arrival of a new ICT director at the Justice Department can also speed up the consultation process. The services concerned will continue to examine what is possible in the short term, so that the necessary lessons can be learned for the implementation of i-Police. The specifications will have to specify all the needs to which this solution will have to meet and whose compatibility with European and international systems is certainly part of it. The European Union has already issued various directives to which we must refer in order to ensure the interoperability of systems. I confirm that the budget will be charged to the 400 million interdepartmental reserve. We have a budget of 110 million, of which 95 million will come from this reserve of 400 million. These 400 million are planned for 2016. What we are going to use of that $95 million will be charged against that $400 million, but it will only be a part. We will also allocate this amount over the years to come. It is not correct to say that this project will use 110 million of the 400. In the long term, the aim is to ensure that funding continues through the regular budget. That's what I just explained. Funding from a special commission is necessary to ensure that the new solution becomes active while the others still apply. In the light of reception and continuity, there will have to be a gradual changeover. We also aim to make available the functionalities that help in the fight against terrorism. It is appropriate to invest in technologies because they are intended to facilitate the work of staff. Today we are caught in a spiral of increasing demands from staff to be up to the ever-increasing digital information mountain processing. Technology is therefore urgently needed to assist the police. The Netherlands does not yet use the system because it does not now have a total solution. The Netherlands does indeed use a limited part for analysis. The business case for i-Police has just been established following intensive benchmarking with various police services from Europe and beyond, as well as with the IT industry. So the business case for i-Police was made, which was done. In the discussion on interdepartmental commission, we put it on the table and got budgets for it. We did not argue that there was a budget and that we would therefore consider i-Police. The business case was done. Our experts have good contacts with police services abroad. They even received a very intensive briefing at the London Metropolitan Police. The challenges facing police services in this area have a common foundation, but there are also many different specific concerns. However, our situation is quite unique, in the sense that we already have a national database (BNG), which is not the case in many other countries. In addition, the federal police will also continue to keep us informed of certain procurement procedures that are underway abroad and that we want to learn from in order to be able to use them if they are favourable to us. Mr Hellings, in response to your specific question, the publication on ProPublica of May 23, 2016 to which you refer concerns a software specifically dedicated to the correctional system. The software conducts an analysis of the risk of recidivism presented by the criminal authors in order to decide whether or not they can be released. On the other hand, i-Police is a concept designed to make police information available to police officers more quickly and more effectively in order to solve crimes. As you have rightly indicated, it is humanly impossible to analyze all available data. This is why advanced automation using the most modern techniques is required. This therefore has no bearing on the assessment of the perpetrators of criminal acts in the context of their release, which, moreover, falls within the jurisdiction of the justice system. It is therefore not for this purpose that we are going to use i-Police. In terms of predictive tools in the context of i-Police, we refer instead to algorithms that are able to detect anomalies in the flow of data available to the police, be it own police data but also data from open sources. This can be compared with the algorithms used by tax services to identify businesses at risk. In concrete terms, this means that the police could improve in terms of prevention or proactivity on the basis of an analysis of the facts that have occurred before. I repeat that the software mentioned is very specifically oriented towards the prison environment and the administration of justice and is, to our knowledge, not intended for the police. As for i-Police, it will consist in part of analytical tools, the predictive part of which is only one element. These tools will therefore provide police officers with important research opportunities. It is envisaged that opportunities tailored to the needs and purposes for which the services concerned can and can work will be offered at different levels within the police. Finally, it is impossible to predict whether a specific manufacturer will be a bidder. It is not because the police will have new technology that they will be free to use it as they wish. There are strict laws governing the management of police information and this will continue. The legislator will continue to determine how far and by whom these analyses can be performed. However, it is true that some people will sometimes be given special attention, as is already the case at present. It is obvious that algorithms using skin colour as a determinant of the potentiality of committing a criminal act will always be excluded. Our legislation provides that public authority systems are based not only on respect for privacy but also on equal rights and the principle of non-discrimination. This concludes my answer to Mr Hellings' question. The project will be implemented in phases between 2017 and 2021. It represents a real challenge for an organization of the size of the font whose requirements are important in terms of functionality and security. All needs will be considered with the support of users. Project governance will take into account all user groups with their macroscopic needs first. The analysis will be carried out by field of business rather than by organic service. The needs of the Federal Computer Crime Unit (FCCU) will be found in the needs analysis of the "judicial investigation" process and probably in a few other processes still to be defined. The monitoring mechanisms will be the same as those used today: the police will always have to comply with the legislation in force, in particular article 44 of the Act (Privacy Act), etc. The difference will lie in easier automation of some controls. In addition, the system can be programmed to become more intelligent by itself and offer additional controls. With regard to safety and systems, preliminary tests and analyses are under way to optimize the safety of the ICT equipment used and the systems. The results, as well as the proposals of i-Police solution providers, will be used to make the safety of new systems as efficient as possible. The security component will have to apply different principles to ensure that the integrity of information is guaranteed and that illegitimate access is prohibited. From earlier intrusions detected, we have learned that the introduction of a new, more open technology never goes hand in hand with zero risk. We have indeed been made aware of the initiative of the Liège police zone. However, I would like to make it clear that there is no filiation with the i-Police project. This is a local initiative, as is the case elsewhere in the country, which aims to cover a need that all field police officers feel, namely the need to bring computer tools available in police stations to the field. The i-Police project will of course take up this need on its own. For the rest, I have no indication of the first results of this project. However, I will ask the Federal Police to take language with the local police in Liège for the continuation of this test, since it must validate the local solutions that give access to the central systems. As far as the approach is concerned, I visit many police areas and I see applications everywhere that are developed, sometimes by professional companies, sometimes by people who really know well (...) and who develop useful systems or applications. What we want to do with i-Police is to provide for a common base where these applications can be included. This has nothing to do with the data but the way we can use systems. It is clear that each application must be tested and validated by the federal police. In that case, we can use it. We will even inform that we have developed in this area of Liège something really useful that should be used. We really want to create this common foundation to include all our databases and applications. Mr Pivin, listing software in use within the integrated police force is almost an impossible task, because it is a very long list. Moreover, many of these softwares are developed internally, as I said, and their name would not give you much information. These systems have been implemented as they began in the 1990s. Some applications are even earlier. The problem is that all these systems are difficult to maintain, adapt to legislative changes and the operational needs of the police. It is also difficult to integrate them with each other and with external systems. I explained earlier what is planned. Under the public procurement procedure, a decision will be taken as to which applications will be replaced by a new solution and which will have to be maintained. This will be a matter of opportunity and cost-benefit analysis. As already stated, the solution will be acquired through a public procurement. Local police will also be involved with the federal police in the decision-making process through ICT governance, which will be established within the integrated police force. The project will be managed by the federal police, but the local police will be represented in the group that will accompany this project. This involvement will be at the level of needs determination, then at the level of Strategic Committee I, in which it participates through several Chiefs of Staff, which finally proposes the priorities for decision to the Integrated Police Coordination Committee, where the local police is represented by the Standing Committee on Local Police. We still need to decide to what extent our services and justice services will be involved in the governance of this project. It is clear that collaboration will be necessary. Intensive benchmarking in the police services of other states, neighbours and others, has been carried out. The challenges facing police services in this area have a common foundation, but there are also many different specific concerns. However, our situation is quite unique in that we already have a national database, which is not the case in many other countries. In addition, the federal police will also continue to keep us informed of certain market procedures in other countries. I've already talked about it. The specifications will have to specify all the needs to which this solution will have to meet and in line with the European and international systems of which they are certainly part. The European Union has already issued various directives to which the police will have to refer in order to guarantee the interoperability of systems. I now turn to the answers to Mr. Pivin. The way in which the local police will be involved in the development of this plan has already been mentioned in the answer to another question. It will therefore be involved throughout the implementation of this project. As for the cost to the local police, it will have to continue to provide its IT infrastructure, as is already the case. For i-Police licences, they will be funded from the federal budget for the acquisition of the i-Police solution. Local police are involved in the decision-making process through ICT governance, which will be established within the integrated police force. This involvement is at the level of needs determination, then at the level of Strategic Committee I in which it participates through several Chiefs of Staff who ultimately propose the priorities. I think I've answered almost all the questions. For me, it is quite possible that Mr Liekens will come with a detailed and more concrete presentation in order to give you an idea of this plan. It's important for the future of the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u16	Minister, your suggestion for the explanatory statement on i-Police has already been passed on to discuss next week in the organisation of work. Mr Top, I give you the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for the very detailed answer you have given. One thing in your answer is not entirely clear to me: we need cooperation with the Justice Department on this matter. I ask you to confirm that. I have mentioned some concerns to which you have responded, concerns about effectiveness, correctness and integrity of all software and all data. The use of the data must be monitored correctly and correctly. There is also the fact of the procedure. You have already given up the timetable: 2017-2021. That is also being followed up by a committee, and that must be done properly. You referred to the Netherlands where this is kept very limited in its operation. You have indicated that there are other countries and perhaps you can also take their tips with you. If they are further advanced in terms of software and its use, then perhaps the right methods can be adopted from them or at least listened to. I have another concern. You gave up the timeline earlier. From experience, I know, and perhaps you too, that the timeframe of ICT projects is very difficult to control and how difficult it is to get the implementation done by the deadline set. Another concern is the cost to the local police. I'm sure you'll keep an eye out for it not to blow the whistle. There is one final point that I am not entirely clear on. You mentioned the first 110 million, of which 95 million is earmarked for 2016, which comes from the security commission. The security commission, is that the 400 million extra provided for in the fight against radicalisation and extremism?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u18	What we will need as part of this project in 2016, comes from the pot of 400 million. That 400 million is made up of structural budgets and one-off budgets. Structural budgets are being extended to the following years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u19	Part of that 400 million...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u20	Part of that 200 million, which is structural, will be used for i-Police in 2016, but will be continued in the following years. It's not 95 million out of 400 million in 2016. If you add up every year, you will get 95 million, perhaps even a little more. You talked about timing. It is often said to apply the factor P to the budgets. In 2016, that will not be 95 million and not 50 million out of that 400 million, but part of it. Why do we do that? It could be said that we have an IT budget today, but the current systems will go through until they are replaced by it. It's on top of it. What was your first comment again? I wanted to respond to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u21	Effectiveness, concerns about the correctness of the software and cooperation with Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u22	As regards cooperation with Justice, in the key tasks debate, we have said that we now have a number of issues and that phase 2 of the key tasks debate will mainly be the interaction between police and justice. I would like to go there, also in the context of i-Police and of section 2 of the key tasks debate, to a business process where we do not copy everything, as is the case today, but first check whether we can achieve efficiency gains and then automate that business.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u23	As part of the decision of the government agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u24	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u25	My only concern is that we are reducing a budget of the extra 400 million provided for in the framework of measures...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u26	I think we need this in the fight against terrorism. One of the criticisms from the committee is too many databases.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u27	Yeah, you should. That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u28	Not that there are too many databases, but one cannot search them properly. I-Police is, as I have just said, a platform in which people will be able to ask about these different databases.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u29	Agreed, but the coalition agreement also stated that there would be better cooperation and the merging of databases. In fact, I find it regrettable that the 400 million commission is already being used to finance other measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u30	It has to be paid.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u31	I understand, of course, your concern for the finances.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u32	Mr President, for my part, I shall be much more brief. I note that every time we talk about computers, Mr. Pivin and I have to talk to you, Minister. After the electronic vote, there is now a question of the police. So we're used to talking about computers. What is it? Contrary to what some colleagues claim, these are not mere digitisations. It is not, as the Minister of Justice is doing for his department, to digitize the police that would be in great need of it. As you said, it's about using the data in the BNG, which is an important database, using algorithms and detecting anomalies, hazard profiles, doing Big Data, profiling. That is what we are talking about. It is not just about providing the police with computers or smartphones. This involves using an algorithm to define hazard profiles. Regardez Minority Report! As you have said, Mr Minister – I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to read the report – to be a system capable of becoming more intelligent on its own. This is something other than a simple digitization of information! On the other hand, it will not be enough to say incantatoryly that the bill will comply with the Anti-Discrimination Act and the Privacy Act. Of course, the algorithm – we will have an opportunity to discuss it if a member of the SPF is to come and present the project – will have to be equipped with firewall systems to avoid ethnic profiling, since in previous cases ethnic profiling has been evident in the United States. Finally, in my view, the 95 million in question should be used, in particular, to organize encoding courses. Indeed, the police need personnel who can encode the information. Because it is the knowledge of the ground that allows capital information about a terrorist or a great criminal to be encoded in the BNG and consulted by the police. Take the case of Salah Abdeslam: information on his danger existed in the Schengen Information System (SIS) database. She had been encoded, but she was not consulted while Salah Abdeslam was arrested three times on the road between Paris and Brussels. It is therefore not a need for profiling, but a need for staff and staff able to consult the available information. However, there are too few staff or, in any case, there is no training to consult the database which, however, exists. In my view, the SIS database is an important database that needs to be better used. It would be better to organize this kind of training rather than embarking on adventurous projects of extremely expensive and inefficient profiling.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u33	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Hellings, you are really making a mix because of a great lack of knowledge of the system. That is your right as a representative in this chamber. Maybe after a presentation, you'll have a better view. As far as profiling is concerned, as I said in my speech, we are bound by the legislative framework and, with software, we can do what we want, but we can also limit what we need to limit. Otherwise, the budget... we need to develop a system that respects the legislative framework in which ethno profiling is not planned. You're talking about the staff. In the 400 million, more staff is planned. The number of federal police officers will be increased by 1,200. I intend to recruit 1,600 people this year, 1,400 next year and 1,400 the following year. If you say you don't have to invest, it probably means you have little view of the current integrated police computer system. I think anyone who has contact with the local police and the federal police could tell you. Perhaps you should ask for a demonstration of all these systems. For my part, I am convinced of the need to modernize these systems and I will fight to do so. It's more than urgent!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u34	Minister, unlike you, I participated in the discussions on the installation of the BNG three years ago when this database was developed. At the time, it was – it has always been presented like this – an opportunity for the police to put the crucial information, to solve crimes and cases, in a place that is accessible to as many people as possible who have the task of solving these crimes. It is very different to operate an algorithm on these data and define hazard profiles. It's very different. It's something else. It's another world and that world, it's the one in Minority Report and it's not the one I want to live in.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u35	Mr Minister, I was wondering about the change in philosophy because, in any case, we are moving towards radical modernization, and that is very good. I share your view on this matter. Should we not take a look at the modules in police schools, because in the short term some of them may need to be completed or reviewed in order to implement what will be implemented? That's a suggestion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u36	Minister, thank you for this very comprehensive answer. Of course, it would be useful to hear from the CPS official on this matter. This idea of making software already used in certain police areas transferable is interesting. Often, when new software is implemented, all others are removed. However, keeping what professional and field people – not always computer scientists – have done before and which works in a complementary way seems to me to be really sensible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u37	Question No 11801 by Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u38	Minister, I had already had the opportunity to ask you about the problem of the hours taken by local police officers to monitor prisons. The Walloon Brabant is concerned because there are two prisons in our province, Ittre and Nivelles. It has now been several weeks since the guards disconnected in order to denounce their working conditions and lack of staff. The officers of the West Walloon Brabant and Nivelles-Genappe areas must compensate for this strike and be present in the prisons. Various figures are available: 440 hours were spent in Nivelles prison. I'm now being told about 1080 hours. I don't know if you have any details on that. This is a lot of hours worked and we have already exceeded the number of hours worked in 2015. This poses financial and organizational problems for police areas. Minister, a few months ago, when the help for radicalized prisoners was opened in Ittre, you promised me to reassess the situation regularly and increase the number of police officers if necessary. Do you not think that the situation actually requires a reassessment of the number of police officers for the West Walloon Brabant zone and the Nivelles-Genappe zone?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u39	Given the current context and the exceptional duration of the prison guards' strike, all integrated police services have been urged, either directly from the point of view of the location of a prison in the territory, or indirectly through the solidarity mechanisms provided for in Ministerial Directive No. 2. Aware of this overload of work, we have made every effort to relieve the police, including the use of reinforcements for military personnel who have also recently been present in prisons. As far as my answer to your previous question is concerned, I would like to remind you that I have said the following: "If the police workload is proven, we will of course examine all possible avenues to be able to increase the strength of this police area or to support it in its missions, in particular through the call for the staff of the DirCo concerned". In this context, in relation to the two police zones you are quoting, reinforcements have been provided, both by other police areas and by the federal police under the coordination of the DirCo of Walloon Brabant. We have therefore come to help these two areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u40	Minister, thank you for your answers. The situation will have to be kept under review because if there is an urgent appeal to other police areas for the time being, there is also all the usual work of the police officers that is no longer being done. There is therefore a significant delay which must also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u41	Mr President, Minister, according to some statistics, more than 46,000 Twitter accounts are being used daily by persons belonging to or supporting the Islamic State, producing more than 90,000 daily messages on all social networks. In order to halt the expansion of Islamist propaganda on the Internet, the federal police adopted last January an Internet Reference Unit (IRU), a new cyber-unit, whose mission is to combat Islamist propaganda online and to censor jihadist content. Consisting of about 10 agents, the Commission continuously conducts patrols to detect and suppress terrorist content broadcast on the Internet, the main vector of the massive propaganda strategy of these terrorist groups. It should also be noted that this is not only visible on the Internet. I, too, went to police services and found that there is also the whole dark net aspect that requires a very special know-how. We can only congratulate the officers for their work, which I know is not always easy. Minister, has an initial evaluation of the results of this cyber unit already been completed? Can you tell us a little more? Has the recruitment of twenty new agents for this Internet Referral Unit planned by the Inland FPS ever taken place? When can these be fully effective? I imagine that there is also training before the start of service. Finally, does cooperation between the IRU of the Federal Police and other similar units in other EU Member States currently exist? What will be the modalities of such cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u42	Mr President, Minister, last summer the Internet Referral Unit was established. This police unit is part of the Directorate for Combating Serious and Organised Crime. At the moment, about ten agents are working. They search the Internet for radical messages. You announced that you want to increase this number to about 30 searchers to search social media for messages with a radicalising message. Within what time do you plan these recruitments? With what budget will they happen? How is cooperation currently going with similar services in the different European Member States? How many Belgian messages about radicalism have already been removed by that agency?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u43	Mr President, Minister, according to some sources, more than 46,000 Twitter accounts are being used by people supporting the Islamic State, producing some 90,000 daily messages on social media. We know the very random and doubtful nature of the studies purporting to give a measure of the "tonality" of the messages published on social networks. However, it is a well-established fact that the propaganda of terrorist organizations plays an effective role in online communication. To combat this online propaganda and censor jihadist content, in January the Federal Police launched a new police unit, the IRU (Internet Reference Unit). This cell is currently composed of about ten agents, but you have announced the engagement of 20 additional agents. Minister, how have the situation and the tasks of the IRU evolved since its launch? What will be the missions of these 20 additional officers? Under what criteria will they be selected? How do agents proceed once they discover jihadist content? Can you give us more information on the content of their missions and on the monitoring of these phenomena? Does a magistrate intervene at any stage of the proceedings?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u44	Mr President, I note that we discussed in detail in the previous question how to get the police involved in computer science into the 21st century. I also note that this question is about the Internet and what is happening there. Finally, I note that I still have to bring paper with me in this Chamber, because if we want to work automated, the systems are not operationally certain. I have absolutely nothing to say to the legislature, but we could nevertheless take a step forward in saving a lot of trees if you could urge the President of the Chamber that we should be able to work automatically. I cannot suggest that, because I belong to the executive.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u45	I fully agree with you. In fact, for those who want to use Wi-Fi here, this is a cumbersome procedure. In addition, the Wi-Fi capacity has already been used up. Investment must be made urgently. I'll certainly pass on the message, because I'm a asking party myself. The advantage is that this is included in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u46	I have made it clear that it is not for me to say anything about this. Colleagues, the management of DJSOC received the candidates' files last week and is currently preparing the selection committee. Taking into account the current procedures, I would estimate that the first... Mr. Demon, you always talk about agents!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u47	I know, they're policemen. I have to make an urgent adjustment to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u48	... that the first policemen will start working in the services from 1 September 2016. The recruitments take place with the federal police budget. Candidates must have the general skills required to work as a judicial police investigator: to gather judicial information; to search for persons, crimes, offences and objects; to gather evidence and make perpetrators available to the judicial authorities; to use specific techniques and tactics; to maintain and deepen their knowledge, specific tactics and techniques acquired to provide an irreproachable and high-quality service; to establish and/or analyse and/or monitor files in accordance with the regulations or procedures in force; to manage and use relevant information relating to the specific field in order to make it available to enable everyone to carry out their tasks and/or to comply with ad hoc procedures; on the basis of their expertise in these fields of activity, to carry out analyses and to provide advice to requesting services and partners in order to assist them in their tasks. In short, the same thing one does in the real world, patrolling, one has to do here but by other means. When criminal matters are discovered, appropriate action must be taken, according to the legal plowings. In fact, this can be compared to what needs to be done in the virtual or in the real world. After receiving appropriate in-house training based on the needs of the service, the additional officers will carry out all the tasks currently carried out in terms of both Internet and IRU searches. Internet searches mean searching for someone on the basis of indications. IRU means patrols. It's about going to see what's going on, especially on the dark net. I turn to the following questions by Mr Demon, Mrs Jadin and Mr Blanchart. On 1 July 2015, by decision of the JHA (Council of Ministers of Justice and the Interior), Europol established the European Union Internet Reference Unit in order to better combat terrorist recruitment and propaganda via the Internet, as well as violent radicalism. This unit has been working with European partners since 1 January to share the identification of sites with content related to violent radicalism. There is a similar service to combat paedophilia. Within the Federal Police, I have set up a single contact point at the Directorate of Serious and Organized Crime (DJSOC) within the Internet Investigations Unit. There are members of the Judicial Police and the Administrative Police. This I2 unit works in support of the entire Belgian police landscape and, through its BE-IRU component, in close cooperation with the EU-IRU. Given the current situation, most activities have been directed towards violent radicalism, but unity can also work in the context of phenomena related to terrorism (drugs, weapons, trafficking in human beings, paedophilia). A first evaluation was carried out. Unit I2, whose task package is wider than mere detection, often works in support of other services. Between 1 January and 15 May, Unit I2, composed of 8 persons, was requested on 488 occasions, including 365 on terrorism, 3 on arms, 4 on human trafficking and 15 on drugs. Their support also enabled the identification of a group of very active hackers in the national territory. Depending on the demand, these supports involve an investment of a few hours to a few days or even weeks. Finally, from 22 March to 30 April, Unit I2 provided a 24-hour, 7-day/7 service. With regard to the IRU's specific referral activities, 138 Twitter account files were examined. These were identified and then removed. In 103 files the same actions were taken for Facebook accounts. The reasons for expulsion were: glorification of terrorist acts or threats with new attacks or calls for hatred. It goes without saying that close cooperation should be established with Europol and with the corresponding foreign departments. This cooperation, which takes place in accordance with the general rules of police cooperation, will be strengthened by the future selection of a CP specialised in the field. He will be employed by the EU-IRU. Mr Blanchart, the Internet research unit works both in support of the applicant units and on its own initiative. When jihadist content is discovered, in case of support, the internet search cell saves the collected elements and coordinates with the investigation units. In the event of an initiative, it shall draw up a report. In the case of the discovery of reference materials, I refer to the answer already given. In order to monitor the phenomenon, the unit will subsequently draw up a statistic. In the event of an infringement, the cell shall draw up a report and transmit it to the prosecutor's office, which shall take charge of the case. A magistrate intervenes when a judicial summons is necessary or when the application of special methods of research so requires.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u49	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u50	Mr President, I also thank the minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u51	Questions Nos 11818 and 11819 by Mr Nollet have been postponed. Mr Top is currently on another committee, but he will be coming back here soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u52	Deputy Prime Minister, according to his annual report presented last week, Child Focus recorded an increase last year in reports of disappearances of unaccompanied foreign minors (MENA). Indeed, in 2015, just over 5,000 new MENA were registered in Belgium, more than twice as many as a year ago. For example, Child Focus processed 66 cases last year involving missing unaccompanied foreign minors, including 36 new cases. That was 24 in 2014. In addition, between January and May 2016, 32 new files have already been opened. Of the young people concerned, the majority were boys, and almost a third were of Afghan origin, followed by Eritrea (10 per cent) and Syria (5 per cent). These figures are only the tip of the iceberg, as it is impossible to estimate the exact number of MENA missing. Too often, the police and other services give up in the face of these disappearances because of a lack of research resources. Yet these young people, because of their vulnerability, are at greater risk of becoming victims of human trafficking or sexual exploitation. Are specific provisions made with regard to missing MENA compared to other cases of disappearances of minors? What means are being used to deal with these situations? Are there specific training and awareness programmes for the various players involved in the protection of MENA?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u53	Mr Kir, this type of question involves several competences. For example, questions 1 and 2 concerning Fedasil fall within the competence of Mr. Franken. As far as justice is concerned, Mr Geens has jurisdiction. I will answer you as regards the police in this matter, and more specifically the Missing Persons Cell. I am therefore aware that my answer is incomplete. I'm sorry. The approach to the disappearance of MENA is based on the requirements of the Ministerial Directive on the Search for Missing Persons (COL9/2002 and COL12/2014). This directive devotes a specific chapter to this sensitive issue. The complexity of the problem is mainly due to the fact that they are minors or adults, whose age is sometimes difficult to establish because their identity is unknown. They use false or falsified identity documents. Given the specific nature of this type of disappearance, it is often impossible to use conventional means of investigation (telephony, research). They are very often people who want to be discreet in the face of the police and/or justice, because their final destination is usually not Belgium, but in most cases the United Kingdom. Almost all of these people are unknown to our Belgian society and for them, the use of conventional means of research (research notices, media) does not offer any added value. These people are a little close to all conventional research systems. It's very difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u54	Minister, I hear your answer very well and thank you for it. I understand that it is obviously not easy to be able to investigate when you don't have a database, when people are not already identified beforehand. I will not fail, minister, to ask your colleagues the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u55	Mr President, Mr Minister, as President of the Hainaut-Est relief zone, and following my previous statement concerning the shortage of volunteers, you mentioned that, according to your information, the percentage of success at the hinge session in Jurbise was lower than that at the other fire schools. An evaluation was carried out by the Federal Knowledge Centre for Civil Security (KCCE). I would remind you that volunteers are essential in our area where the shortage of staff is particularly acute, particularly in rural areas. Minister, what about this assessment? Has a comparative analysis been carried out of the review procedures with the other areas? Are the evaluation criteria and expected competencies the same as in other areas? Can you clarify this higher failure rate than elsewhere? What are the procedures for the examinations conducted in Jurbise? What evaluation criteria are used? What skills indicators are selected?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u56	Mr Blanchart, in the second part of 2015, four fire schools in Wallonia organised the tests relating to the obtaining of the certificate of aptitude of the Federal: Hainaut, Liège, Luxembourg and Namur. This was the first time such events had been organized. To obtain this certificate, candidates must pass three aptitude tests: a competency test, known as a cognitive test, an operational manual skill test, and physical fitness tests. Analysis of the final results of the aptitude tests revealed significant disparities in the success rate of the various fire schools. This varies from 15.26 to 56.9 per cent. My services have carried out a thorough analysis of these results, which shows that this difference was essentially related to the operational manual skill test. The success rate in this test ranges from 21 to 99%. To complete your information, the description of the operational manual skill tests is provided by the KCCE to fire schools. Among the tests provided, the fire school selects two of them and passes the tests to the candidates. The tests provided to the schools take up the purpose of the exercise, which must be produced by the candidate, the tools to be made available to the candidate and the time given to the candidate to complete the test. My administration has taken the initiative of organizing a meeting with all the directors of Walloon Fire Schools to analyse the modalities of examination and how to standardize the evaluation criteria for future operational manual suitability tests. This meeting was held on 11 January at the Federal Knowledge Centre for Civil Security. It appears from this meeting that a threefold dynamic seems to explain these disparate results. First, there is a lack of precision in the criteria for evaluating the operational manual proficiency tests provided to fire schools. These were limited to the achievement of the objective, whether achieved by the candidate or not, and to the fulfilment of the deadline for implementation by the candidate. Some schools have therefore tried to objectify these tests by adding qualitative criteria (solidity of the work performed, use of appropriate tools). Secondly, the different interpretation of certain criteria at school level. For example, for a test that included five minutes of preparation and five minutes of execution, some schools estimated that the total time to complete the test was 10 minutes, while others considered that the five-minute rule of preparation should be strictly observed before starting. Finally, too short a time limit for carrying out certain tests. Instructors who pass the operational manual proficiency tests quickly found that the time allowed for candidates to complete certain tests was too short. This criterion, in the end, was decisive in explaining the differences in results between fire schools. In order to prevent such situations in the future, it was decided to clarify the implementation instructions and standardize the evaluation sheets. For each test, it was decided to specify the qualitative criteria and to introduce compliance with the safety instructions as an evaluation criterion, as well as to specify the deadlines given to candidates or to adapt those deadlines, in particular in cases where they appear insufficient. All these measures should have the effect of standardizing the tests and achieving substantially the same or comparable results in the various fire schools. Some of these, in Hainaut, organize a second test to obtain the certificate. My services will carefully follow the results of these tests. As for the arrangements for organizing the tests at the Jurbise Fire School, the general march was the prescribed one: two workshops to be compulsorily successful and candidates declared fit or unfit. The evaluators were very serious, experienced and brief firefighters before completing their mission. So it all took place according to established rules. The evaluation criteria for the operational manual proficiency tests were five for each of the two tests. The tests were therefore organised in a consistent and regular manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u57	Minister, thank you for these answers. I assume that the process in place will result in smaller gaps in the future. Always it is that evaluation is a profession. It's not improvising. I know a lot about tradesmen. It is the same in technical and vocational education, in Wallonia and Flanders. We need to be trained in these skills assessment methods. Perhaps it would be interesting if fire schools could get in touch with the inspectors of the technical education of the Communities, so that they could have a little more control over the skills assessment tools. The methods used for this purpose have really borne fruit in the technical education of the French Community and, I imagine, also in Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u58	Questions Nos 11871 and 11872 by Mrs Gabriels are postponed. As I said earlier, Mr Top is still on another committee and he will be returning later. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 11910 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Maingain's 11911 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u59	Mr. Chairman, Minister, my question has two parts. On the one hand, I wanted to ask the minister the more general question of violence during demonstrations and, on the other hand, the more specific question of violence against police officers. Already in November 2014, many police officers had been injured during the large national demonstration. On 24 May, both demonstrators and police officers were wounded again. In both cases, the investigative newspaper Resistances.be revealed that among those who attacked during the demonstrations were "casseurs" from Dutch neo-Nazi militant groups. These were clearly identified during the heats with the security forces at the end of the journey. For several years, these Dutch activists have been in contact in Belgium with fascist groups and have regularly returned to our territory, in particular to infiltrate trade union demonstrations. Even more serious, violence no longer seems to be the result of a few "casseurs" but increasingly accompanies, and structurally, social protest movements within us as well as in other European countries. Minister, on the one hand, what is the status of the working groups on violence against police officers set up by your predecessor, Ms.Milquet, following the events of the summer of 2012? The police union has long advocated for the generalization of training in intervention tactics and violence management. Why is it not yet widespread? On the other hand, is the police aware of the presence of these people, of these Dutch neo-Nazi groups in our territory and during the demonstrations? Are these "casseurs" registered by the police and subject to special surveillance? How many administrative arrests were made during the demonstration on 24 May 2016? How many of them concern activists from the far right? Lastly, what measures would be taken to prevent such acts of violence from taking place at future demonstrations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u60	Mr President, Mr Vanden Burre, during the previous parliamentary term, the Ministers of the Interior and Justice agreed with the social partners, the Federal Police and the Standing Committee on Local Police to set up four technical working groups with the theme of the approach to violence against the police. A Memorandum of Understanding (309/1) was concluded on 26 September 2012. However, I would like to make it clear that, in the context of demonstrations, Circular CP4 applies. The latter is the reference framework for the management of public events and/or gatherings. Its key features are communication and negotiation between the various actors involved, with a view to bringing about de-escalation through proactive, preventive measures and measures during the event. In March 2016, I brought together various representatives of the working groups to take stock of the commitments made and the actions already taken. The vast majority of the commitments have been made or are in the process of being finalized, as are the protection of the identity of the members of the police services and the implementation of the internal site containing the information necessary and useful to the members of the police. During their basic training, all police officers are trained in violence control techniques. As soon as they are trained and integrated into their respective units, these same police officers are expected to undergo training consisting of four training sessions of at least four hours a year. Training and training are based on the four pillars of circular GPI 48: ethics and psychosocial attitudes, including communication and management skills in dealing with violence; didactic intervention techniques for police officers to deal with different situations; techniques for controlling violence without firearms; and techniques for controlling violence with firearms. In the area of the negotiated management of the public space, police officers also learn to work in teams divided into sections involving techniques specific to this operational commitment. As regards the generalization of training in intervention techniques and the management of violence, this already exists, but the memorandum of understanding with the social partners, the federal police and the local police provides for more communication attitudes in the training on the control of violence (cf. circular GPI 48). The psychosocial attitude is, however, one of the four pillars of the training theme of this circular, but in concrete terms, the exercises for dealing with violence through negotiation or communication are too few or absent. As far as demonstrations are concerned, we do not communicate the list of people. This list remains confidential. But every person at risk, present at a demonstration, is the subject of special attention by the police services. This list includes both far-left and far-right people. Among those arrested are 24 demonstrators, 22 of whom are for disorder (administrative arrests) and 2 for judicial arrest. As provided for in OOP 41, an important police mechanism is put in place by the police zone to avoid spillovers or to intervene in cases of violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u61	Minister, thank you for this very detailed answer. I could not take note of the theft of all the elements, but as soon as I have the answer, I will consult it in detail. It is interesting to note that follow-up has been reserved for decisions taken during the previous legislature. It is important to be able to ensure the proper conduct of the demonstrations in the future. Of course, if their organisation can be complicated, it is unacceptable that acts of violence occur, at some point, against both demonstrators and police officers. We will remain attentive to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u62	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Degroote's 11926 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Matz's 11927 was postponed. Questions Nos 11933 and 11957 by Mr Vanvelthoven are postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dierick's 11942 question will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u63	Mr President, Minister, in the face of the exceptional threats of recent months, the government has taken many important steps to strengthen security in our country, which, it should be recalled, is still subject to alert level 3. All important gatherings of people – one could also say all gatherings of important people – remain potential targets. I am referring to what we saw yesterday again. The police did not advise the public to travel to Zaventem for the departure of the Red Devils aircraft, highlighting the need for police forces to be available. In this context, the period that begins on Friday, with a first Euro football match, is indeed a major concern, and not only for our French neighbours. I will go back to that in the next question. To the attention of all football fans, especially the Red Devils, local initiatives flourish here and there in Belgium for the public retransmission. It is normal for this type of approach to emerge. We also know how much these initiatives and demonstrations call for high vigilance and mobilization not only of our police forces, but also of the military and peacekeepers. I smile inside, because this morning I was at the police college, and we learned that in Schaerbeek, they were taking a prescription stating that they were asking bistros and other institutions with screens to turn them in. We immediately wondered what to do when the screen was walled... it becomes difficult. Apparently, they want to make a police order about it. I would like to see things a little more broadly and ask you whether any directives are transmitted to the local police services by the OCAM or other stakeholders on this subject, regardless of the 25 May circular of which I know the content. Has the police been notified of other advice, provisions, decisions? What guidelines are provided, independently of the circular, to potential organizers of these public retransmissions? How many public retransmission zones are planned and listed, to date, in our country and by region? What does it represent as gatherings of people? How many federal and local police officers do you plan to deploy to frame these scheduled festivities? Is a specific reserve provided by the federal police to support local police services? Is the autonomy of local polices left intact given the high level of threat in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u64	Mr Pivin, OCAM is, as you know, in charge of the terrorist threat. This level is set at 3 for the general threat in Belgium. Gathering places, such as giant screens for public retransmissions, are considered a potential target of malicious acts. On the basis of the OCAM threat assessment, the Directorate-General of the Crisis Centre reminded all the heads of corps of the measures to be implemented throughout the territory: a reinforced and visible police presence, contact with the organisers and the taking of internal measures and access control for them, special vigilance for the risks of IEDs, and the need for an operational risk analysis at the local level in order to determine the devices to be deployed. My services also transmitted last week the circular to which you refer. I do not have to explain the content, but I want to remind you that it is intended to give recommendations, not obligations. Many mayors asked me what they could do. We wanted to list all the possibilities available to the local authorities but it is impossible to issue a directive for the whole country because the situations where a small village broadcasts a game of chickens on screen and that of a large screen installed on the Anderlecht market for a game where the Red Devils play are very different. Generalizing situations is unfeasible. In addition, police services are requested to take these events into account in the day-to-day management of administrative police information and to collect and exchange relevant information with the police. The purpose of the present circular is in no way to limit such activities and events, but to ensure that they can take place safely and in pleasant conditions. There is no centralized accounting of organized events. We have been informed that about 300 broadcasts are organised for matches between the Belgian national team or other teams or for the different finals. There is not enough precise information on the number of people, which varies from 50 to 12,000, depending on the location. And I realize that if the Red Devils go to the finals, even the figure of 12,000 will be underestimated. The non-exhaustive list of events known by district is: Antwerp, 19; Brabant Wallon, 2; Brussels, 2; Eupen, 10; Hainaut, 33; Halle-Vilvoorde, 3; Leuven, 8; Liège, 65; Limburg, 6; Namur, 18; East Flanders, 33; West Flanders, 14. The last question cannot be answered as there is no centralized accounting for all local events. In addition, the commitment is very variable and in many places the definitive device still needs to be determined. But the normal rules remain in force. It's the responsibility of local police. If problems arise, we can see how the federal police or the HyCaps can solve them through the DirCo. This is to be considered on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u65	Minister, thank you and will not reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u66	Mr President, Minister, I should like to point out from the outset that I have already asked your colleague, Mr Geens, this question, since the prohibitions are either administrative or judicial. So I asked him about the judicial prohibitions. According to some reports, there are nearly 560 people in our country who are registered as hooligans by Belgian football clubs. In addition, according to other reports, nearly 1,200 stadium bans were issued last year. As I said on the occasion of my previous question, considering the need to secure the football Euro in France, there is certainly a need for information exchange and police reinforcement. After my question was put, you provided a number of information concerning the on-site support of our services to the French, especially during the Red Devils matches, with the detachment of six spotters. Minister, do you confirm the figure of 1,200 stadium bans for 2015, in Belgium? How many bans were issued in 2016? How many stadium bans are still in force in our country to date? What were the priorities targeted by the specific collaboration between the French and Belgian authorities in the framework of the organisation of the Euro de football? Have the identities of the banned stadia been communicated to the French authorities? If not, how many identities have been communicated by the Internal FPS Football Cell to the French authorities? Is it true that only stadium bans of more than two years also cover access to foreign football stadiums? Have stage bans as security measures been decided? Is the central file still composed of the previously established prohibitions or are these prohibitions deleted at any time? Are the data in this file communicated to your French counterparts? Is there a convention on this matter? How many law enforcement officers are mobilized to carry out this specific collaboration? Do you confirm that six spotters are detached in France? Can you tell us what their mission is? What is the full staff dedicated to this intelligence work in France.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u67	Mr Pivin, international police cooperation between France and Belgium is intensified within the framework of the Euro 2016. The national football information points of our two countries are in regular contact within this framework. Eleven Belgian police officers will be mobilised to support the French authorities. Eight Belgian police officers, specialising in football issues, have been appointed in order to hold a position within the International Police Cooperation Centre, set up in Lognes, and to monitor the travel of Belgian supporters to other cities throughout the Belgian national team's journey. Two Belgian police officers will be assigned to the company of the national gendarmerie which, in its area of competence, has the base camp of our national team, in order to carry out mixed public security patrols and a Belgian police officer deployed in France for the benefit of Frontex as part of a Eurocup joint operation. In 2015, 1,333 administrative decisions were taken, of which 1,169 issued a stage ban. For the first four months of 2016, 497 administrative decisions were taken, 440 of which declared a stage ban. In view of the absence of a royal decree of execution, there is currently no perimeter ban. During week 23, 861 stadium bans are in progress. These figures vary every week, as new stadium bans (administrative, civil, judicial, security measures) begin, while others end. The French authorities have indeed requested the data in our possession in relation to the stage bans. In accordance with national and international legislation, a series of data have been provided to prevent possible disturbances of public order. My services have therefore communicated to the French authorities a list of persons subject to cumulative stage bans of more than one year. No Belgian stadium ban is valid abroad. Therefore, the stage bans as such do not have legal force in France. It is true that the general conditions of UEFA's ticketing service allow the possibility of refusing access to the event to a prohibited stadium supporter in Belgium. Article 12 deals with unauthorized viewers. Section 12.1 provides that no ticket holder shall be permitted to attend a game, if he is an "excluded person" and if the transfer of the ticket(s) to his or her guest(s) does not comply with the conditions set out in section 8.2 of the General Terms and Conditions. According to point (a) of Article 12.2, "person excluded" means any person who is prohibited by a national or international football federation from subscription to the national team's supporters' club or who is banned from any equivalent fan club by a national or international football federation. According to point (b) of the same article, any person who is prohibited by UEFA, FIFA, any national football federation or affiliated body from attending or attending a football game shall be considered an "excluded person". I come to your fourth question. The stadium bans as a security measure are not taken in a preventive manner, but on the basis of the finding of wrongdoing at football meetings. To answer your fifth question, it is not the file that is transmitted, but police information encoded in the national database on the basis of administrative or judicial sanctions. The civil exclusions were not transmitted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u68	Minister, thank you for your answer. I have noted the figure of 497 decisions for the first quarter of 2016 that you mentioned, but I did not have time to take note of the number of prohibitions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u69	There were 440 prohibitions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u70	I learned earlier that France had today communicated an app on smartphones in order to be able to alert, in case of suspicion of an attack, geolocalised people. Are you considering taking a step in this direction for Belgians travelling to France?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u71	I have not been made aware of the existence of this application. But Friday morning, there will be a meeting of the G11. On this occasion, my colleague, Bernard Cazeneuve, will present all the security measures taken by France. If new initiatives can be implemented at home, I am prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u72	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u73	Minister, in the face of the threats and attacks we have suffered, the government has taken many important steps to strengthen the work of all judicial and police actors. Already in January 2015, our special intervention units demonstrated their professionalism when the terrorist cell in Verviers was dismantled. These units were then reinforced with equipment and intervention equipment and you visited them. After reading an article on the French rapid intervention forces, I wanted to ask you about it. Belgium, of course, is not France, but it seems to me interesting to see that our neighbours have just set up a new decentralised network which should guarantee the intervention of the security forces pending the arrival of specialized units such as RAID or GIGN. Your counterpart, Mr. Cazeneuve, stated that his ambition is that these services should be available within 20 minutes throughout French territory. It is, of course, an impressive goal, although one may think that it is indispensable given the many existing threats and the many targets they are capable of achieving. In our home, we already have the POS (protection, observation, support and arrest), the deconcentrated special units and the local intervention units. Questions remain at their level, given the need to have a full staff and to train them. In what kind of situation are our special intervention units called upon to intervene? Were they mobilized on March 22nd? Is a minimum period for intervention by our special units in the event of an attack on Belgian territory defined? Are collaborations with the French forces envisaged or in place for border areas? What are the services of the local areas preparing for the arrival of the CGSU (Office General Special Units) on the premises? How many special local units are currently operational to prepare for the intervention of the CGSU?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u74	Mr. Pivin, for your information, the CGSU has become the DSU. The special units of the Federal Police are responsible for carrying out specialized interventions in situations of terrorism, hostage-taking, abductions, entrenchments, searches and arrests of suspects. The purpose of the intervention is the safety of the victims and the arrest of the suspects. To this end, special units have specialized services for observation, intervention, arrest and technology. Special units are involved both in crisis situations and in planned operations. The intervention service is located in the Brussels Region. The four deconcentrated units (POSA) are located in the province. The OAP consists of arrest teams, technical support and observation. By discretion and for security reasons, the exact location of the premises is not disclosed. For the intervention, there are deadlines but it will always be as soon as possible. In the case of serious and concrete indications, measures shall be taken to maintain a stanb by effective intervention mechanism at their headquarters. If, at the time of the occurrence, the intervention teams or OAPs are responsible for carrying out other missions or training, they are immediately diverted and engaged in the intervention. In this case, the start time of the intervention depends on the length of time the incident is moved to the location. Where there is no immediate team available, contactable and recallable members of the Brussels intervention mechanism and arrest teams shall be called upon. These staff members have a maximum of one hour to travel to their usual place of work. The start time of the intervention depends on the length of the journey to the site of the incident. The intervention of special units in crisis situations is complementary to the intervention of the local police, which will react by hiring its specialized assistance teams. Ministerial Circular GPI 81 provides guidance on this issue and defines missions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u75	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u76	Mr President, this is a topic that is slowly starting to piss me off. I'll explain why. We know that places and nodes of communication and mobility have long been privileged targets. There is also evidence that collaborations and communication between certain security actors remain problematic. In another parliamentary forum, some time ago, I had been able to question the Brussels regional government on the need to allow full access to images of STIB's video protection camera network. It had become apparent during the previous regional legislature that this accessibility did not exist. I know that is still not the case today. It's starting to piss me off, but this anger isn't turned towards you, far from it. I will soon celebrate the sixth anniversary of my first inquiry on the subject. It was June 16, 2010. We are in June 2016 and this access, by the police, to STIB images still does not exist. I find this to be truly scandalous. The tone I use to ask you where we are in this case is similar to the one we would use to say, "Wouldn't you rather push this nonchalance from the regional government or I don't know who?" In any case, six years later, these images are still not available. The Brussels metro stations currently have 3,000 cameras. Could you indicate how many images can be made available in real time by the police? What police services do they have access to these images?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u77	Dear colleague, Article 88 of the Law of 21 April 2016 on various provisions (Interior - Integrated Police) amended Article 9 of the Law of 21 March 2007 regulating the introduction and use of surveillance cameras. From now on, a royal decree must define what is meant by real-time access, free access, free access and networks of public transit companies. It will determine the basic principles of accountability, installation, security, accessibility and mutual exchange of information. The technical and practical arrangements for free access to images, transfer and security will be determined in a memorandum of understanding between the police service and the public transit company concerned. The development of this new draft royal decree by my services is under way. In any event, the principles of free and free real-time access by the federal and local police in the context of their judicial or administrative police mission to camera images installed on the networks of public transit companies are enshrined in the Act of 22 March 2007. This is the legal basis for access to the images currently available to the police. All cameras, except those installed in vehicles, emit real-time images from the police. With regard to the federal police, the railway and metro police have direct access in real time. STIB and the Federal Police, Railways and Metro signed a cooperation protocol for the safety of STIB's underground network on 27 October 2015. According to our information, similar protocols are concluded between STIB and each police area concerned by the STIB network. The royal decree will soon be finalized and we will be able to use it shortly. I fully understand your frustration.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u78	Minister, thank you. I see things are moving forward, but we have to force them to. It doesn't seem to be happening on its own. I'll keep an eye on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u79	Minister, I am not going to read all the developments in this matter. You know them. I come to the questions immediately. Minister, what are the figures of the Federal Police for 2015 regarding arms trafficking and incidents related to theft of arms and explosives, armed robbery and arms trafficking? How many police officers is the "Arms" section of the Federal Police currently composed? How many did it count in 2014? What investments in technical tools and information technology have been decided and allocated to this section "Arms" since 2014? Finally, and most importantly, is arms trafficking still a priority of the new National Security Plan? I had seen the ten main points and I did not see the arms trade as it was. Is this still a priority even if it is not worded as it is? Or would that mean that we should no longer step up the work to combat arms trafficking in Belgium, which would surprise me?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u80	Mr Pivin, the General National Data Bank is a police database where the facts are recorded on the basis of minutes resulting from the tasks of the judicial and administrative police. The table, which my staff informs you, shows the number of events recorded in this database by the police in the areas of armed robbery, theft of arms and explosives, trade and production of firearms, trade and production of non-fire weapons. You have the figures for the period 2012-2014 and the first three quarters of 2015 at national level. As of June 1, the DJSOC Arms is composed of 6 police officers and 1 strategic analyst. From January 1 to August 31, 2014, DJSOC Arms had 8 police officers. As of December 2014, they were six policemen. Two people left voluntarily on mobility. The DJSOC Arms receives the same means as those allocated to central services. In the 2016-2019 National Security Plan, there is no longer any mention of priorities. Arms trafficking is included under the cluster "Organised Crime against Illegal Goods and Trafficking in Goods", which should function as a full programme at the central service level. We know from experience that arms trafficking is never an isolated criminal aspect, that it is always the case of criminal gangs, which is why it is included in this cluster in the National Security Plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u81	Mr Minister, I have read a remark that seemed sensible about the price of illegal weapons: the more one can identify, the higher the price and the more difficult it will be to obtain them. As a result, emphasis should be placed on ballistic analysis. The more we can refine this analysis, the more we can identify a weapon. Do you agree with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u82	Yes, absolutely.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u83	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Cassart-Mailleux's 12031 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Matz's 12038 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr de Lamotte's 12043 was postponed. Both questions by Mrs Gabriels, Nos 12046 and 12048 were postponed. Both Mr Demon's questions, Nos 12054 and 12124, were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Degroote's 12147 was withdrawn. Mr Friart is not here. I ask his question No. 12149 out. Mr Top was due to come. In the meantime, he has three questions to ask, namely Questions Nos 11838, 11877 and 12159. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Uyttersprot's 12176 was converted into a written question. Questions Nos 12177 and 12178 by Mrs Matz are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u84	Minister, for a number of years now, the Chiefs of Staff and the police recruitment services have been calling for an increased appreciation and awareness of the 7th technical year of qualification in the fields of prevention and security. This is certainly the case in the Brussels Region, given the extremely high failure rate of police candidates wishing to join the Brussels police services. Mr Minister, is there any collaboration between the Internal SPF and the Wallonia-Brussels Federation to raise awareness of this seventh year of qualification in the fields of prevention and safety? Is collaboration with police schools effective? Is there awareness-raising by the police themselves as part of the training modules? How many serving police officers have already completed this academic year qualifying for the prevention and safety professions? Do you have an assessment of the percentage of failures and successes among agent and inspector candidates?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u85	Mr Pivin, there are collaborations between the Internal SPF and the French Community. These are part of the cooperation protocols which have been signed between the ministers responsible: on the one hand, the Minister of the Interior at federal level and on the other hand, the ministers responsible for compulsory education respectively for the Flemish Community and for the French Community. This protocol, however, is limited to the process of accreditation by the Internal FPS of trainings in 7th qualification techniques for security occupations providing access to professions such as guarding officers or peacekeepers. The Communities shall retain the exclusive competence of the practical and pedagogical organisation of such training. In Grade 7, there is effective collaboration between this sector and police schools. This collaboration takes place through various meetings. During open houses, test simulations, meetings and immersions, police schools receive managers, coordinators, lecturers and students from this sector. Some trainers and lecturers give courses in schools, which creates a reciprocal interface. Days of practical exercises are also implemented and trainers participate in some schools on the final evaluation board for oral examinations. A police presentation takes place in Grade 7. In addition, an explanation that helps in cognitive and sports selection tests is given. The links are for the moment punctual and not systematic. In the future, I would like to include police training in regular education which falls within the competence of the French Community and the Flemish Community. This alignment will make it possible to have structural links between police education and, for example, that of the 7th year of security. Some trainers and lecturers in police schools also teach in the 7th year. Within the time frame for oral questions, I cannot answer your last question. I propose that this question be introduced as a written parliamentary question. Two weeks ago, I visited a seventh year at an open house in Liège. And then I learned that the number of candidates who pass the police entry examination is three times higher for those who followed this seventh year than for those who did not.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u86	A little like those following a special year in mathematics before entering polytechnics. I don't have a reply, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u87	Mr Minister, without wishing to enter into the controversy concerning the saga of the setting up of the pedestrian of the City of Brussels, and considering that the competence in the field of emergency services and response is mainly managed in this territory by the Brussels SIAMU, it seems necessary to hear from you, however, some remarks which have been made about the possibilities of access to this perimeter by the rescue services and by the security services. Could you then indicate whether your services have been informed of accessibility difficulties as reported by the media? Have the police services experienced problems of delay in accessing this perimeter or of intervening on regional territory in the vicinity of this no-vehicle zone? Has there been or is there any consultation with the authorities of the City of Brussels on the potential problems of emergency or security intervention by the Federal Police?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u88	Mr Pivin, the Brussels-CAPITAL-Ixelles police zone has not experienced problems of delay in accessing the pedestrian zone and its surroundings. Nor are we aware of any accessibility difficulties for the federal police. With regard to the SIAMU, we have not been aware of any problems related to the pedestrian. A consultation has been organised in a structural way – this is a first. Responses are always communicated and discussed with emergency services. At the weekly consultation meetings between April and June 2015, the services of the SIAMU were systematically invited and were almost always present. After that period, meetings were held on request. The final layout was also discussed with them. They produced a report under the town planning permit, the recommendations of which were followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u89	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u90	Minister, the fight against urban gangs is one of the priorities of the police services in the major cities of our country. In the Brussels Region, in recent years, police areas have made this a major challenge for their mission. According to some testimonies from both the police and the judiciary, the trend of this phenomenon would be positive. It is very good news that the number of tapes would be decreasing. It's a day-to-day attention that needs to be paid. Minister, what collaboration is in place between police and prosecutors in the fight against urban gangs? How many urban bands are currently recorded in the Brussels-Capital Region and other major cities in our country? How many acts committed by these urban gangs were recorded by the police in 2014 and 2015 in the Brussels Region and in the major Belgian cities? What services are specifically dedicated to this phenomenon of urban gangs within the federal police and local areas? Can you tell me what the number of people dedicated to the fight against urban gangs in the federal police force is? Can you tell me if this workforce changed in 2015? Is it true that a secondment of these personnel would have been decided with a view to strengthening the fight against the terrorist threat?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u91	There is a consultation platform under the direction of two specialized magistrates of the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office. All the police areas concerned are present, as well as the two federal police officers of the SICAD Brussels responsible for monitoring the problem at the borough level. In Brussels-Cities, 12 urban bands are identified as the most important. For the whole borough, in January 2016, the monitoring unit at SICAD Brussels mentioned 23 bands. No figures are available for other major cities. There is no accurate census of the acts committed by urban gangs or their members. Several police areas have a specific service dedicated to this phenomenon, including Polbru, Brunehaut, Midi and Ouest. At the Federal Police, at SICAD Brussels, two people are in charge of monitoring urban gangs. They feed a data bank with the main suspects and the facts they commit in order to inform the prosecutor's office at the monthly platforms where any specific measures are decided. Punctually, in addition to two police inspectors at SICAD Brussels, the strategic analysis unit of the DirCo Brussels can be asked for an analysis. Occasionally, if members of an urban band are involved in a case falling within the jurisdiction of the PJF, the PJF will devote investigative capacity to it. There have been no changes with respect to Polbru or the Federal Police. So the answer is negative. At the level of collaboration between the federal police and the areas, everything happens at the monthly platform.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u92	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u93	Minister, you have already said this on several occasions: the federal government is taking strong police and justice measures to combat terrorist threats. The efforts are obviously unprecedented at the financial level in particular. We all know it here. You have also announced a strengthening of the R plan to combat the development of radicalism, a phenomenon that has been largely underestimated by some. We'll go back to that on the commission of inquiry. It is therefore very positive that I have been able to observe that a number of initiatives to combat radicalisation are developing. For example, I read that your services had recently met with the heads of the association Prevention Réseaux Internet (PRI), which aims to combat the radicalisation of young people. Can you then tell me whether there is already a collaboration between your services, the Inland FPS and this PRI association, or whether there will be one that will be structured? Does this imply special support at the logistical or financial level? Are the proposed programmes coordinated with local prevention services? Are these initiatives coordinated with the police and R-plan? Are other such initiatives specifically and exclusively provided for by federal public services? Finally, in what way and according to what planning do you intend to harmonise all the measures in this field in order to ensure full coherence and effectiveness in the fight against radicalism?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u94	Mr. Pivin, the representatives of the PRI were received at my office. They had the opportunity to present their project. Such initiatives are commendable and I am pleased that they come from civil society. I asked the association to draw up a clear and concrete plan for the structure, purpose and organisation of these activities. These clarifications have recently been received, which are under consideration. No decision has yet been taken on possible collaboration. As noted, the project is under consideration and will be the subject of further consultation with all partners, including those you have just mentioned. The federal authorities have allocated EUR 1.4 million for the granting of a single financial incentive in the fight against radicalisation. This amount was distributed among 15 cities and municipalities through two royal decrees. Since situations differ widely at the local level, cities and municipalities set priorities independently. Several of them have decided to invest some of these resources in strategic online communication. I am aware that strategic communication is an important challenge for local authorities and that support is needed. Recently, DG Security and Prevention organised an interactive workshop, which offered its local partners with a financial incentive an introduction to the possibilities of strategic communication in the fight against violent extremism. In addition, I recognize that the phenomenon is extremely complex and that tailor-made support is more necessary than ever. To this end, I have set up a mobile team of experts to provide this support and to accompany, at their request, the local authorities in their fight against violent extremism. The support and support of strategic communication projects can, of course, also be part of their tasks. The Communication Working Party was set up as part of the new Radicalisation Action Plan. Within this group are the various services represented in Plan R, including the regional partners, the pilot service and DG Safety and Prevention of the Inland FPS. Within the group, the emphasis is on continuous collaboration between the various services represented in the group and on the exchange of know-how. In addition to this communication working group, there are two other structures of consultation aimed at ensuring the coherence and effectiveness of the initiatives taken by different levels of authority. These are, on the one hand, meetings held every four months between the fifteen cities and municipalities with a financial incentive to exchange good practices. On the other hand, a coordination meeting is held at regular intervals with the various regional partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u95	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u96	Debates of the European Parliament 12204 by Mr Janssens was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u97	Minister, many police areas are making laptops, smartphones, internet subscriptions, etc. available to their employees, of course for professional use, but also for private use. This private use is referred to as an advantage of all kinds in the area of corporate taxation and social security. Article 36 (1) of the Income Tax Code 1992 provides that these benefits of all kinds apply to the actual value of the transferee. According to KB, these can be estimated. In a note to the police zones, the Permanent Commission of the Local Police writes that this legal estimate is currently regulated for PCs, Internet connections and subscriptions, but not for tablets, mobile phones and smartphones. The latter should therefore be estimated on the basis of the actual value. The share of the actual value of the use for private purposes is questionable. Nor is there any guarantee that this will be applied equally throughout the country by the various inspection bodies. Do you agree, Minister, that these uncertainties, which also cause a great deal of administrative inconvenience, should be removed as soon as possible? What measures do you intend to take to clarify this issue and ensure uniform application?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u98	Mr Top, making ICT devices available to employees indeed has consequences in terms of taxation and social security contributions for employees, if they are allowed to use them privately in addition to professional use. To determine the benefit of all kinds on the basis of actual value implies an additional administrative workload which should be kept to a strict minimum. In order to limit the administration of this valuation and the deduction of taxation and social security, the administrative and technical secretariat of the integrated police, the SAT Home Office, was instructed to try to conclude a tax ruling for the entire integrated police with the FPS Finance, the Prior Decisions Department in tax matters. To this end, a number of meetings have already been organised. DIBISS, the Department for Special Social Security Systems under which local authorities are located, has also been consulted. Since we have one arrangement for the whole integrated police force and since the application must be made by the legal entities themselves, the police zones were asked to instruct my office to do so. This bundling is now under way. So in order to get one settlement, I have to get the go-ahead from 189 zones. Contacts have been established with both the FPS Finance on the tax regime and DIBISS on the social security scheme with local authorities. The aim is to create a single system. The bundling is now underway, so I think it will be fairly quick.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u99	Mr Minister, I am pleased that you confirm that there is a problem with the issue of debt, which creates an additional administrative burden and that it should be kept to a minimum. I am also pleased that the services of the Interior have been instructed to comply with this and to agree on the ruling with both finance and social security. My main concern is, of course, timing. You are responsible not only for this, but also for 181 local areas. You must insist that it be arranged as quickly as possible, for the zones, for the inspectors and for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u100	Minister, the drones of the army were withdrawn from the port of Antwerp after the threat level for the port had been reduced in silence. This was confirmed by the Brass skate ships Luc Sevenhans, who said the following: "The 35 men of the 80th narrow section from Flawinnes who had been present at Brasschaat airport with three unmanned B-Hunters since the beginning of April, are gone. The Cabinet of Defence Minister Steven Vandeput confirms the cessation of flights at the request of the police." The use of drones had been made on the basis of the assessments made by the police forces and the OCAD. Minister, what is meant by the statement that the drones were withdrawn at the request of the police? Are there any consequences of the decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u101	Mr. Top, that communication isn't exactly battery. The OCAD has made a risk analysis and said that we can return to level 2 before the port. The unmanned observation is then no longer required. After all, she was connected to level 3, because that way we could reduce the number of soldiers needed to guard the harbour. The use of military personnel is done at level 3. When one falls back to level 2, the military must leave and therefore also the drones.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u102	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u103	Yeah, because this is connected to level three and they were military drones. The police only have one drone left. The failure to deploy unmanned aircraft does not alter the other security measures in force in the port. The port of Antwerp is now under threat level 2, which means that reinforced patrols are being carried out by the shipping police and customs, with increased vigilance. In addition, there is a question of how far the port site extends, such as the presence of military forces, which is still in force around the nuclear power plant.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u104	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. By bringing the threat level to level 2, the military were no longer allowed to be deployed. However, I believe I understood that there was an efficiency gain at threat level 3 because drones could then be deployed in the port. You just said that the police only have one drone. During threat level 3, more could be deployed thanks to the military. Perhaps now it is worth considering how to secure the port in the future by using drones, but by the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u105	The use of resources is linked to the level of threat. Today, the shipping police are working at level 2. If we go to Level 3, we will be able to use additional resources. The intention is indeed to increase the number of drones in the police force, because we have good experience of this. However, we are not going to do overkill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u106	No, that is not the intention, but since it was indicated that there was efficiency gains, the number of drones can still be increased.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u107	We no longer need so many resources because the threat level has fallen. However, the use of drones will still be very important in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u108	Okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u109	Mr President, Minister, a punctuality action was carried out by the federal police at Charleroi Airport on 1 June. The passengers were closely monitored. The airport operator therefore recommended that three hours in advance be present at the airport. With the action, the staff shortage was indicted. According to the trade unions, the workload is constantly increasing. For example, 40% more Schengen passengers need to be checked and 49% more administratively, while the workforce has not been adjusted since 2012. Trade unions are asking 100 additional inspectors, and another 100 by 2020. How will the workforce evolve in the coming years? This year Charleroi was expected to receive six million passengers, but estimates are already up to nine million passengers by 2020. How can the staff shortage be adjusted in the short term? Has there been any consultation with the trade unions involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u110	Mr President, Mr Top, the current establishment plan provides for 96 FTEs for the aircraft police unit at Gosselies airport. In the context of the negotiations on security following the attacks of 22 March last, an increase of 200 FTEs was granted to the aviation police. In consultation with the syndicated organisations, the aviation police in Gosselies provided a reinforcement of 54 FTEs, namely 50 inspectors and four chief inspectors, including three explosives dog escorts. Previously, funds were allocated to seven additional FTEs, based on the deficit on organisational table 4, under the additional budget of EUR 400 million. The aim is to achieve this strengthening partly through mobility and partly through recruitment. It is very difficult to find a structural solution to this capacity problem in the very short term. Working with temporary departments of staff is not evident because these staff cannot be trained as fully-fledged border officers. Support will soon be provided from the Bierset Air Force. At present, 15 Inspectors have also been opened up to mobility. According to the latest intel, there would be about 70 candidates. These could be recruited fairly quickly, through mobility, within the envelope for 200 FTEs mentioned. As already mentioned, the distribution of the 200 additional FTEs was established in consultation with the syndicated organisations. As regards the whole aviation police, meetings and negotiations were held on 1 and 18 April and on 11 May. The problem of Gosselies was specifically discussed with the syndicates on 27 May, on the Local Consultation Committee for the Province of Hainaut.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u111	Thank you for this additional information, Minister. My main concern is that you yourself have indicated that it is not always easy to transfer people via mobility in the short term. You said they're working on it. That was my question. The demand for the future remains. As the number of passengers will increase by 2020, I suspect that the numbers will still have to be increased.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u112	Mr Top, that's obvious. This has always been left behind in the past. However, I would not make a universal commitment to the expansion of staff, but also to technology. We must deal with either technology or staff, or a combination of the two, in order to increase the number of passengers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u113	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u114	All the questions that could have been asked have been asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u115	And answer me!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u116	And in doing so, we have only slightly exceeded the foreseen time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u117	Very good.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-08-54-commissie-ic441x.u118	Thanks.
