ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u1	Question No 7265 by Mrs Muylle, questions Nos 7343, 8356 and 8794 by Mrs Fonck and question No 9142 by Mrs Becq are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u2	Madam President, Minister, the annual report of the Pension Office has recently been presented in this committee, although it has been somewhat less recent in the meantime. One of the elements addressed in that report is coordination between Belgian and foreign pension services. The pension calculation will often and in a growing number of cases depend on correct and rapid information from one or more foreign pension services. The decision on the granting and/or refusal of early retirement pensions is sometimes even entirely dependent on data from abroad. An initiative by the European Commission to launch a new IT system, the Electronic Exchange of Social Security Information, EESSI, could facilitate this. At least that's the point. However, the launch on 1 May 2014 was not achieved. This transparency therefore remains a problem, as the ombudsmen have identified. That's why I have the following questions. Do you have any additional information? I can even hope that my data on the introduction of the EESSI are now obsolete. If the problems persist, what initiatives will you take for quick commissioning?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u3	Minister, my question is with my predecessor as it concerns the Electronic Exchange of Social Security Information program. In fact, it is a European pension programme which aims to enable social security services to provide the best and most accurate information possible. Minister, can you tell me where our country is? Mr. De Roover reported that the delay was registered and that it was not implemented in 2014. Since then, have there been any exchanges of information on the calculation of pensions? Indeed, the ability of our fellow citizens to have a single contact is a very important asset for the calculation of their pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u4	Madam President, the deadline for the Electronic Exchange of Social Security Information has been postponed several times since its launch at European level. At the moment, there is talk of an introduction by 2018-2019. However, it is very uncertain whether that date can be achieved effectively. After all, all European partners must be able and willing to make available the necessary time and resources for this project. As the initially defined scope proved to be too extensive, the project was now limited to the branches of pensions and unemployment. Since planning has often been delayed and the implementation of this programme is uncertain, the National Pension Office has taken the initiative to establish bilateral contacts with pension institutions in our neighbouring countries. Thanks to these bilateral contacts, the ONP is currently exchanging data on pension amounts paid with the Netherlands and Germany. This makes it possible, in particular, to abolish the life certificate for certain groups of pensioners. In addition, discussions are under way with Germany and Luxembourg for the exchange of career data. In view of the importance of electronic data exchange for the different national pension institutions, I will indeed urge at European level that the EESSI project be rapidly completed. I would also ask the RVP, pending the completion of the EESSI project, to continue bilateral initiatives to speed up, where possible, progress on administrative simplification.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u5	Mr Minister, it appears in this matter that the word deadline is given a different meaning than the meaning that is normally given to it, because here the emphasis seems to be on the word dead. I would therefore urge you, as you indicated in your reply, to increase bilateral efforts, because if we have to wait until EESSI is fully operational... It is not just a few neighbouring countries that need to exchange information. As I pointed out in my question, this problem is getting worse. The number of people from whom we need to collect international data to determine correct pension calculation and/or pension allocation will only increase. While we are waiting for a European response, I would therefore ask you to allow the bilateral efforts to take place in full force.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u6	Mr Minister, I have nothing to add, except that I intend that you will continue to raise awareness among your partners in neighbouring countries, which I think is very important. Having said that, it is also very important to simplify the system that has been set up and that today shows all its limitations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u7	Minister, the discussion on the inclusion of the military service in the calculation of the pension has been going on for some time now. In 2013 we also argued here to review this situation. For civil servants, the year of military service automatically counts for their pension, but for many employees and self-employed people this is not the case. People who haven't had a job before their year of military service or went back to military service, cannot claim military service for their pension this year. However, many men were already working as an independent helper in a family business before their military service, which makes them considered non-working, and are thus punished in this way. When a person is paid for services provided, as is the case with soldiers, who receive pay for their military service, we think this should count for their pension. Hence my questions to you, Minister. Will there be any change in the calculation of the year of military service for the pension in the future? What about those who were active as self-employed helpers before their year of military service? Do you already have concrete plans to reform this? When can we receive these?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u8	Minister, the military service used to be a compulsory absence of the labour market. We therefore feel it is fair to honour this period in the calculation of pensions. However, the extent to which the military service is included in the pension calculation varies according to the pension system. The scheme for civil servants is more favourable than for employed or self-employed persons. I also questioned your predecessors, Minister Daerden and Minister De Croo. On 6 March 2013, Minister De Croo said that he wanted to move forward in the field of harmonisation of systems, without intending to extend the equivalence for military service in difficult budgetary times. The government is always saying that we are on the right track in terms of budgetary times, so perhaps there is room now for another policy skewer from your point of view. I wonder whether your position will differ from that of your predecessors and whether you will do better. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Can you explain the differences in current legislation? To what extent do you think that the military should be included in the pension calculation, independently of the system? Are you prepared to take measures to eliminate this inequality? What recommendations has the Pension Commission made? A number question, Defense has no idea who is retired and who isn't. The former Minister of Defence only gave a rough estimate in March 2013 and spoke of more than 1 million former serving conscripts. What figures do your services have? How many people who have fulfilled their military service have not yet retired?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u9	Mr De Vriendt, according to the legislation in force, the pension is calculated in function of the career, which includes periods of professional activity and periods of inactivity equivalent to periods of professional activity. The conditions for equalization of compulsory service, abolished in 1993, do indeed differ from one pension system to another. As far as the public sector is concerned, compulsory service is always taken into account for the calculation of both career and pension amounts. Both in the worker system and in the self-employed system, this equivalence is subject to stricter conditions, but these differences in function of the scheme in question. For example, in the worker's system, equivalence may be granted if the person concerned has had the status of a worker in the three years following the end of the service and has continued to work in that capacity for at least one year. Under the self-employed scheme, the beneficiary is required to have the status of self-employed worker during the 180 days following the end of compulsory service. There is no minimum period within which this status should be maintained. The government agreement stipulates that the government will harmonise the differences between the different pension systems. I can assure you that the planned reforms do not provide for the abolition of this equivalence, which covers the period of military service. We will come up with a proposal aimed at implementing this harmonization between the systems, in particular as regards equal treatment for compulsory service. It is the FPS Defense that can give the figures on the number of employees who have fulfilled their military service. At present, the exchange of information, which allows the link to be established between pensioners and those who have fulfilled their compulsory service, is not automated. Only the Central Service of the FPS Defence Pedigree has all the information on the terms of service and provides this case on a case-by-case basis to the various pension institutions when applying for a pension by the citizen. Nevertheless, in the context of the development of the pension engine, we wish to have a more and more accurate and complete view of the professional history of the workers, including the period of compulsory service, in order to be able to take account, where appropriate, of such periods in the estimates provided in the field of pensions. We are therefore currently working on an optimization of this information exchange with the FOD Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u10	I understand, Minister, that you are seeking harmonization, especially with regard to the equalization of compulsory service. I would urge you not to leave this behind. Today, people are still faced with this discrimination, both civil servants, employees and self-employed people. In practice, this means that for many people they have to work longer, while for others there is a level playing field. I didn't hear what time you wanted to eliminate that discrimination. I will ask you again about this within a few months because I think it is important not to let this go.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u11	Minister, I am positively surprised. I've been working on this file for years. It unites two passions of mine, defence and pensions. Your predecessors have always rejected that question. You come with a clear commitment. Within this period of government, under your ministerial authority, you will achieve harmonisation. It is important that this should not be reduced to harmonisation. You have said that you want to maintain the principle of equality of service. That seems like a good base to leave. It is indeed a discrimination. We must strive as far as possible for harmonisation between the three systems. Army service is also a service to the nation. It is therefore logical that this is considered to be one of the activities which still count for the calculation of the pension amount and the calculation of the career time for retirement. I look forward with great enthusiasm to the continuation of this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u12	Mr Minister, you have echoed in the press a saving of €184 million for the municipalities as a result of the reduction in social contributions on the pensions of their employees decided under the tax shift. This is from October, but my question has only arrived in committee today. As a local leader, this news can only please me. However, I wanted to ask you for a little clarification. Does this reduction in contributions concern all local authorities, i.e., in addition to municipalities, police areas, autonomous communal authorities, rescue zones and CPAS? What will happen to personnel seconded by municipalities or CPAS to other bodies such as communal authorities, relief zones and police areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u13	The reduction of the basic contribution rate by 3.5% in 2016 and 2017 and by 3% in 2018 and 2019 concerns the 1,215 local governments. According to the latest figures provided to me by the Office for Special Social Security Plans (ORPSS), this applies to those who were members of the common pension system of the local authorities, i.e. the former Pool 1 before the entry into force of the new pension financing system for appointed officials introduced by the Act of 24 October 2011. This applies to all local governments that were in the former Pool 1 prior to 2011. These are mainly the municipalities, 257 in Wallonia, 287 in Flanders and 3 in Brussels. They are also the CPAS, the intercommunals that were in the former Pool 1 and the autonomous authorities. On the other hand, these are not the police areas that were in the former Pool 5 if my memories are good, neither the provinces, nor the relief areas. Prior to the funding law, the beneficiaries of the former Pool 1 had formed reserves, which are in fact overcontributions over expenditure. These reserves can only be used to reduce the rate of basic pension contributions actually paid by employers in the former Pool 1 compared to the rate of contributions legally fixed. Local governments, who were informed of this decision, could therefore take this rate reduction into account for their 2016 budget as well as for their multi-annual budget. It was the three Unions of Cities and Municipalities that asked to examine the possibility of speeding up the use of the former Pool 1 reserves. The decision was taken in accordance with the opinion of the social partners who felt that they should not currently set a longer term use of the former Pool 1 reserves. According to the Inspector of Finance, the reductions in the base rate greater than those made in the past will have the effect of exhausting the reserves of the former Pool 1 by 2025. The ORPSS fortunately has other reserves which result in particular from transfers of contributions received by the ONP and relating to contractual agents who have been appointed. The subsequent use of the ex-pool 1 reserve fund can only take place after a new study based on the Exsyspen programme, demographic support and actuarial support, has been carried out in collaboration with ORPSS, the Public Sector Pension Service, Sigedis and the Provident Institutions. This study should lead to a long-term forecast of the evolution of the burden of local government pensions which takes into account the pension reforms implemented by the previous government as well as by the current government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u14	Minister, I was asking you this question because some relief zones had called us on the subject. Your answer is very clear. It's only dedicated to those who were part of Pool-1. Thank you for that clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u15	Question No 7408 by Mr. De Roover is transformed into a written question. We turn to the attached issues under agenda item 9. As Mrs Fonck (question No. 7708) was absent, I give the floor to Mrs Becq for her question No. 8434 on early pensions at Proximus.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u16	Madam President, did Mrs. Fonck inform you she can't come? I have a habit of being collegial and waiting. I know that there is no warning from here when a question is being dealt with, and sometimes people have to go to another committee. I also just came from the Justice Commission, where I asked a question. I therefore ask for some understanding of Mrs Fonck's absence, even if she is from the opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u17	For me, there's no problem, Mrs. Becq. Ms. Fonck had turned other questions into written questions. Do you want to wait? Is she planning on coming? Mrs Becq, will you wait? [[Sentiment]] In that case, I will follow the chronological order.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u18	Mr Minister, the Court of Auditors is examining the reduced contribution system which applies to payments made by employers in order to establish a supplementary pension for their workers (second pillar). In order to encourage the establishment of this pillar, a special social security contribution of 8.86 per cent, more favourable than ordinary social contributions, was introduced in 1989. An additional special contribution of 1.5% has been applicable since 2012 for workers for whom all payments exceed the annual threshold of EUR 30 000. Payments are tax deductible under certain conditions. To ensure that these two contributions are properly collected, ONSS uses its data with the supplementary pension bank. However, this bank is not complete, in particular because the tax penalty making the reporting of pension liabilities compulsory is not effective. This policy, which represents a cost to the social security of salaried workers of almost EUR 900 million per year, does not meet its objective of guaranteeing pensions of a sufficient level to a maximum of workers. The reserves are very unevenly distributed among the workers and only a minority of the acquired reserves will give rise to a significant supplement to the statutory pension. In addition, 20% of the cost of this social policy (approximately EUR 170 million), in the form of contribution reductions, is spent exclusively on providing a high pension supplement to a minority of workers (0.5 %). How does the Minister react to these results? Consider reviewing the second pillar process that the PTB has never been very partisan of. We also see aberrations and I would like to have your opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in fact I draw the same lessons as the Court of Auditors in that, unfortunately, not all citizens have yet a second pillar or, if they benefit from it, it is not sufficiently significant. That is why, as I have said on several occasions, and now that the social partners have reached agreement on the guarantee of performance, I am considering the following measures. Together with my colleague Minister for the Independents, Mr Borsus, and as proposed by the Pension Reform Committee 2020-2040, the possibility will be created for self-employed individuals, in addition to the supplementary free pension for self-employed persons already organised by the programme law of 24 December 2002, to take up a supplementary pension under the second pillar whose benefits and limits will be those provided for self-employed entrepreneurs. Following the same logic as for self-employed individuals, the possibility will also be created for employees to set up a supplementary pension under the second pillar freely. This will be funded through payroll deductions made by the employer. Employees will freely determine the amount of these deductions within certain limits. The tax benefits will be the same as those applicable to personal contributions paid in supplementary pensions introduced by employers. In addition, in parallel with the introduction of the mixed pension, the current legal framework for supplementary pensions will be adapted so that public administrations and public enterprises are encouraged to develop a supplementary pension scheme for contract staff in the public service and its development for federal public service staff will begin with a sufficient level of contribution. Finally, in order to consolidate supplementary pensions, the social partners will be asked to determine a percentage of wage increases which may, subject to compliance with the negotiation, be allocated to contribution payments in supplementary pension plans so that, in the future, in each sector, a contribution level of at least 3% of the wage is reached. The obligation to report to the supplementary pension databank is subject to a tax penalty. In the absence of a return, employer contributions are not tax deductible. This obligation is also criminally sanctioned. Its control is carried out by FSMA. The question of its effectiveness falls within the competence of my colleague from Finance, Mr Johan Van Overtveldt. The collection of social security contributions does not, of course, fall within my remit, but falls within the remit of my colleague Maggie De Block. Finally, the measures I plan to take to improve the fairness of the system are those I mentioned at the beginning of my response.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u20	Minister, thank you for your answers to my questions and those of my colleague Gilkinet. Having said that, I remain skeptical. You quote us three extensions of the second pillar. I take note of this, but I wonder if this will solve the problem we are talking about right now. It is aberrant that 0.5% of beneficiaries receive 20% of the envelope. Will the extensions you're going to bring change this system? You didn't tell us anything about that. Are you going to fill the gap that is at the root of what the Court of Auditors is saying? You did not announce that you were going to correct the device in question. I note that you are not considering a correction of this aberration and that you want to increase the second pillar. The PTB has long denounced the temptation to favour it to the detriment of the former, which is that of the legal pension, of which we know how low it is in Belgium compared to other countries. Moreover, such absurdity, denounced by the Court of Auditors, may recur in the other fields of application of the second pillar. That is why I am not reassured by your response, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u21	Minister, a while ago we heard that some of the RVP's offices would be closed between 11 and 15 January and that no telephone calls would be answered in these offices either, out of dissatisfaction with the lack of staff. I understand, moreover, that after the recent pension reforms it is not clear to the staff to answer the questions. I have already received the signal that things are getting better in the meantime and that the questioners are getting an answer, even though this is not yet the case for everyone. Anyway, I fully understand the pressure of the staff. They were promised a stronger front office, while at the same time the back office would be better developed. What was the impact of the action? Were all the offices closed? As a result, did more questions subsequently come in? How many staff have there been since the end of 2015? How many were there five years ago? Has the staff been strengthened or not? Was the action discussed with you? Was there a strike notice? Were there any agreements on the way in which the questioners would be heard during the actions? I do know that in the meantime anyone with an eID card can look at his file and that a piece of information is given in that way, but I think that is often not enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u22	Minister, this is a matter of the same thing, in this case the closure of the doors of the National Pension Board in January. These officials, like so many others, are subject to plans to reduce the staff of this government. I refer to the words of a trade unionist who explains that many colleagues are retiring as the volume of work increases. Yes, even at the National Pension Board, they retire. Just think about the recent changes in pension legislation. The unionist concludes that if the government wants pension calculations to be correct, pensions to be paid on time and service to be properly performed, it will have to invest in the public service concerned. That is an alarm cry from the workers and their union representatives, Minister. How many unreplaced departures will take place in the coming years? Do you have any idea how many officers are required to provide correct and error-free service to the National Pension Board? When one descends, one reaches at some point a fateful threshold, do you understand it? Are you prepared to invest more in this public service in order to respect the quality of the service that citizens are entitled to expect, especially with regard to pensions? I hope, minister, that you understand that citizens are concerned about their pensions and their rights, and that they want a proper service.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u23	The syndicated actions in question were limited to the regional offices of Turnhout and Hasselt. The actions specifically meant that no telephone calls were answered in the relevant offices during the week from 11 to 15 January and no visitors were received. The pension applications and the pension files were dealt with during the action. At the meeting of the Social Affairs Committee on 28 October 2015, I provided Mr Delizée with a table of the evolution of the staff of the RVP during the period 2009-2015. That table shows that the reduction in the number of staff was highest between 2009 and 2014. This reduction was compensated by the automation and digitisation of pension files. Many processes relating to payments, control and revision are now carried out semi-automatically, as quality control remains necessary. By the end of 2015, the RVP had 1 593 full-time employees and PDOS 425, compared with 1 751 full-time employees for the RVP and 459 for the PDOS in 2010. If you wish, Mrs Becq, I can give you the details of the figures relating to the staff of the RVP and PDOS. You will notice that the largest decrease was made under the previous government. The general administrator of the ONP has informed me of the development of this dossier and in particular of the measures taken to maintain the social dialogue and to limit the consequences of these actions on the citizen. In order to guarantee the quality of service to the citizen and the proper functioning of the pension service, I inform you that, in the framework of the negotiations of the 2016-2018 administrative contracts, I have obtained that all the additional appropriations requested by the ONP are granted for various projects whose objective is to optimize the services and the functioning of the organisation. I am thinking, among other things, of the pension engine, the internal calculation programme of ONP Theseos V4, the integration of pension cadastre into ONP applications, the electronic exchange of data with Belgian and foreign institutions and the implementation of various reforms planned in the field of pensions. A total of EUR 17.5 million has thus been set aside for the years 2016 and 2017. In 2018, the ONP will be able to reinvest an additional €2.9 million in current and new projects thanks to the return on investments made. In total, more than €20 million will be spent on modernising the administration, with the sole aim of improving the service provided to the citizen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I note that careful care was taken not to stop the service. Minister, occasionally you give details of the length of service. Perhaps we should also get an evaluation of the treatment periods back office and front office. If the service is good, it can also be said.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u25	Mr. Minister, I don't care when the staff reductions took place. I mean, that's not an argument. Whatever the coalitions, these are deplorable decisions. This movement continues. The figures you have provided show that. I myself was a civil servant and trade unionist in the public service. I therefore know this classic and often misleading argument that automation will compensate for staff reductions. I admit that some tasks can be accomplished through computerization, but it is an exercise that has its limits. It is above all an alibi that is a little easy to justify budget cuts. You tell us that the additional appropriations requested by the ONP have been granted for new automations, I am almost tempted to ask you: how many jobs have been abolished in parallel? It would be wise to objectify staff gains in relation to this phenomenon, as this is a boating argument.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u26	Madam President, let me begin by thanking Mrs Becq for her collegial attitude, since having six committees at the same time is a little complicated. I'm just gonna ask you one question. I had already tabled this one in November, but things have become clearer since then. As a reminder, you and your government have decided, through the law of 10 August 2015, to raise the legal retirement age to 66 years in 2025 and 67 years in 2030. At the end of November 2015, it was stated in the press that the Proximus group, whose state is still the majority shareholder, was considering "prior discharge" of staff over 58 years of age. Is it anecdotal? Not because it represents 7% of the staff. I come back to you on this because, since then, on January 8, Proximus has been granted the right to push employees aged 60 and over to the exit. The federal government itself has given its green light to a voluntary departure plan. This raises the question because the government decides on the one hand to impose a line on everyone, including the people concerned and the employers, and on the other hand, the government agrees not to impose an increase in the pension age only when it suits it. In addition, the condition imposed by your government also raises questions as it is anticipated that the costs of the plan will not be carried over to the government's accounts. Proximus will therefore have to pay them in full, as the costs go through the pre-pension leave system. Do I have to infer from this that the big boxes – in this case there is a big box that depends on the state – can get rid of their older workers, if they are willing to put the price on them while you have kept reminding us that the age at which workers leave the labour market must be delayed? By the way, I draw your attention to the fact that alongside these big boxes there are a whole series of other employers – I am thinking here, in particular, of small and medium-sized enterprises whose reality is different – who will not be able to act in the same way. It must therefore be noted that there is a double standard. Minister, what are the arguments behind your government's decision to support Proximus's request when you decided to raise the retirement age to 66 in 2025 and 67 in 2030?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u27	Mr Minister, the reason for this question is the announcement that the public company Proximus would agree to an early retirement scheme. By the end of 2015, the retirement age for the operating staff of SNCB would also be 55 while there was also a possible temporary pre-pension leave scheme with the police. That too is an exception. Exceptions were also provided for in the case of bpost. If we get this all together, we can see that this is the way things are going with our public companies. The trend is different to encourage longer work and to reduce certain measures for the future. However, a number of exceptions are made or provided for here. Minister, I do not know to what extent you are involved in these arrangements. That's actually part of my question. Occasionally, the impression is that this is a preliminary reduction in the arrangements which may be introduced in the future in the case of the heavy professions. Are you involved in this? Are you being consulted on this in order to make these measures possible? Furthermore, I would have liked to have had an overview of the sectors where these exceptions to the general scheme agreed in the current pension reforms are still in force. You may also give me that in writing. What exactly are these exceptions? This is also an important element in the regular questions about longer working in other companies. A second element is the extent to which these regimes are a preliminaries to the discussions that should come under the heading of heavy professions. Is it due to the fact that the transition periods to new arrangements are too short? Do we sometimes want to make a number of things more gradual than what was agreed in the general arrangements for extending the career, such as the growth jobs that suddenly had to go to 60? Is it always a matter of temporary regimes and therefore some kind of transitional measures? Are those elements that will be put back on the table in the National Pensions Commission? I believe that this also has to do with the discussion on the heavy professions in the National Pensions Commission. How's the timing there? Is there a timing? Is there a time when we should be landing? I don't know if there's a timing for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you must first of all know that the government has not yet taken a decision on this matter, even though some press articles have sometimes said the opposite. But you know, like me, everything can be written. The problem does not concern pensions in the strict sense of the word. It concerns a file on the granting of leave prior to retirement. In other words, it is about end-of-life measures that are being negotiated between the employer, Proximus, and the employees' representatives under the authority of the Minister for Public Enterprises. As for any end-of-life measure in the public sector, those leave intended to make workers available are borne by the employer. This does not automatically mean that the file would not concern the Minister for Pensions. The grant of leave prior to retirement has the effect of allowing the acquisition of pension rights for the whole period covered by leave through the mechanism of equivalences provided that certain conditions are met. However, since the Act of 6 January 2014, the Council of Ministers has been required by a Royal Decree to agree to take into account the leave in the right to the calculation of the pension in the public sector. Without the approval of leave by the government, those measures cannot be counted as periods treated as periods in the pension of the permanent employees of Proximus. These end-of-care measures are in fact statutory. These are not exceptions to the general early pension scheme. Age and career conditions must always be respected in order for a Proximus statutory agent to obtain an early pension, i.e., from 2019 onwards, 63 years and 42 years of career. However, raising the age and career conditions for early retirement does not make sense if we do not similarly raise the age conditions for leaving on standby and pre-retirement leave. The government agreement in Chapter 8 on the civil service provides that "the age and career conditions for early retirement settlement in the public sector, leave, pension, availability and other, will be harmonised with the conditions for individual unemployment with additional enterprise". Together with my colleague in charge of the civil service, I am currently working on measures to implement this passage of the government agreement, taking into account all the arrangements for early departures. In view of the need to review these arrangements in parallel with the changing conditions for early retirement, it is obvious that the results of the discussion in the National Pension Committee on heavy trades will have to be taken into account in the future. The issue of heavy trades is currently under discussion in the National Pension Committee. The commission responsible for the public sector has been entrusted with the preparatory task of determining the objective criteria for defining the heavy functions in this sector. This committee, in which the social partners, representatives of the government, the federal government, community and regional entities are represented, examines the reports communicated to it by the occupational groups. This committee is also about to start hearings of the representatives of the sectors which have asked to be heard. Starting in April, the discussion will continue at the cross-sectoral level to draw up a list of criteria for penitibility by the end of June.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u29	Minister, I take note of the fact that you are telling me that there is no decision made by the government. You suggest that the press can sometimes write anything. If the articles arrived in the press, it's not annoyance and it's not about "we say". They are used to it; they validate and verify their sources. There must still be files that are exchanging between firms or other facts. I still know a little about the song. You say this has nothing to do with pensions. Now I don't really agree with you. Basically, you've already done it in the public sector with the police. Indeed, you have organized a system of pre-pension for police officers, so that they can be placed on leave before the pension. As you did for the police, this kind of decision is on its way to Proximus. I believe that today there is a double standard. Take the example of an SME in the construction sector. You will tell me that the workers of this SME, who sometimes work on the roofs, do not have the same status because they are employed and do not belong to the public sector. Yes! Whatever. These individuals do not have the same right as they are increasingly subject to the RCC limitation mechanism. On the other hand, an SME obviously does not have the shoulders only to provide financial support for this type of pre-pension leave mechanism. It is a double standard, depending on what arranges the state. On the one hand, there are the two files that I have recalled, namely the one of Proximus who is on hold and the one of the police. And, on the other hand, there is this example that I have taken up specifically because it affects people who have a job that I hope everyone recognizes as painful and heavy. Since the government has decided to tighten up on pensions, without working on the qualitative aspect or on the last part of professional career support, I reiterate the importance of looking at this issue in order to be able to make quick decisions. You have talked about heavy, painful jobs, but this is obviously not the only one to have to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u30	Minister, I read in the press that Proximus had been given the green light of the government to negotiate. So the press release didn't talk about making decisions, but it did say that negotiations could take place. The government hasn't decided on this either. The reason for my question is mainly concern. After all, I note that different measures are being taken at different levels. You rightly say that there is a difference between a leave prior to a pension or disponibility. Legally these are indeed different, but he is concerned with a general feeling, a demand for some mitigating measures towards the end of a career, for somewhat slower work at some levels, all of which fall under the same heading. The concern is also that the flexibility that is taken into account in respect of some groups would apply in all sectors. This will also be addressed in the debate on the heavy professions. That is certainly not an obvious debate, and I do not think that this should be discussed in haste. However, I think it is important that the flexibility is taken into account in the overall debate, because it is not always self-evident, both for groups working within the government and for other groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u31	Minister, we are not going to discuss again the whole list of measures that negatively affect pensioners: index jumps, VAT, excises, the fact that they do not charge the tax shift on the PPI if they are not taxable and that, if they are taxable, they do not have indexation of their pension reduction or occupational expenses. We all know that. These pensioners are heavily affected by government measures. You are announcing a social correction in relation to the tax shift. Nevertheless, it seems to me that there is deception about the goods in various respects. Firstly, because it concerns very little money, it affects few people and it is more discriminatory in practice between men and women. Indeed, women are disadvantaged. Only pensioners with a minimum pension will be entitled to it if they have 45 years of career and a number of working days actually worked. They're going to receive a 1% increase in their pension. This concerns few people and it represents little money. This means that a large majority of pensioners will not benefit from this measure. All women who generally have a shorter career, those who have been ill, job seekers, pre-pensioners, victims of work accidents and occupational diseases, all of these people are injured. And women are again discriminated against. It is well known that pensions in Belgium are already among the lowest in Europe, which is particularly true for women. Indeed, 75% of the women who joined the pension in 2014 did not have a full career. In relation to this social correction, if my figures are good, we have only 11.1% of pensioners who would benefit from this 1% and 15.26% of pensioners. We therefore believe that this measure will be discriminatory. How do you justify that this affects so few people and that it constitutes a new discrimination against women?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u32	As I said in plenary last week, the government decided to spend EUR 25 million on raising minimum pensions in addition to the welfare envelope. I would remind you that we have just raised them by 2% and we have increased the holiday price. In addition, all pre-1995 and 2010 pensions were upgraded. Since January, this is also the case for those in the 2011 cohort. I remind you of that to complete your speech, Mr. Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u33	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u34	That 25 million is a surplus. In order to strengthen the links between work and pension, the government proposes to increase minimum pensions for pensioners with a full career. This proposal is in no way discriminatory against women – on the contrary. In the scheme of wage-earners, 69 per cent of those who can benefit from this measure are women and 31 per cent men. So you have to stop telling anything. Maybe it's fun, but I'm not. We are swimming in the midst of misinformation. It's not because someone's on the street that he's right. It's not rational. In reality, where is discrimination? It's in access to the minimum pension. Indeed, our system is such that it takes thirty years of career in the self-employed or salaried scheme. However, a large number of women have not accumulated these minimum 30 years. I smile a little when some trade unions are pinning this discrimination, whereas they are the ones who have demanded this minimum pension. It is the social partners who want this situation. I never asked for it to be so; I bowed to their agreement. It's a height! Once we have access to this pension, curiously, several women go to the end. Of the 76,000 persons concerned in the wage-earning sector, there are 52,000 men and 24,000 women. That is the reality, which is not questionable. These are figures provided by the ONP. It's true that in the self-employed sector it's not like that. Why? Because prior to 2005, assisting spouses had no status and, therefore, did not contribute, had no pension rights. Fortunately, since the Laruelle reform, the social status for assisting spouses has been introduced, which makes it possible to create pension rights. Gradually, they will produce their effects on the accounting of career years. Thus, in total, 60 per cent of men and 40 per cent of women in all sectors are covered by the measure proposed today. You know as well as I do that there are fewer women pensioners than men pensioners; about 100,000 fewer. It's also partly in that proportion. The existing discrimination between men and women in terms of professional careers must be addressed at the source. The pension system cannot solve all the problems of career inequalities on its own. We work with the Minister of Employment and Economy and the Minister of Health because there are health implications to ensure that there is more equality in careers and therefore in pensions. Improving careers for women will also improve pensions. In particular, the government agreement provides for what is called a "modernisation of the family dimension" of our pension system. This is one of the areas assigned to the National Pensions Committee. I have recently asked that work on this problem be activated. One of the provisions included in the government agreement provides for, among other things, what is known as the "splitting of pension rights". This proposal would address the situation of women who have chosen to devote more time to their families for part of their careers. This matter is currently being examined by the Academic Council, therefore by the Vandenbroucke Reform Commission, on which I have asked to work on this subject to come with a report to the National Pensions Committee. I'm also surprised, Mr. Van Hees, when we sometimes protest against pension increases. But anything is possible in politics. Some have protested against the abolition of the pension bonus and today, while I am creating a new social bonus, this one, which will concern minimum pensions, we are against! It's still curious! We're creating some kind of social pension bonus for small pensions. Those who have criticized seem not to accept this new bonus, perhaps because it is spent on minimum pensions and not on larger pensions. Some protesters may have bigger pensions? We therefore claim the social character of this measure but also its fairness in view of the professional career carried out by its beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u35	Minister, you have given a number of figures, sometimes without saying what it was. You talked about 69% and 31%, and I didn't understand what that was about. In the case of minimum pensions, I have 39% for women and 54% for men. So it's quite different from yours.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u36	These are employees.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u37	We're going to introduce a written question because we can't separate things here. If I understand correctly, you're challenging the numbers I'm making.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u38	These are ONP figures and not mine.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u39	Beyond this question of numbers, you tell us that you are not responsible for gender discrimination during your career. That is true, but every restrictive measure in the area of pensions, such as the extension of the retirement age, increases this discrimination.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u40	No, she's cutting it down!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u41	No, since women have a smaller career. You always assume that men and women will have a full career. When you say I'm against an increase, that's not true. I'm saying it's a trick with respect to the derisory amount and the few beneficiaries. You are talking about social correction, so it is in relation to all the attacks that are being carried out against pensioners. I can quote from them: index jumps, VAT, excise duties, non-indexing of pension reductions, failure to benefit from the flat-rate occupational costs of personal tax. All these measures affect people. Your little social correction – you'll tell me it's always good to take – is nothing at all. It is a drop of water in the ocean compared to negative measures for pensioners.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u42	Question No 8724 by Mrs Caprasse on item 13 of our agenda has become moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u43	Madam President, Minister, this question concerns a second attempt at increasing the minimum pension. We have had a debate in plenary, but I still have a number of questions. At the time of the index jump, which was there for clarity, the government promised compensatory measures for the lowest benefits, which is also a fact. In particular, it involved an increase of 1% in value of 127 million euros, on top of the welfare adjustment of 2%. You are now going to increase minimum pensions, but the modalities are very strict and tight. Apparently, it applies to a very small group, i.e. not more than 13% of those involved. I have a question about the terms. Who is eligible for an increase in the minimum pension? Is it true that these are pensioners with a minimum pension and 45 years' career and a minimum number of actual working days in the career? Only they will receive an increase of 1% in their pension. Anyone who fails to do so, anyone who does not have a full career, falls out of the boat. Unfortunately, these are just pensioners with the lowest pensions, because the reason for a low pension is a short career, by definition a career shorter than 45 years. It is also mainly about women, because they have shorter careers than men, which is also an undeniable fact. How can you defend this? In addition, I would like to know from you the expenditure you are planning for 2016 and 2017 in relation to this measure. I would like to receive a detailed overview of the amounts, percentages and expenditure involved in this measure for the public authorities. Is it true that in 2016 a one-off premium will be used, not with a percentage increase but with a premium, and that there will only be a percentage increase in 2017? Of course, this is not undisputed either, there are pros and cons for such action. The increase will then not be taken into account and is not cumulatively percentage if a one-off premium is used. It is not just a much smaller group of pensioners than promised; moreover, the correction is not enough to compensate for the index jump. An increase of 1% and then for a small group is not enough to compensate for the index jump of 2%, whereas the government promised. The index jump was 2% and the compensation was now only 1%, half of the index jump. How do you explain that? How can you defend that? I'd like to go a little bit wider than your jurisdiction as Minister of Pensions. Can you give an overview of the use of the EUR 127 million promised for social corrections at the index jump?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u44	For a response to your remark that women would fall off the boat because of the measure, I refer to my answer to Mr Van Hees' question. Moreover, I repeat that the increase in the minimum pension for a full career is an additional effort in addition to the general increase of 2% in the minimum pensions that took place in September of last year. In 2016, the increase would take the form of a one-off premium. The reason for this is technical in nature. We want to give the National Pensions Office, the RVP, sufficient time to make the necessary IT adjustments so that the measure can be implemented. As from 2017 at the latest, the increase will be part of the monthly pension amount. In this way future increases will be able to take into account the increased amount of the minimum pension. The €127 million envelope foreseen to compensate for the index jump was originally intended for all social benefits. Of this 127 million euros, 50 million euros were allocated to the increase in living wages and the lowest pensions. The proposal to increase minimum pensions for a full career is the implementation of this. Through the €127 million envelope, a reduction in the cost of the lowest wages was introduced to combat the inactivity trap and thus to make working in this way more rewarding.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u45	It escapes me whether you mentioned a budget that you want to spend in 2016 and 2017. What amount will you spend for the increase in minimum pensions in 2016 and what in 2017?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u46	Every year...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u47	Every year? So, in 2016 25 million euros and in 2017 also 25 million euros. Okay. Of course, it remains more detrimental to working with a premium than with a percentage increase. I explained that in my introduction. Why not wait for the necessary computer systems to allocate the percentage? Why now the premium and from 2017 percentage? I don't agree with you, but women do fall off the boat. They have shorter careers than men. According to your condition, an increase in the minimum pension is only granted after 45 years of career. Women are having a harder time getting their hands on that entire career. Women are therefore effectively at the expense of such measures. In reply to Mr Van Hees' question, you say that the condition for obtaining a minimum pension is 30 years' career. That's a threshold. You add an additional threshold, that of 45 years. What's with the extra condition? You will not explain this. I don't understand. You can simply comply with the conditions for obtaining a minimum pension, i.e. 30 years, without delay. Finally, I would like to refer to the welfare adjustment of 2%. It's effective in government policy. But if only a very small group receives an increase in the minimum pension, then most people who receive a minimum pension will have no increase. The welfare adjustment of 2 % is completely wiped out by the index jump of 2 %. A large group of pensioners with a minimum pension will not receive this increase. So what do they get extra from this government? Nothing!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u48	Madam President, allow me to speak in French because the question is complicated. In fact, there are many more men who have access to the minimum pension than women because many women do not reach 30 years of career. Their careers are therefore incomplete. But if we look at the men and women who have access to the minimum pension, we find that many men no longer enter the minimum pension because their career is more complete, longer. For this reason, the percentage of women receiving a minimum pension is higher. It is true that men have a much larger full career than women. It is for this reason that they are no longer in the minimum pension conditions. In fact, they have too many conditions, too many careers. Men with a long career thus benefit from a pension which is no longer minimum. For example, considering only those who have access to the minimum pension with a full career, the number of women is higher than that of men, not because there are a large number of women, but because there are few men who enter the criteria, since their careers are longer. This mechanism needs to be understood. In any case, I was as surprised as you were when I saw the numbers. That is why I have asked that they be confirmed to me on several occasions. Now I understand the system.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u49	Minister, I understand your reasoning. We will look into that, but you cannot deny that your measure will not benefit all pensioners who receive a minimum pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u50	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u51	That's right. I don't understand that and I don't think it's fair. If the government wants to make an effort for all pensioners who have only a minimum pension, so the lowest pension, why impose that very strict condition of 45 years' career? It's already about people with a very low pension. I find it completely incomprehensible. Apart from the distinction between men and women, many people with a minimum pension will have received an extra EUR 0 at the end of this government's journey, as the welfare adjustment is completely wiped out by the index jump. For me, that is completely incomprehensible if you want to pursue a social pension policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u52	Minister, you have already answered a number of questions on this subject in plenary, but I am surprised at what you have said in the press. The increase in maximum pensions would be budget-neutral. Can you explain to me how you intend to achieve this budget neutrality? I have also understood that the measure would apply from 2018. Can you give a budgetary estimate for that? Finally, on the basis of the current distribution and data available to us, how many people will be able to enjoy releasing the ceiling from 2018? I would also like to see a split between men and women.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u53	Mr Minister, this reform, if I have understood it correctly, raises the ceiling for the highest pensions on the one hand and on the other, limits the corresponding periods. If I understand correctly, one finances the other. You'll tell me if I understand. As a result of this limitation of similar periods, persons who are unemployed with additional work, persons on maternity leave, the unemployed, the sick, etc. will not be able to value these periods in the calculation of the pension. It takes 42 years of career for an early pension and 45 years for a full pension. That's the bad news. The good news is that the highest pensions will increase. However, if my figures are correct, they only concern 2% of pensioners. I am not opposed to raising these ceilings, but not to the detriment of those who will be subject to the limitation of similar periods. Can you confirm to me that this reform concerns only 2% of pensioners? Have I understood that this is a closed envelope and that, therefore, what is given to some is withdrawn from others, knowing that it is rather the high pensions that are advantaged and the low pensions that are disadvantaged? Thirdly, can you specify what similar periods are covered and to what extent?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u54	Minister, I am not going to go back to the various considerations that introduce my questions. Here are my four questions. You are announcing a second reform while discussions between the social partners are still under way in the National Pension Conference. Is your will to go beyond the opinion and agreement of the social partners? That would be bumpy. Secondly, with regard to raising maximum pension ceilings, how many could increase the pensions concerned? How do you intend to finance this increase? You are announcing that this reform will be fiscally neutral, so who will pay? The third question: what is the usefulness of this measure since people with medium and/or high pensions have the capacity to form second-pillar pensions, which people who receive low pensions cannot do? Last sub-question: I fear that this part of your reform will be financed by the limitation of similar periods. This would prevent the most disadvantaged from valuing this period in the calculation of the pension. Minister, can you dispel my fears about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u55	Minister, last Thursday you announced new plans for pension reform. You said you shouldn't stay in immobilism. Yet reforms must be well thought out, fair, redistributive, responsive to the budgetary and social challenges of the pension sector. I have noted that you are announcing a budget-neutral reform. Well done. This is an important statement in relation to the future cost of pensions. The budget must be controlled. I also noted the reaction of the social partners, who were surprised at your haste to communicate when the work was still under way. My questions are broadly consistent with those of my colleagues. What is the status of social dialogue on new pension reforms? Do you think that this announcement will facilitate the smooth running of the discussions between the social partners and with the government? Isn't it better to wait for an agreement before communicating? How much do you want to raise the maximum pension? How many people would be affected today and how many will be affected in 5, 10 and 20 years? What will be the cost of this increase for the same periods? It is in a way your role as Minister of Pensions to anticipate the future! How do you intend to finance this operation, since you said it would be budget neutral? In other words, who will be the losers in a reform that will necessarily be done by communicating vessels?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u56	Madam President, several questions have been raised concerning the increase in the maximum pension for workers and, in particular, the increase in the wage ceiling. The measure envisaged is to adapt the rules aimed at the revaluation of the wage ceiling and thus not at its abolition. It is a necessary measure to strengthen the link between the work and the pension amount. The maximum pension of a single employee is only EUR 1 672 net. The Generations Pact Act of 2005 in which I pay attention, especially Mr. Daerden, who participated in it, provides for a 1.25 per cent increase in salary ceilings for the Well-Being envelope. Under the 2013-2014 Well-Being envelope, Prime Minister Di Rupo increased the salary ceiling by 2% at a cost of €36,000 in the first year. The cost is obviously cumulative from year to year. In the last Welfare envelope covering the years 2015-2016, however, the social partners did not propose an increase in the salary ceiling. Under the Di Rupo government, the ceiling was upgraded. Under the Michel government, this year and last year, we didn't. That's the truth. It may seem paradoxical, but that's how it is. What I am proposing is to finally anticipate on the recommendation of the Committee on Pension Reform. The Vandenbroucke Committee makes it clear that wage ceilings must be changed with wage developments. Why? Because if we don't, gradually, we're going to raise the minimum pensions every year and if we don't do anything about the salary ceiling, in eighteen years, I've done the calculations, everyone will have a minimum pension. Is that really the goal we're pursuing? I'm still wondering. As I say, the Committee on Pension Reform is very clear. It is his leitmotiv in the reform of the system. The point pension returns at least 20 times in the text. Pensions must be linked more closely to working days and to work done. It's in that spirit that I'm moving forward. Not by projects tabled on the table; I simply recalled the general policy note discussed here and all of this is exactly there. There's nothing new. This is also reflected in the government agreement. These are already two texts that explain all these elements in detail. I have explained that we are going to work on these axes, which are reflected in the general policy note and in the government agreement. That makes sense. I was not going to propose reforms that were not included in the government agreement. We still have to be logical. Who mentioned the 2%?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u57	It's me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u58	Well, that's not true. Like all the numbers you're quoting. You're a subscriber of misinformation. That's terrible. We could write the lexicon of disinformation by Marco Van Hees. It's amazing to make so many mistakes. Do you know how a pension amount is calculated in our country? For employees, account is taken of each year. For each year, we look at whether we are above or below the wage ceiling. Those who were 45 years old were generally not above the 20-year wage ceiling when they started working. We agree. A primary school child could understand that. That makes sense. But many of them are above the wage ceiling when they reach 35-40 years of age. They are therefore covered by the wage ceiling. The 2 per cent are those who are 45 years old, who are above the ceiling. These, they have a lot of luck in life. Because at the age of 20, having a salary directly above the salary ceiling, so much the better for them, but it is obviously not the majority. That's two percent for them. But this does not mean that only 2% of people are affected by the evolution of the wage ceiling. I don't have the exact figure yet. I'm not going to quote it, because I don't do what you do, I don't say anything. That's the difference between us. You say anything, even if it's not true. I asked the ONP to prepare the exact figures for me, because we have to do a calculation year by year, and not career by career. That's the trap you fell into.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u59	That's why I'm asking you the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u60	You're doing well, but why are you saying that it's 2%? You don't ask a question, you say!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u61	Minister, I'll give you a figure that I'm asking you to confirm.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u62	I do not, of course, confirm that. Many people, at one stage of their careers, cross the salary ceiling. Some do it at the age of 40, others at the age of 50 or 60. It's a very individualized calculation, career by career. It is therefore not obvious to obtain the exact figure. Anyway, if you meet a lot of people over the course of your life, you know more or less if they exceed the salary ceiling. All you have to do is consult the various scales and collective agreements. A skilled worker, for example, usually crossed it from the age of 50. It's no more complicated than that. We must return to a certain reality. I would remind you that this is one of several measures aimed at strengthening the link between work and the amount of the pension. It's about better rewarding work. I assume it without hesitation. This decision was taken in accordance with the government agreement and the recommendations of the Vandenbroucke Pension Reform Committee, as I said. I quote from the latter's report: "A stronger link is needed between actual work benefits and the amount of the pension". That is the opinion of the ten experts who make up this pluralistic committee. I believe that they are right and therefore I am going in the same direction as they are. I continue: "We want all the years before retirement for which contributions have been paid to be taken into account for the calculation of the pension, even when the career unit is exceeded". For someone who starts working at the age of 18 and retires at the age of 65, two years count for butter. I don't think that's normal. We want to continue the work undertaken by the Di Rupo Government with regard to similar periods. I'll surprise you again. But who has made the third period of unemployment count only in relation to a minimum right and not in relation to the last wage received? Who has made pre-pensions before the age of 60 count only as a minimum right and not as a function of the last salary received? The previous government. And I subscribe to it. I was a member of the majority. With Mr. Daerden, we are in favour of this. These texts have therefore been voted on and that is a good thing. So that thought was already very clearly in line with the previous government and we will continue in this direction, with, I hope, Mr Daerden's support. That doesn't mean we're going to take away rights. When I mean, for example, that we want to deal with similar periods of sick leave, incapacity for work, occupational diseases, accidents at work, paternity or maternity leave, I say no. It was clearly stated, moreover, in the government agreement, that we did not touch on it. On the other hand, it is true that the question must be asked, when there are revalorisation budgets, as is the case with those 25 million, whether we should not favour work actually done rather than similar periods of unemployment or pre-pension. And in the latter, should we not make a difference between pre-pensions for restructuring and conventional ones? These questions are legitimate. We have to ask each other. I don't know who's writing to you, but I'm being written with numerical examples that I have checked, according to which people who have worked 45 years, all their life, in work, without a similar period, sometimes have less pension than people who have worked 20 years. Is that right? I'm not convinced of that. I'm not talking about periods of illness and accidents at work. But, overall, it is a reality today that must be taken into account if we are to be fair in this matter. The administration is finalizing the budget estimates for these proposals contained in the government agreement and in my policy statement. There are measures that cost a little and we will check the budgetary impact of all the measures and we will discuss them at the government level. If you take the habit, as the Di Rupo government had done, of including in the Well-Being envelope the raising of the salary ceiling according to the evolution of wages, you do not create extra budgets. We simply take the Well-being envelope to grant an evolution of the salary ceiling for people who currently have 1,670 euros per month and whom you consider to be richards. The reforms in question will of course be subject to social consultation – and this is good news – but not within the NPC. The LWOP can't do anything! If you want to make sure that the LWOP does nothing, put in a hundred reforms! I want the CNP to work today on heavy jobs, on partial pension, on the family dimension, on progress in the point system. It's a lot of work already. Where will the consultation take place for proposals to adapt ceilings? We don't need great digressions. First of all, the academic council of the CNP has already expressed its opinion, and it is in favour. Social consultation will take place within the ONP Management Committee, of course, the Management Committee for the Social Status of Self-Employed Workers and within the relevant bargaining committees for the public sector. The number of persons affected by the increase in the ceiling has already been communicated to the National Pension Office. I await their answer, which will be transmitted to me as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u63	Madam President, Minister, you have spoken for a very long time, but you have actually said nothing. Congratulations. Unbelievable! I asked three questions and got no answer. That's a shame. You said one thing about upgrading the wage ceiling and the periods treated as such, namely that you will do the same as the Di Rupo government. Where are these major reforms? What is the novelty of the Michel Government and Minister Bacquelaine on this issue? I do not see them, but I do still see last week's headlines, 'Grande réforme', and it turns out that it is actually a matter of what the Di Rupo government has done in recent years. I believe that this measure was proposed far greater than what it will be in the facts. The main reason for this is no unity within your government, no agreement with your coalition partners. I fear that you have spoken for your turn and that there is a push back here from Minister Bacquelaine.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u64	Madam President, Minister, I wanted to know whether it was a closed envelope and whether we were going to take what we were giving on the other side. I do not think I have received an answer to that question. You've talked a lot about the 2%. What I said was correct, that only 2% of pensioners have a maximum pension. In any case, I take note of the details you have given concerning these famous 2%. I would like to point out here that the PTB is not against raising the ceiling. We are simply concerned because we wonder how it can be financed. If you finance it with a millionaire tax, we'll support you, minister. But if you finance it by reducing the pensions of those whose pensions are already low, be sure that you will not be supported, regardless of what the previous governments have done. You said that people complained because, although they had worked for 45 years, their pensions were less important than those of some who had worked for 20 years. Perhaps this is about Members and ministers who have a full career after 20 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u65	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u66	More seriously, you are raising a problem that is real, but that stems from your policy and that of your predecessors. Pensions are generally so low in Belgium that poverty can be organized. And when you're poor, you point out what's going on in the neighbor and you point to the fact that such a person has worked less to earn a little bit more and is thus a little less in misery. In any case, the problem is the very low level of pensions in the first pillar. That is the reality. And if you continue on the path in which your predecessors have embarked, things are not going to work out. On the contrary! Indeed, many people do not choose to be in pre-board. Their dismissal is the result of company plans with employers who are too greedy for profits. That's the reality. You seem to say that it is the fault of people if they find themselves in a system where there are similar periods. It is a mistake to be part of this movement and to continue to tackle similar periods.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u67	Minister, you have the art of looking elsewhere, whether in the previous government or in the expert report, which is of interest to you. I already told you. It's an analysis by apartments and well-searched phrases. Yet you know as well as I do that the theme of pensions must be analysed in its entirety. It cannot be analyzed in small sentences. That's the game. Having said that, as one of my colleagues said a moment ago, I did not get an answer to the question of how you are going to rebalance this reform, or I did not perceive it. That's one of the things you mentioned in your announcement. It is only the application of the government statement and an opportunity to bounce back in the press and pass on RTL. I still haven't understood how you're going to balance it budgetaryly. I'm still hungry about it. I hear you're not going to touch the unintentional assimilated periods. Recognize that those who are truly voluntary are rare. I don't know where you put unemployment. Do you place him in a similar period of voluntary or involuntary use? For me, this is an involuntary period. Maybe, for you, she's a volunteer. It disturbs me, but we will have the opportunity to come back. I understand that the National Pension Conference cannot do everything. A good limitation was already due to the legislation that put it in place because it could not go back to the past and could only look to the future; therefore, a whole series of reforms and themes did not fall within its scope. You are still talking about social consultation. I therefore assume that you will follow its outcome and the opinion of the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u68	Indeed, minister, in the media, it is strong! You sell the same measures as the Di Rupo government. It's already in the government agreement. It's not budgeted. And you're making an entire front page of Le Soir! Congratulations to you, it's politically well played! Now, is that right? Does this contribute to lasting solutions? That's another question. First of all, on the fact that it is in the line of the previous government, excuse me for not applauding you! We also challenged his pension line. I'll explain again why if necessary. Secondly, in relation to my question on cost in 5, 10 or 20 years, you answer that you do not have budget estimates. Whatever the reform, it seems to me to be really problematic on the part of a pension minister to move forward without knowing the impact. Pensions are a liner. A small decision can have an exponential budgetary effect: 36,000 at the beginning, then much more later, with more than a million people receiving a pension each month. A small decision can have a very heavy and multiplier effect. This is also regularly reported in the report of the Study Committee on Aging. Making statements without budget estimates seems problematic to me. Thirdly, you take points from the experts' report on the future of pensions. Like the previous government, you systematically set aside the issue of alternative pension financing. In relation to the issue of aging, what is being done? Is there a reduction in the rights of pensioners or future pensioners or, as more and more pensioners become older, is it possible to find ways to pay each decent pension? This is never the focus you take in your reflections on the future of pensions. I can join you when you say that if there is too much dropout between pay and pension, there will no longer be membership in our first pillar pension system. To ensure that as many people as possible have a suitable pension, alternative pension financing is required. That's never the angle you're taking. In this case, what you're announcing in a zero-sum game with a zero-budget impact is that people who already have difficulty closing their end-of-months to give to others. This is not a satisfactory solution. If the game is null and void, there will be winners and losers. In losers, they are already people who fail to live properly on a daily basis. I cannot understand that, as Minister of Pensions, you are contributing to the fact that people are facing even more difficulties tomorrow than they are today. I think it is necessary to leave the framework to find acceptable solutions and to care for those who have the lowest pension levels, especially women.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u69	Madam Chair, this question could have been attached to others that were asked earlier. It overlaps with the same theme. I am not going to make any major developments and I am coming directly to my questions. The government had promised to socially correct the impact of the index jump that it decided to impose for the social recipients. Minister, what savings has the index jump made in the payment of pensions? I would like to see the relationship between what is "made" and what has been saved in index jump. How will you define the minimum number of days that will actually have to be provided in order to be able to benefit from the revalorisation of his pension? This condition was not quantified in the advertisement. What percentage of pensioners will benefit from this increase? How many men and women will benefit from this upgrading? Finally, you received representatives of the unions last week who were demonstrating, not because there was a revalorisation, but because they rightly considered that there was discrimination there. What positions have emerged from this contact, which I hope was constructive and positive?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u70	Mr Daerden, as I said during the plenary session, the government decided to spend EUR 25 million on the upgrading of minimum pensions, in addition to the Well-being envelope. I repeat that with this sum, it is impossible to increase them all. The increase of 1% would amount to an increase of 82.3 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u71	But didn't you promise 127 million?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u72	For all allowances, not just for pensions. In fact, 25 million are also allocated to social integration income. And then, several measures focus on low wages, which are included in the tax shift program. We are well above 127 million, moreover. The 127 million concerned all social beneficiaries. A budget of EUR 50 million was foreseen for minimum income, minimum pensions and social integration. We therefore chose to link the increase in the minimum pension to a career condition. The aim of this measure is to strengthen the link between work and pension. It's a leitmotiv. When Mr Gilkinet says that we are not innovative and that we are not moving forward in a new concept, he is wrong. This concept is innovative. I am not used to saying that those who preceded me did nothing, on the contrary! Others before me have some merit and have made pension reforms. Some reforms have already tended to open up this reflection. And I really want to make this reflection the basis of all the reasoning on pension policy. It is not a question of organising a conflict between a high pension and a low pension. We have to get out of this Manichean reasoning. It is a question of thinking in terms of periods of work and periods of inactivity. What is the most valued? I'm asking the question! This government has decided to introduce pension reform in these terms. Are actual work periods more valued than periods of inactivity? And how do we do it? That is what we have decided to do. Here, we are trying to "distribute" this 25 million budget taking into account this new situation and to ensure that the people who have worked the most benefit from this envelope, which we cannot distribute to 2.5 million pensioners. We therefore chose to link the increase in the minimum pension to a career condition. With the measure we propose, we reintroduce a social pension bonus reserved for minimum pensions. We demand the social character of this measure but also its fairness in the light of the professional career actually provided by the beneficiaries. A total of 168,000 people will benefit from this increase. It's not nothing! Of these 168,000, the male/female ratio is 60/40. In the more specifically salaried sector, 76,000 people are employed: 52,000 women and 24,000 men. Almost half of the persons receiving the minimum pension fulfil the condition of full career and are therefore in a position to benefit from this adjustment. I would point out that 331,000 people have access to the minimum pension and continue to gain access to the minimum pension conditions. Others have access to it but are outside the scope of the conditions and are therefore no longer included in the minimum pension as such. Of these 331,000 people, only 168,000 are affected, or more than half. It's not that bad already! For further details on the composition of this group of pensioners, I refer you to the comments I made earlier. My budgetary concern is to respect the budget notification and to ensure that the measure remains within the budgetary framework of the 25 million for pensions. Two options are currently being considered by the government. I recently received the unions. They came to protest near my office. You know their point of view well since you were there. I didn't get you because you didn't want to come see me, but you were there on the street. Trade unions believe that the proposal to link the increase to the full career condition is disadvantageous for women. I replied that this was not the case, although I understand that there is a concern about equality between men and women. However, it is not on this ground that we must do so. This must be done on the career and on access to the minimum pension. The unions made the same remarks to the Management Committee of the National Pension Office. The Committee expressed a shared opinion on this measure. I have submitted your question about the effect of index jump on pension expenses to the National Pension Board. I will provide the exact answer as soon as it is communicated to me. It is important that this be the case since the time when indexation will actually take place, probably in the course of 2016, will be decisive in determining the period between the indexation of December 2012, January 2013, and the indexation that will take place now. The real calculation will be to compare the 2% indexation to the rate of inflation since the last indexation. We'll be surprised. This comparison will be interesting to know the real impact on purchasing power. I will therefore provide a response at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u73	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the answers already given and those that will come shortly. We will not reopen the debate on valorisation or rather the reduction in valorisation of periods assimilated in comparative terms. You're talking about a social bonus that replaces somewhere the bonus you've deleted. I understand that you regret this removal decision. It makes you uncomfortable and so you try to bring this one back. Here, you do it for those who have 45 years of career and who meet specified conditions, whereas previously, this bonus was intended for those who were in the early pension conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u74	43 years of career.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u75	It depended on individual situations, but it was the system of early pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u76	A year after the early pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u77	That we were starting to enjoy it. That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u78	No. We couldn't get into the system until a year later. That means, after 43 years of career. We were already very close to a full career. And it cost 18 million. Here, we give 25.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-03-54-commissie-ic336x.u79	These are two quite different things. So you indirectly acknowledge that you regret this measure. And every time, you come back with the Well-Being envelope. I would like to repeat once again that the Well-being envelope is not there to compensate for index jumps or something else; it is for a revalorisation of pensions. Therefore, the increases decided by the social partners in the distribution of the welfare envelope should not be repeated as compensation for the index jump.
