ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u2	[[for the standing meeting]] The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the day and the moment have been well chosen to give you a lecture on a letter I have written: au nom de notre assemblye, au Speaker of the House of Commons. So that our message can also reach the many British expatriates who live in our country, I will read it in English. “Mister Speaker, dear Colleague, It is with great sadness and heavy hearts that we hear of the Assembly of Labour MP Jo Cox after being shot and stabbed following a consensus meeting. Jo Cox was camping for Britain's EU referendum. She died doing her job. Her job as a member of Parliament. A job that all our colleagues over the world do every day: meeting with the people they represent and defending the interests of all their constituents. She was a model of patience, tolerance and a committed and caring MP who somehow to challenge and defend politics of hat and extremeism within local communities across Britain. Evil acts will not destroy democracy and all that comes with it but remember us of the fact that we have to cherish it because it invariably loves freedom and the rule of law. This is the letter I wrote on behalf of all of you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u3	Mr President, the government would like to discuss with you the terrible murder of Jo Cox. She died in the midst of her fellow citizens. Jo Cox was a driven politician who believed in her ideals. She believed in a better world. That's why her death is a blow to all of us. All democrats, whatever their convictions, must condemn this act of cowardice. On behalf of the government, I wish to join Parliament. We would like to pay tribute to a remarkable politician. His commitment, his idealism must be an example. Jo Cox loved Brussels, Europe and the values of tolerance, solidarity and respect. I want to end with the words of her husband, Brendan Cox: "We must fight the hatred that killed her."
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we observe a few moments of silence in memory of the murdered colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u5	[[for the standing meeting]] The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] Colleagues, Mr.Joseph Michel, Honorary Speaker of the House, left us on Friday, June 3, 2016. Born in Saint-Mard, near Virton in 1925, Joseph Michel taught at the University of Leuven where he collected the diplomas: doctorate in law, bachelor's degree in Thomist philosophy and degrees in notariat and economics. A lawyer at the Liège Court of Appeal, he soon began a local political career. He became a communal councillor in 1958 in Virton and was appointed mayor in 1970, because in Gaume, a frontier land, he was mayor and not mayor. He served as a mayor until 1982. Joseph Michel was first elected to the House of Commons as a Member of Parliament for the district of Neufchâteau-Virton in 1961. He sat in our assembly for thirty years without interruption. In less than no time he turned out to be a diligent, modest and attentive Member of Parliament, who only entered the chair if he wanted to make a point of something, and he fulfilled that office with exemplary devotion and insight. In 1968 he became chairman of the PSC chamber group. He was particularly interested in health, finance, social issues and regional economy issues. From 1974 to 1977 he served as the Minister's Office of the Interior in the Tindemans I Government. He marked the minds of the mayors and the population in 1975 by holding to the end the project of the reform of the fusion of the communes which would change the local political life of 10 million Belgians: it was indeed a matter of merging the 2,359 Francophone and Flemish communes existing in 589 new entities. During the passionate debates on the merger of the communes, the minister was able to confront with stoic perseverance, which led him to be sacred by the journalists "politician of the year 1975". From 1977 to 1979 he was appointed Minister of National Education in the 2nd government of Leo Tindemans and in the transitional government of Paul Vanden Boeynants. He then returned to the House as president of the PSC group, when the 1980 special laws on institutional reforms were discussed. In October 1980 he succeeded Jean Defraigne as President of the Chamber, until December 1981. From 1981 to 1986 he was Vice-President of the Chamber and also served for a number of years before the Finance Committee. He was also a member of the Walloon Regional Council from 1980 to 1991. During the period from 1986 to 1988 he succeeded Charles-Ferdinand Nothomb as Minister of the Interior and served as Minister of Public Administration and Decentralisation in the Martens VI and VII governments. Faced with the problem of the Fourons, he formulated a compromise proposal which was finally rejected by the parties in the north of the country. When Joseph Michel was elected Speaker of the House in 1980, our colleagues knew perfectly well that they were entrusting the perch to an experienced parliamentarian, who was able to carry out the most agitated debates and interpret the Rules with common sense and authority. For under quiet and debunking exteriors and a modest attitude, President Michel hid an iron grip and a tenacious will. Considered a "sage" of the assembly for its moderation and its sense of nuance and compromise and knowing how to exercise its prerogatives with benevolence, sensitivity and flexibility, he was a President of the House appreciated by all. His political career ended – it was in 1991 – Joseph Michel returned to his original passions. His profession as a lawyer of course: the man was a true tribune. Culture: the Gaumais Museum in Virton, which he presided over until January, owes him beautiful developments. Writing finally: some fifteen books on national politics, local history and its native Luxembourg. Anyone who has known Joseph Michel will think of him as a man of character, with a sharp mind and an even mind, who without a detour came out for his opinion, in the three country languages. He was sincere everywhere and always sincere, simple, jovial, and even if it were more informal, at the table with an Orval, beer from his native region, le pays de Gaume, he was very pleasant company. I suggest that you join in the tribute I have just paid to our former President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u6	Mr President, it was with great sadness that we learned on 3 June of the death of a great figure in Belgian politics, Mr Joseph Michel. Today, we wish to join the House in paying tribute to man and his exemplary political journey. Joseph Michel took his first steps in politics at the local level, before becoming an indispensable figure on the Belgian national political scene. His journey began in 1958, when he entered for the first time on the municipal council of his city, Virton, of which he became mayor in 1970. A multi-graduated and passionate politician, Joseph Michel soon climbed up the ranks to the federal level. He was party leader for several years and subsequently became Minister of the Interior and Minister of Education. His course led him back to the Chamber, but he returned to the executive as Minister of Civil Service. Joseph Michel was also a remarkable man who undeniably marked Belgian politics. He was, of course, owed the merger of the communes in 1975, a complex matter which he carried out to the end with great determination. He is very committed to his origins and to the culture of the Gambia, and throughout his career he will strive to promote his region with great dedication. For 38 years he was president of the Gaumais Museum, a position he held until a few months ago. With his disappearance, our country, but also the province of Luxembourg that he loved so much, lose a deeply committed man. His former colleagues and friends keep in memory the memory of a man of great dedication who, at the same time, displayed diplomacy and tenacity, two qualities that he combined with a lot of elegance. On behalf of the federal government, I wish to extend our deepest condolences to his family, to our colleagues who have known him well and to all his loved ones. We wish them courage in the trial they are going through.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u7	Thank you, Prime Minister. I salute Mr. Joseph Michel's family in the gallery. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also ask you to observe a few moments of silence to commemorate the deceased ex-President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u8	Mrs Kitir, you have the floor on the order of business.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u9	Mr President, today is the draft law (No. 1738) on tax regularisation on the agenda. The opposition has said several times that it is not a good story, especially when we see what is happening in the Panama story. We fear that the people of the Panama story will again make use of tax regularisation. Moreover, the Brussels and Walloon Parliament have indicated that, if that law is adopted, they will move to the Constitutional Court. Mr President, we have tabled an amendment. We ask that it be sent to the Council of State for advice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u10	Mr President, on the same text, our group has also tabled two amendments (Nos 4 and 5) which it wishes to submit to the Council of State. The first attempts to resolve the conflict of jurisdiction that has not been resolved by the government and tries to prevent the announcement of an appeal to the Constitutional Court by providing that the text may enter into force, once a cooperation agreement has been signed and ratified by the federal State on the one hand, and by the Flemish, Walloon and Brussels regions on the other. Furthermore, we are introducing a second amendment, which aims to prevent criminal impunity for co-authors and accomplices of tax fraud, which is at the heart of the work of the Panama Papers Committee and of topical issues such as the one on Optima.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u11	Mr President, on the same subject, the PS Group tabled three amendments (Nos 6, 7 and 8), for which it also asked for the opinion of the Council of State. As you know, we have an opposition in principle to this bill, which goes against what is being done in particular at European level. I am thinking of the exchange of information and an intensification of the fight against tax fraud organized in the context of Panama Papers and Offshore Leaks, to name but a few examples. In addition, we have also had to take into account the opinion of the Council of State, which very clearly points to an encroachment of powers on the fiscal powers of the Regions in the context following the sixth reform of the State. That is why the first amendment seeks to propose a solution which, at least, addresses this problem and which will lead the candidates for regularisation to prove the nature of the income and the nature of the tax to which they belong. The second amendment is also very important. It aims to locate the point of contact for regularization candidates not at the Anticipated Decisions Service but at the Special Inspectorate of Taxes, where it is more appropriate, which will have the necessary means and skills to carry out the required checks. Finally, the third amendment provides for a number of arrangements for checking the documents which will be submitted by the candidates for regularisation with sufficient time to make this control effective. That, Mr President, is three amendments which will therefore be tabled to you and for which we are asking for the opinion of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u12	Mr President, the cdH Group also tabled two amendments (Nos 2 and 3), which have not yet been discussed, so that they could be referred to the Council of State. Colleagues recalled the conflicts of competence, but there is also an issue that has not been raised during all the work on the DLU. Indeed, the project allows the DLU to cover regional taxes in case of agreement with the Region concerned and also allows the conclusion of cooperation agreements with a single Region. However, the risk is that a regularisation operation will go beyond the Region concerned. Indeed, a taxpayer domiciled, for example, in Flanders may come to regularize both to the PPI and to the estate of a close relative yet from another Region. We therefore table two amendments to require the signing and negotiation of cooperation agreements with the three Regions and to allow this bill to enter into force only after the said agreements have been concluded.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u13	Mr President, the PTB has tabled an amendment (No 1) co-signed by the whole group. The purpose of this amendment is to challenge the basis of what I continue to call a tax amnesty, even if the government prefers the term regularization. It is essential that this bill exempts a person who uses the regularization system from criminal prosecution. It is therefore an incentive to tax fraud, since sanctions are not particularly dissuasive! This is not the first tax amnesty law, but here it is established as a permanent system and it is particularly serious. I sent the amendment by e-mail to the services and I will resubmit it in paper form with our signatures. I ask that it be submitted to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I assume that these amendments have been tabled in the meantime. In accordance with the Standing Orders, the application must be supported by one third of the meeting, or 50 members. Whoever supports the request is now entitled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u15	Mr President, I understand that you are asking for the opinion as a matter of urgency, but I would like to point out that some amendments have gone from the committee to the Council of State. He declared the proceedings inadmissible on the grounds – and I insist – that the request for urgent review was not properly motivated by the Speaker of the House. As much as I have no problem with you submitting this opinion as a matter of urgency, I would like to urge you to do so properly. Failing this, you still have the opportunity to consult the Council of State without any urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u16	I have received a letter from the Minister of Finance, who insists on urgency. I can read it to you, but I won't.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u17	What about motivation?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u18	It will be correct. That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u19	Mr President, I draw the attention of all members to the fact that the opinion of the Council of State on this matter has been delivered twice. The second time dealt with the distribution of competences. The opinion had, moreover, already been requested as a matter of urgency. The Council of State had pointed out that, as a matter of urgency, it was difficult for it to give a detailed and detailed opinion on such a complex subject. That is why, from the moment when several amendments are specifically aimed at solving this problem of allocation of powers, the urgency seems to me, in this case, to be difficult to accept. I can understand naturally the situation in which the Minister of Finance is in, but I still wanted to point that out to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u20	Mr President, in your argument, you said that this bill was urgent. However, I do not think that this draft law has been called for at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u21	You're right.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u22	The urgency therefore does not apply to the Council of State either.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u23	In view of the arguments which I would like to read out, if necessary, those given in terms of urgency, urgency, I am nevertheless wise, I must inform you, to ask the urgency. Overigens, Mr.Laaouej, the argument you are making is real, but it is reversible: the Council of State has already seen this bill and therefore knows it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u24	Mr President, no, because the amendment that we are submitting is aimed precisely at providing a response that the government was not providing. This means that there is a new element from the point of view of legal construction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u25	Otherwise, of course, there was no amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u26	Mr President, I would like to support you. Sometimes, if you want to save time, you lose time. If the Council of State again says that it does not have time to see the substance, I am confident that you will again have fifty parliamentarians who will relaunch a request for the Council of State to finally have time to consider this bill. Therefore, I believe that you can very well intervene at the level of the Council of State so that the opinion can be delivered within a reasonable time, in particular by arguing at the end of the session, without asking for an urgency which would not allow the Council of State to examine the substance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u27	We shall now proceed to the oral questions. For the sake of clarity, because I want to accept my responsibility, I will, on the basis of the email I received from the Minister of Finance, ask the urgency, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. We can't argue forever. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u28	Let's stay calm!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u29	Mr President, you have already taken the same initiative with regard to the text "Tax regularisation". I refer you to the reading of the opinion of the Council of State, on the one hand, of a very bad mood because of the urgency that had not been argued. On the other hand, it was not able to do its work of substantive analysis in relation to a problem of allocation of competences which is indeed complex. I refer you to Mrs Onkelinx's argument that I share. Sometimes, if you want to save time, you lose time. The freedom of parliamentarians present here is complete to represent other amendments and to ask for an opinion from the Council of State later. By insisting on following, rather than Parliament, the Minister of Finance, you may miss the goal you are pursuing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u30	Mr. Chairman, can't you question the government? The opposition doesn't want to talk to talk. It's a little weird. You are being questioned, you say you have a request from the government and you do not take your responsibilities as Speaker of the House. We take note of that. I think that's really a limit. You can ask the Council of State to give its opinion in ten days' time. That this must be done with a certain speed does not pose a problem to us. But the Council of State has to respond on the merits, otherwise we will restart the procedure. This is ridiculous!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u31	In that case, I can read the letter from the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u32	Mr President, to be quite precise, if I understand correctly, the constructive suggestion of the opposition is to seek an opinion from the Council of State without asking for urgency, which would then imply that additional amendments would not be retabled after this opinion of the Council of State. If that is the approach I am hearing, then I can agree with that reasoning, provided that it is the message sent by the opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u33	I agree with that. We take note of the arguments put forward. I can only inform you that I intend to stick to my position and ask for urgency in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u34	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u35	We are not going to discuss this for an hour, Mrs Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u36	We are not going to discuss this for an hour, but the message that goes here against you, Mr President, is that we want a Council of State opinion on the substance, through the door or through the window. Any other response will not be acceptable. I hope you understand the message. We fear that, with urgency, the Council of State will not express its position on the substance, yet that is what we all want here, for the legal certainty of the project.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u37	Mr President, I would like to be sure that you have heard what the Prime Minister has said. You cling to the letter from the Minister of Finance, but I have the impression that the Prime Minister spoke on behalf of the government. We said yes. You can all say "yes."
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u38	Mr. Laaouej didn't say "yes"!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u39	Prime Minister, if I say yes, it's okay! That's enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u40	Mr. Chairman, I am not sure that you have understood the Prime Minister's words. The Minister of Finance is not here, but the Prime Minister is here and I think he is speaking on behalf of the government. This is usually the case with a prime minister. He tells us that there is no problem if the urgency is not invoked, on the understanding that he is well aware that the opposition will not reintroduce amendments afterwards. Everyone agrees more or less; you can follow the Prime Minister's proposal and not ask for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u41	Mr President, I hear two concerns. On the one hand, the Council of State needs to be given the signal that it can give its opinion on the substance of the draft. If one speaks in this context of urgency, it will, of course, send the wrong message. On the other hand, it's about the number of days. I believe it is possible, taking into account what I hear here, to contact the Council of State and make an agreement that will follow the opinion in a very reasonable time. If the opposition has the certainty that the Council of State has actually been able to give its opinion on the substance of the matter, it is prepared, I think, to begin the discussion and not to organise a carousel which systematically asks for the opinion again. I believe that these two objectives can be reconciled. The Council of State is given the opportunity to speak out on the ground, but insists that this should be done within a tight timetable, without talking about urgency, because I hear that this works like a red rag on a bull, if I may use that image in this configuration.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u42	Contact will be sought with the Council of State and will look into the time frame within which it can work, also in view of the urgency, including budgetary, which is put forward by the Minister of Finance. I'll let you know about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u43	Mr President, I would like to speak for the form. I am surprised at the direct inquiry of the Prime Minister. My group leader spoke, and in so doing gave the position of the whole Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u44	Mr President, I would still like to correct something put forward by Mr Laaouej about the opinion of the Council of State. It is true that, in his second opinion, the latter states that there is no urgency, but he says above all that he has already given a substantive opinion on the dossier, that he has made remarks which the government has taken into account in adapting his draft, and that Parliament has all the elements to be able to deliberate. Some may continue to try to defer consideration of this bill, but already in 2015, the Council of State had analysed the bill in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u45	We will contact the Council of State and as soon as it answers, you will be informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u46	Today is a historic day for the United Kingdom, for Europe and for the EU. For the first time, through the referendum on the Brexit, a people can express their views on the undemocratic policy of the European Union. The United Kingdom can regain its sovereignty, its independence. Boris Johnson said it yesterday: Today is Independence Day. Let us hope that it is. This is also a day of hope, Prime Minister. A day of hope, because the United Kingdom can't shake off the EU yoke I'm not saying the European yoke. Hopefully it can set a precedent for the whole of Europe, so that all the peoples of Europe, all 28, can regain their sovereignty again and be in charge of their own borders, control their own money, control their own country. Nigel Farage said it: "It's time to take back our country." What does the Belgian Government do? The Belgian Government, under the leadership of the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister, which, of course, supported by the Prime Ministers such as Geert Bourgeois, weeps with the Europhiles in the forest. Figures such as Juncker and Tusk, which have never been elected by one European citizen, have a particular future and therefore the future of the EU. Over the past few days, the government has done a lot of voting, especially Minister Peeters. In that moodry, the Brexit is ultimately portrayed as a doomsday scenario for all Europeans, including for us, Flemings and Walen, while the Brexit is a change to the future with the possible exit of our country, the vlexit of Flanders and the wexit of Wallonia from the EU. My question, Prime Minister, is therefore obvious. Would it not be better, instead of launching doomsday scenarios and setting up working groups with barons and graves, to be faithful in the path of the regime and the royal house, and therefore of the EU, to give the people, the man in the street, who is under the yoke of the dictatorship of the European Union, the opportunity to speak out? Do you dare to challenge the Flemings and the Walls to express their views on the European Union and to give them the opportunity to leave the European Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u47	Prime Minister, as you know, there is a referendum today in Great Britain. The question that is being asked of the British people, yes or no to the European Union, is ultimately a non-choice. The British people were offered either to remain in a neoliberal European Union or to enter an ultraliberal Britain. Basically, a choice between plague and cholera. That is what is being done today at the level of Britain. And I say right away, at the PTB, we really don't think Brexit is any solution to the problems of British workers. I agree with Ken Loach, who said just after receiving his gold palm in Cannes: "We will vote to stay, but with a very critical attitude towards the European Union, because we want another Europe". Since we are talking about another Europe, Prime Minister, you have said that the Brexit referendum, whatever the outcome, is a political momentum that calls for a substantive debate on the direction to be taken by the European Union. You even called yesterday in the House to a summit of the political leaders of the European Union to reflect on our future and to "make concrete progress in European integration showing citizens the added value of the European Union." That is to say, if you are aware that people do not perceive the progress made by the European Union. But there is a very simple reason for this, that the current direction of the European Union does not bring well-being to people. I will make it clear that, contrary to what has been said by many traditional parties, for me this European Union is the cause of the rise of nationalism. The European Union we are building today is based on competition between peoples, competition between workers. All against all. The peoples of Eastern Europe against the peoples of Southern Europe. Competition on wages, competition on national productivity, competition on border protection. All this competition, which is part of the European Union's DNA, is the very cause of the rise of nationalism in Europe. Prime Minister, I ask you that we no longer have double standards in the construction of the European Union. When the Greek people and their government asked for a little social respite, any form of initiative of the Greek people was stifled. But when the British government asks for exceptions to go further in ultraliberalism, to go further in the gifts made in the English City, there is no problem, a tailor-made contract is drawn up for the richest in Europe. Mr Prime Minister, my question is very clear: on the occasion of this Brexit, are you going to ask for a substantive debate to completely review this Europe based solely on profit first and competition between peoples, and to establish a social Europe, which is urgent today?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u48	Prime Minister, yesterday you stated that, regardless of the outcome of the Brexit referendum, you are proposing a conclave of 27-28 Heads of Government. That's a pretty classic recipe. The Brexit referendum is actually a signal of a deep crisis in Europe. In this context, I am thinking of the ruling 'Never let a good crisis go to waste'. I therefore recommend that you consider what is actually Europe's final objective. After all, many people regard Europe as something that leads to more uncertainty and more insecurity. I believe that we must once again fight for a positive Europe where prosperity and security are guaranteed for all citizens. Historically, Belgium has always been a great pioneer in that debate. Now we see that Belgium is being put on the hold, for example in the fight against tax avoidance by multinationals, or in the tax on financial transactions. However, there are quite a few challenges. Think of the asylum crisis and the management of the common borders. Think of further developing the euro area, creating jobs and investing. Think also of security policy and the fight against terrorism. Think about it. That's really not my bed show about social dumping, which makes people feel like they've been losing their jobs since joining the European Union. Just think of fair taxation. Prime Minister, does Belgium intend to remain dragging in Europe, or is it going to take back its historic role as a great defender of Europe, to pursue a positive and clear policy based on what wakes people up?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u49	Mr President, Prime Minister, I cannot help but start this question with a moment of attention to Mr Jo Cox, who has unfortunately been a victim of democracy. Prime Minister, we are living a historic moment, but it would be a mistake to consider this a historic moment only for the United Kingdom, it is also a historic moment for Europe, for the European Union. Whichever side wins, what is happening today is also a question raised at European level. And it is at European level that the answers must be given, in both cases. For the MR, it is important to continue the construction of Europe, it is important to continue European integration. That is the very foundation of the project we are carrying. Some criticise a liberal Europe, but we intend to see a liberal Europe continue, develop and defend the rights and freedoms of our citizens. To Mr Hedebouw, I would remind him that he has just given a demonstration of historical non-knowledge by saying that it is Europe that creates tensions between nations. Some time ago, Europe was the place where all nations faced each other in the most horrific conflicts that we have known. Mr Hedebouw, if we go a little further in the analysis, like historian Ernst Nolte, we realize that one of the great difficulties was the tension between two totalitarianisms: fascism and your communism! Prime Minister, what initiatives are you going to take to relaunch the European project? We need a deepening of the single market, we need cooperation between the security services, we need a continuation of European defence. You'll allow me a personal coquetry. I continue to believe that there will be no European membership if there is not a European cultural project and if there is not a social Europe. And there will be no social Europe if we do not finally have modern trade unionism, capable of understanding that we must also build a social Europe!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u50	Mr President, I, too, and on behalf of my group, would like to pay tribute to the memory of Labour Member Jo Cox, whose tragic death has marked us all. Prime Minister, the British will today make a sovereign decision, through a referendum, on their European future. Whatever the outcome of the election, one thing is certain, you knowingly participated in a game of deception by accepting the terms imposed by David Cameron. Indeed, while the economic machine is broken, while the agreement on refugees with Turkey skates, while the European project is so defied, you and your counterparts have devoted two Council meetings to helping achieve a Conservative Cameron's electoral promise. However, your colleague's approach is certainly not aimed at, and you know, a better Europe. The choice it imposes on you is either a dismantling of the Union by leaving the United Kingdom, or a dissolution of the interior by continuing to undermine the European project. And he was very clear; he told the press, saying that the victory of the "yes" would allow him to continue the reforms from within. How are you gonna stop him? Of course, things are clear, Europe must remain united. But not at the cost of questioning the rights and freedoms of Europeans or of influencing the euro area, to which, I would remind you, the United Kingdom does not even belong. Yet, Prime Minister, David Cameron's approach is sometimes an important opportunity or momentum for you. So how do you explain that the Council offered such concessions to Mr Cameron? Is it not likely that other Member States will do the same blackmail? I have read and heard your answers to the opinion committee. But, in concrete terms, what are you proposing to relaunch this European project, while Belgium is at the same time being noticed by its Euro-scepticism within ECOFIN? What are you proposing in terms of solidarity? What are you proposing for the TTF? For the strengthening of the Eurozone? For public investment in the economy? For a banking union? For the questioning of trade treaties that are widely criticized by our citizens, like TTIP?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u51	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we have to say that everything in Europe is a huge understatement. This Brexit is not an exclusive British problem. There is a eurosceptic wind blowing across Europe and this is evident from many things, such as the low turnout at the elections or the result of the Ukraine referendum in the Netherlands. This is also apparent from the rise of anti-European political parties in Austria, France and Hungary. It is therefore important to consider not only the consequences of a Brexit, but also the causes of this Brexit. It is a good thing that this referendum is taking place. It's a wake-up call, an invitation, a call to critical self-reflection. One thing is clear: the traditional Europhile or Europhoric approach has failed. We now need a euro-realistic approach. We do recognize ourselves in some of the arguments of the Brexit camp. Yes, it is a legitimate sigh to plead for more sovereignty, for more independence. Yes, we also believe that free movement of citizens in Europe does not mean free shopping in social security. Yes, the crisis at European level could have been tackled much better. But problems, ladies and gentlemen, are not solved by moving away from the table. We want to make sure that we solve these problems at the European table, if the British can. Whatever the outcome, ladies and gentlemen, Britain is not a ship that sails. It's an island, it's here today and it'll be there tomorrow. The ties with Europe are intertwined. The economic ties are there, we must continue to invest in Britain. Whatever the outcome, let us not fall into resentment, in revenge towards Britain. We must not widen the channel or dig deeper, we must continue to commit to that alliance. Finally, Brexit of bremain: we should not move on to a kind of European superstate. Those who still think today that there is a basis for this passionate European integration are coming from Mars. Prime Minister, please answer two questions. First of all, you made a proposal yesterday: a conclave. What results do you expect from this? Have you received any comments from your European colleagues? Secondly, we are told that the government, through Mr Peeters, has set up a working group to calculate the effects of a Brexit. Did you also discuss this with Prime Minister Geert Bourgeois, who also had an investigation carried out to this effect?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u52	Prime Minister, as environmentalists and like the English Greens, we are in favour of the widest and most integrated Europe possible. We therefore do not see with a good mind the idea that a country would leave the European Union. I must confess that, since the announcement of this referendum by Mr Cameron and after all the concessions made to him by the European leaders, of which you yourself, I still want to say: "Messeurs les anglais, get out first! We will build a Europe with those who want one!" What is the point, Prime Minister, of putting our federalist principles in the pocket, of allowing an exceptional regime for the United Kingdom, of practicing endless contortions, of building a Europe à la carte, of allowing nationalism and violence to express itself in an attempt to please a country that does not want to play the game and refuses a European project? That is really the main reproach I want to make to your government. Today, Belgium's positions, particularly at the ECOFIN Summits, are such that it is no longer a driving force for Europe, and that it is also scuttling. It has created this context, which has led to the emergence of the idea of a referendum, which is causing a very deep crisis in the European Union, perhaps the most serious one it has experienced since it was founded. Prime Minister, I would like to ask you for the position of the government. I know yours, but I would like to hear from the government, including the most important party of the majority, which is expressing itself in increasingly Eurosceptic terms. What position will you stand at the next European Summit on the future of Europe, whatever the outcome of this referendum, which must be the conclusion of a bad soap opera for the Union? Above all, how does Belgium intend to resume its role as a leader in European integration and put an end to the logic of a Europe à la carte, which will not lead us anywhere?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed an important vote that will take place in a few hours. This is an important vote for the British, an important vote for the European project too. I, together with the government, believe that Europe plays a leading role, a useful role, a positive role whenever it comes to gathering around a common ambition. I note, with many of you, that in recent years Europe has appeared in the eyes of citizens more like a body that is dealing with crises in difficulty and suffering, one after the other, and less as being in a position to present added value, to present the demonstration that this European project improves the way of life of citizens in all the countries concerned. That is the reality! That's the diagnosis! That is why two scenarios will appear in a few hours. Either there is a vote for retention, or there is a vote to leave the European Union. I'm also responding to these two options. If this is to be maintained, the government's position will be to faithfully implement the agreement reached in February and to try, in implementing this agreement, to see how the most favourable points can be transformed, for example to support business creation, job creation, in order to ensure that this Europe is truly and authentically social, by improving living conditions. The second option is the Brexit. Article 50 of the Convention lays down a period of two years after the notification by the British Government to conduct negotiations. This means that there could be different options for the new cooperation between Britain and Europe. The position of the British Government over the next few hours will, of course, be vital to the answer to two questions. Firstly, at what point will the notification take place? Secondly, what are the British Government's proposals for a new form of cooperation between Europe and Britain? This means that we take all the analyses of the economic consequences for Belgium and the European countries very seriously. However, these analyses do not take into account the different forms of cooperation possible in the case of a Brexit. Finally, I come to the most important point. What is the political consequence? I think this is the most important point. What is the position of the Belgian Government for the future? I am convinced that it is vital, in both options, to organise a conclave at the highest political level as soon as possible in the next three months. My plea is very simple. I call for collective action within the framework of this European project, on some key issues, of the key issues to show again the added value of the European Union for each of the citizens of the European Union. Efforts must be made to further strengthen the internal market, for example in the field of new technologies. We need to ensure that there is a capacity to open up more borders on the issue of energy, for example, and to come to grips with this very important issue for our common future. Together, we must defend our internal and external security. We're stronger when we're gathered. I believe in free movement. I am convinced that it is an opportunity to strengthen the euro area, with a successful political, economic and social programme. It's a matter of political will. Specifically, I had a conversation with Donald Tusk yesterday. I made that plea and received a positive response. I hope it will be possible to use that important political momentum in the coming weeks. I am convinced that this question of political will will will be crucial in the head of governments, parliaments, to give meaning to this European project. There is a need for strong collective action, within the framework of a conclave around a few key priorities, to make Europe more effective and to make it more popular with all European citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u54	Prime Minister, your answer is clear. If there is a Brexit, if Britain departs from Europe, then instead of giving the people the opportunity to speak, we will organise a conclave with the 28 Heads of Government. Then we are going to advocate even more the European Union to the people. So we will do just the opposite of what is not done in Europe, but in Britain we will, namely giving the people the floor, give the electorate the chance to speak out. I didn't expect anything else from you. You apparently went to Donald Tusk yesterday afternoon to get your orders. Be that as it may, we also know where you'll end up getting your executives directly from. Let me just say this. Anyone who is today arguing for a Brexit is not against Europe but against the EU, the European Union. After all, the European Union has evolved from an economic project to a political project, that of a superstate ruling over the heads of our sovereign parliaments and above the heads of citizens and imposing on citizens all kinds of things, on immigration, on taxes, laws that we do not want and on which we cannot decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u55	Mr Dewinter, one last sentence to conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u56	Let me perhaps say it with the words of someone who knows what he is talking about, the last leader of the Soviet Union, Mikhail Gorbachev, who recently said about the EU: "The EU has become a new kind of Soviet Union'. He's right. There is only one solution, as with the Soviet Union, we must deal with that superstate and dare to put our own sovereignty at the centre again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u57	Mr Dewinter, you have exceeded your speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u58	Prime Minister, I do not think your momentum is going in the right direction. We discussed the causes of the emergence of all these forms of nationalism and racism in Europe. I say to you that it is Europe's fault that these forms of nationalism are taking off. Every week you come here to Parliament to explain that there is competition between the workers and servants of our country and those of other countries in Europe. This competition means that we have to work for up to 67 years. Because of this competition, wages have to fall. This competition must reduce our social budgets. Every day you explain how competition in Europe feeds this nationalism. In Britain there is a major problem of social dumping. Workers and servants in Britain face this competition. And what do you say? We are moving forward with this Europe of competition. I say to you, let us make the Brexit an opportunity to hold a fundamental debate. Do we want a Europe of solidarity or do we want a Europe of competition? If we continue with this Europe of competition, then the contradictions between the peoples will lead to the scattering of Europe. That is a major problem for me, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u59	Prime Minister, you have not answered clearly or clearly enough for me. If Britain does not want to stay within the EU, then I believe that we need to do something about it. We shouldn't keep pappies and wet, whether mussels or fish choose to end up in endless negotiations. I believe that a number of countries in Europe should sit together. You have rightly mentioned a number of points such as ecology, energy, security, the euro area, jobs, social security. But we need to make that more concrete. I would like to make a warm appeal to our country too to look very clearly at what wakes people up and how, with the other Member States, we can achieve a safe and a social Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u60	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer, for sharing with us your meeting with Mr Tusk and for the idea of a conclave that you are putting forward. This conclave seems to me to be of as historic importance as the day we are living today. Whether the British decide to leave or stay, the answer must be an opportunity for a new European start. This can only be possible if you, Prime Minister, bear the spirit of Europe's "founding fathers", if you manage to share with our European partners the spirit of European federalism, a European federalism that must be beneficial to the nations that make up the various Member States and to the regions that make up Europe. But also and above all, Prime Minister, and I know that this is your point of view and that this is the basis of your European thinking, a European federalism that is beneficial to the people of Europe and to the citizens of Europe. Give us, Prime Minister, with our European partners, a genuine European citizenship! Let us build Europe together! It is time to get around the table to really try to reenchant Europe and relight the stars of the European flag.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u61	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. I'll make you a confession: Cameron's deregulation isn't my cup of tea at all. For the PS group, this Cameron deregulation is not the future of Europeans. Europe cannot be limited to a large market where money is united, but never for solidarity. Indeed, you propose the holding of a conclave and it may be a good idea. Maybe that's one of the solutions. But I'm worried about the themes you're talking about for this conclave. Both yesterday and in the House Hall, you talked about strengthening internal markets, cooperation in terms of communication, strong migration policy and security, but you never mentioned a social project. Fortunately, Mr. Miller did. Is it really on deregulation issues that Europe needs to be built? No. The social and economic project must be reviewed in depth. Here, Prime Minister, what should be the priority. Today, it is no longer time for particularisms but for a European project to be recast in the service of Europeans. That is how we can restore confidence to Europeans. We have a common destiny which, I would like to remind you, cannot be the "all to austerity". I shall end, Mr President, by quoting Jacques Delors, who already said in 1989: "We do not fall in love with a large market". Today, I'm adding "no more austerity." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u62	Prime Minister, I am pleased that you are presenting yourself as the trigger of the conclave. We are also convinced that the added value of Europe - which is what it is - can be made clear to the citizen. Prime Minister, do so with the necessary sense of Eurorealism. Do the same with the national parliaments, because they are closest to the citizens and they need to be involved in that story. And do so with an open visor vis-à-vis Europe. Dare to question Europe, not necessarily in order to achieve an increasingly integrated Europe, some superstate, but into a Europe where there is a sensible integration.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u63	Prime Minister, your idea of a conclave is a good one, but I fear that it will not rise to the European stakes. Above all, it is in contradiction with the actions taken by your representatives at the European Summits, in particular ECOFIN. Today, Belgium is no longer an engine of European construction. As far as asylum and immigration policy are concerned, Mr Franken is calling for selfishness, the complete closure of borders, whatever the situation elsewhere. On the financial side, I asked you last Thursday about the position taken by Mr. Van Overtveldt on taxation on financial transactions and, at the same time, at ECOFIN, he was busy sabotaging a directive aimed at avoiding tax evasion by multinationals. Today, the European press as a whole points out that Belgium is one of the main culprits of the blockages in European integration. So, a conclave, Prime Minister, why not? That's a good idea. I ask you first of all to become again the boss of this government and to ensure that all your ministers, in the European meetings, plead for a resumption of European construction on these three pillars: social, fiscal and energy, in order to aim for the autonomy of Europe. To get out of this crisis, you have to be on the line, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u64	Mr President, Prime Minister, stop lying! Let's do the positive thinking! I therefore propose that we rejoice at the victory of the Red Devils yesterday and their qualification for the eighth finals of the European Championship. Having said that, Prime Minister, I listened to your performance on the radio yesterday morning in front of a panel sorted out on the track. I have to tell you that she didn't convince me. Let me give you some indicators to show you that your socio-economic project is not working. So, for example, at the economic level, I invite you to consider the number of bankruptcies. As far as the social field is concerned, we can only see the number of exclusions from unemployment, the importance of child poverty. As far as the environment is concerned, you cannot ignore the number of deaths due to pollution by fine particles and others. This is how I get to some of the answers you've given. If the specific pension scheme for hard-working workers is included in your government agreement, it must be noted that it is one of the Arlesiennes of the Minister of Pensions. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that sharing of working time is working in other countries. It also operated in the French Community thanks to the Tandem Plan, but the measures to remove access to time credit made it difficult. There's really nothing to bomb the torso, Prime Minister, and say everything's fine. In addition, I was questioned by the report of the Office of the Plan, which, like the National Bank, amounts to between 8 and 9 billion dollars of the budgetary effort to be made, if the government maintains its fiscal trajectory. According to the Plan Bureau, wanting to clean up at any price, in an accelerated manner, public finances in a context of low growth is unrealistic and counterproductive. In a way, it means wanting to die cured. Prime Minister, have you read this report from the Office of the Plan? Do you share his analysis of the risks of the austerity policies pursued and of a return to balance too quickly? Are you prepared to plead, at European level, for a change of course and for the Belgian state's ability to invest in the economy of tomorrow and to bring about a more shared prosperity for all our citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a debate that we have regularly on Thursdays. I will once again say all the commitment, all the mobilization of this government to achieve two ambitions. On the one hand, to continue working for fiscal consolidation. In the coming years, efforts will still be needed, as we know; indeed, efforts had already begun in previous years. We want to continue, to keep the train of this commitment to respect future generations. On the other hand, we want to ensure that reform measures are taken to support economic recovery, business creation and job creation. I would like to say to you, Mr Gilkinet, that you can repeat counter-truths week after week, but they do not become truths! I regret, for example, that you did not mention the fact that the Plan Office, and that, after the ICN, after the National Bank, notes that thanks to the reforms that were decided, between 2016 and 2021, 230,000 jobs could be created. Over the last five years, about 150,000 jobs have been created, almost 100,000 more! That is the reality of the decisions that are taken by this government. We will continue, on the one hand, to act, to be responsible, to work to control our financial situation for the benefit of future generations and, on the other hand, to take measures that bear fruit, which bring their first results to give this country the capacity to assume its destiny and to ensure that employment is created and that our social protections can be financed sustainably. You want to make it look like you could work less, not save, not save and live much better, that's not the truth!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u66	And you, Prime Minister, want to make our fellow citizens believe that applying austerity measures to them to finish, saving billions on social security, that creating budget deficits for the future will make them more prosperous, happier, and make our economy work! We don't believe that, and that's what the Plan Office is telling you. The pace of return to balance that has been chosen by the government and the continuation of fiscal austerity will lead to economic problems that are even more serious than today. I regret, Prime Minister, that you refused to hear it, and that you were content with communications operations. One week, four million to communicate abroad, the other week, a radio interview with guests who, I repeat, were sorted out on the track. What we want, Prime Minister, is a change of course. Go negotiate with Europe a reduction in the budget tightness, a little breath, a little investment capacity, and give this country a socio-economic project that aims to provide work for all through better sharing, which aims at strong public services and a modern energy policy that leads us one day to autonomy and to the end of this dependence on oil oligarchies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u67	Mr. Secretary, let me read you something. Lut and Felix have two children, one of whom is a daughter with a disability. Goedele is now 30 years old and needs a lot of attention and care. Lut's a nurse, it's her dream job. She had to slow down, because the combination of family work and family care was absolutely untenable. Lut decides to go to work half-time, not as a nurse, as a secretary. Lut now retires after 41 years of work. She feels double-punished because she has had to give up her full-time dream job, to be able to take care of and, despite the fact that she has always cared for Goede at home and has not applied to a health care institution, she now has a very low pension." For example, there are dozens of examples in my book. There are hundreds of them in our country. That is the reality. What is the current government doing, however? It limits the time-credit, no longer grants a premium for unmotivated time-credit and therefore does not allow it to count for the pension. This is a measure affecting mainly female carers. Minister, you know with me that carers are essential links in the care chain. It's thanks to those doers that our health care stays affordable. The average length of care is ten years. This period is therefore well beyond the periods in all healthcare systems when they are combined. Beautiful words are of little use to carers. It is time for concrete policy actions. I just have one question for you. What support measures will the current government take for carers and especially when?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u68	Mr Minister, today is the Day of Family Care. For the carers it is every day of care. It is therefore important that the various authorities support the carers. This is also the reason why the Flemish health insurance was developed at community level, not only for those who are residential, but also for those who are cared for and helped at home. It is also the reason why many municipalities issue family benefits. That is why there is a range of professional support services in the Communities, whether night care, baby care or day care. That is why Minister Jo Vandeurzen also has a plan to support the carers, I heard this morning. We think support for carers is important, because carers are partners of the government in providing care. Of course, there is also a federal aspect to supporting carers. Cradle care is of all ages. A lot of research has been done on this, in Flanders by KVLV among others, to which you have also contributed. This raises the demand for federal support. I would like to stress once again that the government allows an additional year of time credit for care. That time loan didn't cut the government off. That is why, in the context of unemployment, Minister Peeters, you have taken into account the 48 months of equality of care as a whole. That period is also eligible for the calculation of the pension. That's what we defended in the government. We hear that you plan to extend the support of the carers in the context of agile and workable work. What measures do you plan to take? Do they correspond to what is happening at Community level? What's the timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u69	First of all, I would like to join the two colleagues: carers deserve our respect and are essential in our society. Figures show that there are 650 000 carers in our country. I hope that we will be able to ensure that this number increases throughout the country. Questions have rightly been raised about what is happening at the federal level, in addition to what is already being done in the Communities, the Regions and even at the local level to support the carers. I repeat, the federal government has assumed its responsibility in this matter. Reference has rightly been made to the Royal Decree of 15 April 2015 concerning unemployed carers, for whom 48 months of household care are treated as equivalent. We have also worked on family care insurance. We have made sure that the insurance companies put a policy on the market. Minister Borsus has also drawn up a scheme for the self-employed. Finally, in the draft law on manoeuvre and workable work, we will extend care leave at sectoral level by three months, so that it is 51 months, and palliative leave by one month. Additional measures are also under consideration. Firstly, an in-depth analysis of the use and impact of thematic leave is being carried out. Secondly, research is being carried out into how to optimise the granting of care leave in order to better respond to the situation of family care. Thirdly, consideration is also being given to the possibility of making time-credit absorption more flexible in response to the need for care in defined situations. Fourthly, it is being examined whether the RVA regulation on healthcare leave can be updated. Fifthly, we are examining whether, for compelling reasons, leave can also be applied in defined family care situations. Colleagues, I decide. We have already taken measures. You can say that we have to go further. Now, at the moment, several cases are being investigated, together with the Communities. The question referred to Flemish Minister Jo Vandeurzen, but I assume that steps will also be taken in the French-speaking part of the country to give the 650 000 carers a good statute, so that we can ensure that they can continue to provide care.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u70	Minister, there are one million carers in Belgium. The 650 000 carers you mention are the figures in Flanders. In Belgium there are one million carers. Their economic value represents 22 billion euros. We've had that calculated. That's five percent of our gross national product. You make a number of promises. I therefore hope that next year I will not have to stand here again on the day of the caregiver to ask whether or not those promises have been fulfilled. I'll keep you at your word. In addition, I would also like to give you inspiring literature, by giving you my book as a gift.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u71	Minister, it is important not only in words, but also in concrete measures to support the carers. You do this in the context of agile workable work. After all, if workers have to work longer, this also applies to carers, who will therefore have to combine work and family care for a longer period of time. At the same time, I would ask that you, together with your colleagues in charge of Health, Social Affairs and Pensions, look for measures that benefit carers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u72	Mr Minister, like a lot of citizens, I read today in Latest News the quote of the union, which happens to be the socialist union, which literally says to go for damage to the economy. The ports have to be flat and they aim to damage the economy. It's not a coincidence that it's someone from the civil servants' union, which makes it even more hallucinating and shocking. After all, civil servants are at the service of the people. They must represent the public interest and they work for all of us, with taxpayers' money. Just those officials are now saying they're going to damage the economy. Who is the economy in this country? Who are they? These are people who rise up every day, take their children to day care, go to work and contribute to social security and to our economy. Furthermore, the union claims that it will not harm its citizens. However, we read in the newspapers that the train, tram and bus will be stopped, as well as in crèches, and that no garbage will be collected. So who are the big victims tomorrow, next to our economy? Those are the people, the citizens who make their contribution every day. In addition, it also makes it so shocking that statement is made in the edge of a certain climate. We are facing threat level 3 on terrorist attacks, potential Brexit and image damage. That is precisely what makes it irresponsible because of a union which is expected to take place around the table and to cooperate in the reforms that this government is undertaking. Mr Minister, here are my very specific questions. Firstly, how seriously can we still take a union that makes such statements? Secondly, the damage to ports is estimated at EUR 20 to EUR 50 million. That's two billion Belgian francs. Who's gonna pay for the damage? Who's gonna take the fall for that? Will you take action tomorrow if there's any damage?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have had several debates here on the right to strike and the right to work. I understand that everyone here recognises both the right to strike and the right to work. It is very important that when the right to strike is used effectively, this should be done in a responsible manner. If there are statements like those to which you refer, saying that one is going to stop and cause as much economic damage as possible, then this, with all due respect, is not responsible and an act of irresponsible handling of the right to strike. I say it even more clearly, we have to keep a very close eye on the proportional situation. In this context, I refer to the European Social Charter, as well as to a number of judgments of the European Court of Justice, which state that there is a right to strike, but that it should not be used so irresponsiblely that it is not proportionate. So if we threaten to shut down the ports, with actions that go on and which are irresponsible, then I think we are dealing with a very dangerous situation, then the weapon of strike is being abused. I hope that we will see the necessary responsibility with the leaders of the trade unions who are going to strike tomorrow, and that those who are still abusing the right to strike will be stopped. I hope that many within the union will distance themselves from the statement that maximum economic damage is to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u74	Mr. Secretary, you're hitting the nail on the head. That statement was made with the intention of damaging the economy. You referred to a number of judgments and you hope that tomorrow will be held accountable. I hope, above all, that if there is damage, if there is an irresponsible ceasefire, you and this government will intervene. I would also like to ask the PS, the sp.a. and the credit to whom credit is due, even though it is a sad honour, Mr Hedebouw, to call on their private militias, their trade unions to get off the streets and cooperate constructively around the table. The ADVV, your union, is aiming for economic damage and job destruction, while we, this government, are going very clearly for job creation. Look at this week's report from the Planning Bureau.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u75	Minister, I am asking this question from a concern. When I read the newspaper articles this morning, I thought I woke up in another country. The fact that a man called an emergency power station three times without getting an answer made me frown. Unfortunately, that man died on June 6th or shortly afterwards. When he first called, he hung on the watchline for over three minutes. When he called the second time, he hung on that waiting line for four minutes. The third and last time he was on the line for 44 seconds. His call wasn't answered. Unfortunately, this led to a dramatic end. Mr Minister, on 10 November 2015, the ACOD sent you a very constructive invitation from the common front to discuss the issue of emergency power stations. The ACOD has been insisting on this for months. Four more letters followed, two of which were registered by the ACOD. Until now, there was still no answer to that question. Today we have to note that the emergency power station is apparently still not working properly, especially when there are real emergencies. That was the case on June 6th. Apparently, there's still not enough staff. The recruitments stay off or last too long. Training is also too long. As a result, the situation in the workplace is really undersized, leading to stress situations. You said that you are working on a new system, in particular a kind of forwarding system, which allows the temporary transfer of calls to other emergency power stations during busy times. It's good that we're working on that. However, that can only be part of the solution. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. What steps will you take to improve staff working conditions? Do you foresee additional or faster recruitment and training, so that these emergency power stations are adequately staffed? When will you respond to the trade unions' invitation to discuss this issue? In what time is a structural solution possible? What response rates are currently in the power stations? What do you think are the targets that should be met?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Top, the events with Mr Wauters from Melsele have touched me deeply. It is a dramatic event and I would like to express my deep sympathy to the family from this chair. I've already personally transferred that to them. What happened that day? What are the facts? There was a storm in that region. Where we normally have 30 to 40 calls on such emergency power station, we suddenly had over 750 emergency calls during a six-hour period of evening until midnight. The capacity was immediately increased by 50% during those hours, but it has resulted in a number of calls not being included, resulting in the dramatic consequences for Mr Wauters. On the 112, the structural occupation is one thing, but there is also the reception at unforeseen peak moments. Some peak moments are foreseeable, others are not. That's two different things. With regard to the structural occupation of the 112, recruitment and training are under way. You are in favour of faster training, but I would particularly like to call for good training. We must, of course, ensure that people are trained as quickly as possible, but above all that they are as good as possible in terms of quality. After all, they are in a position where quality cannot be acknowledged. At unexpected peak moments we have a different problem. The word itself says it: unforeseen. One cannot suddenly turn many calltakers out of a high hat. Then the solution, which we decided long before this incident occurred, is to link all the provincial power stations together. If one of these plants is over-interviewed, the telephone calls can be immediately diverted to the other plants, the urgent points can be removed from them and urgent medical assistance can be called in. That decision has been taken and is being implemented, but unfortunately this dramatic situation has now arisen. Once again, I offer my deepest condolences to the deceased's family.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u77	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In fact, your answer to the question of technology is not enough for me. We cannot solve it only with technical adjustments in the event of an emergency. Here, too, there is a need for adequate training and the best possible training, which should also be introduced as soon as possible. I would like to point out that this morning I received the signal that, as a result of the shortage of staff, the management of emergency power stations are even considering refusing to train people. So it has to do with a shortage of staff. I would therefore like to call for sufficient staff and sufficient training, but above all for the very stressful situations in the workplace. All this must be linked to your proposals on technical aids. Finally, I would like to call on everyone not to lose a day, not an hour, not a minute, because we never want to see such facts again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u78	Mr Minister, unfortunately we do not have the final figures yet, but according to the preliminary figures, 755 people died in our traffic in 2015. Almost 15 Belgians a week have lost their lives in our traffic. It's a figure to keep an eye on. It is always dangerous to compare, but if that were to happen to us as a result of train accidents or other tragedies, then the country would scream murder and fire, and then the indignation, rightly, would be very great. I continue to struggle with the question of why the number of road victims does not lead to the same indignation. We are not alone in this as a country. More than 26 000 people died in Europe in 2015. For the first time since 2001, since the beginning of this century, there has been an increase, despite the objective of halving the number of road victims by 2020. In Europe, it was the first increase. In Belgium, 2015 was the fourth year that there was an increase. That should be enough to pull the alarm bell again. The European Transport Safety Council also called the alarm bell on Monday and pointed out that police forces in many countries are under pressure to cut traffic stakes. That is why I am addressing my question to you, Minister. Last Monday, the ESA study on alcohol in circulation was also published. This shows that 18%, or almost one in five, of our drivers got drunk behind the wheel in 2015. One in five! Similarly, only one in five drivers have undergone an alcohol check. This is a much worse result than the results of the PDO campaigns suggest. Minister, it is very important to achieve the objective set out in the government agreement to increase the number of checks to one in three per year in this legislature. You have previously stated that you want to achieve this by 2017, through the use of new technologies, pretests, but also by the extra use of men. We know that the police are under pressure, but my question is to confirm that commitment here once again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u79	Mr President, Mr Van den Bergh, the situation you have outlined is indeed serious and calls for action. I have indeed put forward the objective of increasing these controls to 420 000 breath tests on an annual basis. We would like to achieve this by 2017. The measures we take in this respect are in two areas, in particular technology and people. You referred to the police forces under pressure. I would like to tell you that, for the fourth year in a row, we have already achieved the objective of alcohol testing, despite the threat of terrorism and the heavy pressure on police forces caused by the various crises. For alcohol control, capacity is being released, but we are going to increase it. We're gonna do two cases. As far as technology is concerned, the market survey for the samplers is ongoing and the devices will be delivered in early 2017. With regard to the new breathing apparatus with the current technology, the market survey is also under way and these appliances will also be delivered in early 2017. In the OT3, the organisation table of the police, we also provide for an increase of the traffic police by 98 % full-time equivalents, specifically for the traffic police. What's the bottom line? Firstly, the use of pretests, also in regular operation. Second, collide is blowing. Thirdly, when a car is stopped by the police, not specifically for an alcohol check but in all circumstances, an alcohol test will be carried out. Finally, implementing those new and efficient devices, along with a capacity expansion of the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u80	Prime Minister, I would like to thank you in particular for your commitment. I do have a question with the 420 000 tests. I think this is the number of tests that were taken during the past BOB campaign. If we want to go to one in three checks in 2017, we need to move towards two million alcohol controls. I think the road is still long and there is still a long way to go. You have already announced a number of steps, and this is very important, especially if we are to achieve the 2020 target set in the government agreement, which is to halve the number of road deaths compared to 2010. That's gonna be a lot of work. Of course, that's not just your responsibility. It is also the responsibility of Minister De Block who will come up with an alcohol plan. That is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice who will come up with alternative sanctions. That is the responsibility of Minister Bellot, who will come up with a number of measures on alcohol. It is also the responsibility of the regions that continue to work on the rules on sensitisation. I think it's everyone's responsibility. We find that one in five drivers still gets in the car drunk, admits it in an interview and even comes to tell me in a TV newsreel. When I see that, I think that we still have a long way to go in terms of responsibility in our society. I think that we urgently need to do better.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u81	The Minister wishes to give further clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u82	Allow me to clarify that the number I mentioned is about breath tests. We are currently carrying out 1.2 million tests, including 240 000 breath tests. The objective is to get up to 2.1 million tests and to keep the number of breath tests at 20%, i.e. to make 420 000 breath tests.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u83	Thank you for that clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u84	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, since the beginning of 2013, we have been faced with the problem of Syrian fighters. Our good colleague, then MP Bart Somers, said it three years ago: "They're leaving there today, but they're coming back here, radicalized and hardened in the bloody struggle. Unfortunately, that is a very realistic finding. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the government has not been idle. We can now temporarily withdraw the identity card to make it difficult to leave. Participating in the fight abroad has also become criminal. Warriors can be removed from the population register. There's the circular on the foreign terrorist fighters, and there's a database. Nevertheless, Minister, it remains a major challenge for police and intelligence services to follow these potentially dangerous individuals well. This has recently been demonstrated by an answer to a parliamentary question. Resident checks on returned Syrian warriors leave something to be desired. That is a frightening observation. You gave the figures yourself, Minister. 450 fighters have gone abroad. In the meantime, 117 of them have returned. Surely these people should be closely monitored? It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that we live in the rule of law. We cannot simply lock up radicalised individuals without having committed facts. The burden of proof is needed to lock up returned Syrians. This does not prevent us, Minister, from doing everything we can to follow them as closely as possible. This is not only the work of the federal government, the courts and the security of the state, but also requires a very local approach. It has been said here many times, municipalities, local police and deradicalisation officials play a crucial role. Hence, Minister, the following three questions. Do you learn from the finding of poor housing controls that the cooperation of the various police and security services with local authorities can be even better at the moment? Is the exchange going smoothly? In short, is the ball played short enough? How do you see cooperation with the Länder on deradicalisation? That is what they are responsible for. Finally, do you have any news from the government regarding the announced measure that returned warriors might be followed by an anklet?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u85	Mr President, Mrs Gabriels, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the anklet is concerned, I would like to refer to my colleague, Mr Geens, who is responsible for this. About the co-operation between the federal and local government on residential cessation, the following. When the OCAD knows of someone returning from Syria, a file will of course be opened. The support services I have said on many occasions that there are seven support services and their homologs abroad are looking at possible information. The local authorities are then contacted and the information is enriched with what the local authorities know. The OCAD then prepares an individual threat analysis for that particular case. Finally, it examines the appropriate enforcement measures to be taken in that particular case in order to follow up on that person. At these different stages, local authorities are informed and are also asked to carry out home checks. That cooperation is actually going rather smoothly. You are undoubtedly referring to the article in Today's Time, but that is not entirely correct. Since February of this year, Home Affairs officials have been assisting local authorities in the registration and to check whether home checks are effective. As far as cooperation with the sub-areas is concerned, the Inter-Ministerial Conference is also active there. We have drawn up the National Security Plan together with the Regions and the Communities. They are also involved in the Plan-R, with regard to radicalisation, so that their responsibility is clear. However, everything can always be better, so the operation is just continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u86	Minister, I am glad that you are doing everything you can, together with your services and the other authorities, to achieve this important point. I'll ask your colleague about the ankle bracelets. In any case, for us and, of course, for everyone, the succession of radical individuals and Syrian fighters is a difficult, but important and crucial task. It is certainly not enough to follow these people at a distance; here we need a hard approach and a fine-meshed net from which no fish can escape. Then they can be accompanied, possibly deradicalized. Future recommendations on this subject, made in the Committee of Inquiry, may provide additional guidance. In any case, strict housing control and priority for municipalities is very important in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u87	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this week an agreement was reached on the gradual closure of wing C of Forest prison. I'm glad. I have repeatedly denounced the conditions of imprisonment in this prison. As you know, the situation here is indecent and untenable, both in terms of conditions of detention and work and in terms of safety and hygiene, as evidenced by numerous reports from the competent authorities and the numerous convictions to which Belgium has been subjected. Old buildings and sanitary conditions no longer allow staff or inmates to work there and live there with dignity. At the end of the meeting with the mayor of Forest, Mr Ghyssels, it appears that the population of the prison will be reduced from 344 to 180 prisoners by 31 October 2016. The prison will be emptied up to 50 prisoners per month. This agreement must of course be welcomed, since it will improve the conditions of detention and working conditions, as well as security in the prison, even though I regret that it took so long to achieve this. Minister, can you give us an outline? What are the steps? What work will be undertaken? How do you plan to organize the departures from the prison? Do you simply intend to make transfers from this prison to another or do you envisage releases? There was also talk of reducing the capacity of psychiatric annexes. Where will the persons concerned be transferred?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u88	Mr President, Mrs Özen, it is true that after an interview I had with the mayor of Forest, I undertook to gradually close wing C of the Forest prison. First of all, I would like to tell you that, for the time being, there are 388 prisoners in the prison. Only a few years ago, there were still 700. I already closed the D wing last year. Now, in four months, we'll close wing C. As far as the future is concerned, the psychiatric annex will be maintained with more secure access for firefighters, but the internees will no longer be in this annex. There will be other inmates. The internees will be transferred either to Saint-Gilles prison or to a specialized institution. As you know, gradually, following the decisions taken during the previous legislature and during this legislature, we evacuated or transferred 500 internees from prisons. As far as the other works are concerned, we will replace two large doors to make them more fire-resistant. The detainees and the orders that are transferred from wing C will either be transferred to the prison of Saint-Gilles when it comes to orders, but we will also transfer to the north and south of the detainees of Saint-Gilles. Saint-Gilles will therefore become more of a stopping house, but not exclusively. The remaining wings, A and B, will each contain approximately 45 prisoners and the psychiatric annex maximum 75. We count on a total population of 180 prisoners from 1 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u89	Minister, thank you for your answer. As I said in my question, we are looking forward to the change. However, one slip should not occur from one prison to another. I have not heard from your mouth the will to make maximum use of alternative punishments. Electronic surveillance, autonomous work sentences are solutions that help to reduce the congestion of our prison system. We also look forward to your masterplan. This week, in the Committee on Justice, we decided to have a debate on this from October. We hope that there will be even more changes and that the problem will not be deferred to other prisons, because we must also take into account the return of the prisoners from Tilburg.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u90	Mr President, Minister, after setting the prisons on fire, fire at the courthouses, you are going after the press. In 2005 – at the time, Ms. Onkelinx was Minister of Justice – Mr. Maingain tabled a bill on the protection of journalistic sources, which was passed on April 7, 2005. Following a number of court and court decisions, we have tried to balance the just, necessary and adequate protection of journalists' sources with the necessary security needs. The law has been laid down. An exception has even been made. Thus, in the event of information that prevents the commission of offences in the event of a serious threat to physical integrity, it is provided that the confidentiality of the sources may be lifted. This is a balance between law and obligations, between freedom of the press and citizens' right to information and security. Finally, I wonder what we can be afraid of. According to the press release, there may be leaks involving entire sections of terrorists. It is further suggested that four ministers and members of their entourage were placed under protection and that this should be kept confidential. I wonder why I have this fear. The same applies to renewal. Moreover, some of those who are under protection – I remind you of the CIC in Belgium, not so long ago – do not hesitate to boast about it. If you want to touch this law that clearly reflects a balance, a balance that cannot be put in jeopardy since the repressions for offences exist, you use a cannon to kill a fly. According to one government source, the penalties would be extended to justify specific methods of research such as listening. That would mean that there will be no longer any secret from the sources. In addition, the authorization validated by the BIM commission to lift professional secrecy by the intelligence services would be terminated without control. So there are fears. Minister, do you intend to change the exceptions that protect the confidentiality of sources? If so, what changes would be considered? What is the extent of the difficulties that intelligence services would face and that would justify the changes? Do you intend to expand methods to investigate leaks in the press? Do you not consider that while a small part of the leaks in the press may be regrettable, most of them pursue a legitimate purpose of information? In general, do you not fear a disproportion between the objectives you pursue and the resulting violations of journalists' rights?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u91	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of the week the press revealed the protection of certain members of the government as well as certain members of their families. Should this information be disclosed or not? Was it not likely to put these people at greater risk or not? The issue can be opened and debated infinitely. However, as a result of these revelations, Minister, you have announced a desire to strengthen the penalties for breach of professional secrecy. My questions today are, therefore, about a willingness to clarify your remarks to know the direction in which you wish to move to this day. Indeed, if one allows the expansion of specific research methods, this implies the possibility of telephone listening and computer tracing. Given the emotion of the journalistic world, but not only, because there are other sources of professional secrecy to be guaranteed and preserved, it is important to know today whether we are touching all professional secrets or very special professional secrets. The one that Mr. Massin has just mentioned, organized by a 2005 law, is trying to strike a balance between the need for public information and the guarantee of public safety. This balance is probably sometimes difficult to find, if not often. In any case, that law had the will to ensure that balance. My first question in this regard is what professional secrecy we are talking about. What strengthening are we talking about? Will the specific methods of research apply to this type of sentencing? That's my first question. The second question concerns the possibility for the secret services to be able, at some point, to denounce the fact that journalists claiming to be journalists would not be. In this regard, there is a danger, because this can be a matter of espionage or endangerment by our State. What are your intentions in the context of what is a draft bill to date?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u92	Mrs Fonck, Mr Massin, Mr Goffin, first of all, know that the fact that certain information was prematurely disclosed by the press on Saturday morning has nothing to do with the preliminary drafts that I had previously fed on professional secrecy. Please also know that I have no intention of setting the press on fire as Mr Massin suggested. For almost a year, professional secrecy, as we know in article 458 of the Criminal Code, has not always been sufficiently punished. All kinds of professional professions, nurses, lawyers, doctors, magistrates, are covered by professional secrecy and the maximum penalty is six months. We all believe that professional ethics is very important. The Penal Code could help sanction that ethics, and there would therefore be a bill by Mr. Terwingen to take that matter into consideration. In the Committee on Terrorism, chaired by Mr Metsu, I spoke about the issue of shared secrecy. It's not new. In this connection too, Mr Terwingen's proposal contains some interesting things. The Attorney General and his college asked me, three months ago, to insert an article in Bill BOM, special investigative means to render, if necessary, section 90ter of the Code of Criminal Investigation as regards the listening applicable to violations of professional secrecy. The government still has to decide whether or not, in a preliminary draft which will be submitted to the Council of State, the Justice Committee and Parliament, this Rule 90ter will be extended for any breach of professional secrecy or only for certain violations. Clearly, an increase in the sentence is in vain without a useful investigation. Thirdly, three or four months ago, the government sent a draft bill on BIM methods, State Security. In this regard, as regards special means of information, there is equal treatment between the doctor, the lawyer and the journalist. This, of course, remains the case. This means that any means of investigation used, any means of information concerning a journalist must always be the subject of a decision of the BIM commission. You know that very well. It consists of an investigating judge, a prosecutor's magistrate and a judge of the seat, three judges who will have to judge whether or not these special means of information are available against a journalist. The only thing foreseen in this preliminary draft, which has been under consideration for several months in the Council of State, is that, if necessary, the BIM commission, at the request of the intelligence service, could decide - not provisionally or before saying right - that a particular journalist, in case of espionage, could in relation to the BIM legislation and not in relation to the professional card (there is no withdrawal of the status of journalist), get to say: "Listen, sir, that's enough now, we no longer consider you a journalist under BIM legislation." All of this to tell you that the law of 2005, in all the preliminary projects referred to, is in no way intended. Know, once again, that reason is not there or in the events of Saturday morning. However, the press has echoed this because this preliminary draft exists and I cannot deny its existence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u93	Minister, we will judge on a piecemeal basis. This would not be the first time that a bill passed at first reading in the Council of Ministers, would then be amended and after that, despite the Minister's statements, would still be amended. We've gagged justice or we're busy doing it. Tomorrow, don't mess with the press, because otherwise we can no longer teach Hungary or Poland democracy lessons, because we will really be a rogue state!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u94	Minister, thank you for your clarification. Like you, the MR is extremely attentive to the balance that must be kept between the secrecy of the sources, the protection of the journalist, freedom of the press. It is the guarantee of a real democracy, but also of the security of all. In order to maintain this balance, as in other areas, consultation and dialogue will have to be maintained. Finally, Minister, this afternoon our group will table a motion for a resolution to ensure the protection of journalists around the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u95	Mr. Secretary, the Optima file is known to everyone. There is an atmosphere of scandalitis and every day there is something new. However, I do not want to talk about that today. I actually want to talk about the future and about the victims, the bankruptcy itself. After all, you know that there are a lot of municipal authorities there. That has grown historically and happened in good faith. The usual Ethias accounts back then have become Optima accounts. Those accounts have taxpayers' money on them. Tax money is people's money, which is often called upon to do so. More importantly, however, these municipalities have now been told that they are not protected by the Guarantee Fund. In other words, the proper handling of this bankruptcy will be very important for the victims, especially for the municipalities. Therefore, the role of an independent curator is crucial. Minister, like everyone else, you will have read: "Curator Optima" is close to the clan-Piqueur. Mr. Secretary, when I read this, I get worried. I am not only worried about the municipal authorities and the victims, but also about the justice system. In this way, after all, it is the court of commerce that appoints a curator, after all, justice also comes in an annoying way. Minister, I believe that we should not allow the judiciary to be sucked into a dossier and a story that is so unfresh enough. Hence my questions. Firstly, can you explain, within the scope of the separation of powers, of course, the decision of the court of commerce appointing this curator? Can you confirm that the curator has pre-reported as required by law...... that there might have been a appearance of partiality? After all, he was an employee at Piqueur's law firm. Did he report that, and did the court test that, too? Secondly, and more importantly, Minister, what can the victims do now? They must be troubled by this message. Is this appearance of partiality sufficiently serious to ask the curator to resign, of course, regardless of the deontological questions? What can you recommend to the injured and the municipal authorities in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u96	Mrs De Wit, you suggested it yourself, so you will understand that I do not wish to comment at all on the judicial decision on this issue. I think I know that not one but three curators have been appointed. I'd like to give you that. A curator is usually a lawyer chosen from a list drawn up by the general meeting of the court of commerce and who must act in the interests of the common creditors. It is therefore obvious that Article 30 et seq. the bankruptcy law must be applied and that, as soon as there is a appearance of partiality or has previously been worked for the bankrupt or the directors and managers of the bankrupt, either by the curator himself or by one of his associates, employees etc., he must inform the chairman and the chairman of the bankruptcy. If, in the first instance, the chairman does not consider that independence is not there, he may, as you rightly said, always replace him at any time, at the request of an interested party or the lawyer himself. That is an act of justice, which means that the right of defence and the right of contradiction of the curator must be respected. On this point, therefore, interested parties have the right to do what they consider appropriate, if I read Article 30 correctly. The Codex Deontology of the Order of Flemish Balies also provides that the judicial officer is kept to the rules on conflict of interest, such as the lawyer himself. I assume you already knew all that, but I wanted to strengthen your words. I hope that the appropriate action will be taken where appropriate and if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u97	Minister, you confirm that the resignation of the curator can be requested by those involved, including by the municipalities. Maybe they should do the best they can. You yourself said that there are three curators and that it is only one of them, but the Guarantee Fund is just referring the municipalities to that particular curator. That can well be done, because the judiciary must not only be impartial and independent in the facts, but also in the perception. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about independence and perception, I do not think it is a good signal that a mayor himself is calling directly to a King's Attorney to ask for an investigation into himself, to exonerate himself. What impression does this give of politics and of justice? Minister, an ordinary citizen does not have a direct line to a prosecutor, and so it should be.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u98	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to say that I do not really understand it anymore. On the one hand, we must agree with you that we are faced every week with violations of a judicial investigation that involves strategic information in the media, with all the associated consequences. On the other hand, I note, together with you, that once again, when reading newspapers, in a file prosecuting a paedophile teacher, the public prosecutor fails to inform the educational institution. Minister, it seems as if one should speak when one should remain silent and one should remain silent when one should speak more effectively. If you ask me or my group, neither can. In cases of sexual abuse, the law is clear. Indeed, the 2012 law allows the public prosecutor to notify the disciplinary authorities so that they can take the appropriate preventive measures. There can also be no discussion as to the interpretation of the law. A very clear circular has been sent to your predecessor, Mrs Turtelboom, who clearly states in what cases, namely the seriousness of the facts and the state of the investigation, the educational institution is being informed or not. In this dossier we are talking very clearly about serious facts: more than 14 000 images of sexual abuse with minors. As far as the state of the investigation is concerned, once the search has been carried out, I do not see what arguments the court could cite in order not to report this. My questions are therefore logical and obvious, I think. Minister, I have read that you are quite right to be outraged when a judicial investigation is being violated. Are you equally indignant when the parole board fails to notify in cases of sexual abuse? Do you still support the 2012 law and the 2014 circular that allows the public prosecutor to notify the educational institution? If that is the case, Minister, can and will you and will you effectively remind the public prosecutors of that letter?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u99	Mr President, Mrs Van Cauter, of course I still support the law of 2012 and Article 1380 of the Judicial Code, as well as circular 2014/8, in which Mr Turtelboom has beautifully listed all of this, together with the College of Attorneys General. It may be disclosed in the light of the importance of the investigation, the seriousness of the facts, the state of the investigation and the relationship between the defendant's appeal and the facts. In this case, I understand that the parquet of West Flanders was of the opinion that it was not appropriate in this case. As you know, a Minister of Justice is not free to interfere in individual cases in the course of the investigation, but he is responsible for criminal policy together with the College of Attorneys General. To this end, I took the opportunity to raise this point at the meeting of the Attorney General with the Communities on 2 July. As you know, since the sixth state reform, the College has met regularly with the Ministers-Presidents of the Communities. You know that the facts on which the accused is accused are very dear to the government in the coalition agreement, especially in view of the upbringing of our children. It therefore seemed justified to question this matter with the College of Attorneys General in the light of the circular and the law to which you refer. Mrs Van Cauter, I hope that I have been able to respond to your satisfaction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u100	Mr President, it seems that we share the same indignation. In the context of the fight against sexual abuse, I hope that you will not only stand behind the letter and the law, but that you will also urge the prosecutors to consider it appropriate in criminal policy that a report in the event of sexual abuse may be the only way forward. Silence serves only the perpetrators, not the victims. We are counting on you to insist in the public prosecutors that they put the opportunity of combating sexual crime first.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u101	Mr President, Madam Minister, you said no later than yesterday that you did not want to recognize the profession of psychomotrician/psychomotrician on the pretext that psychomotricity goes hand in hand with kinesitherapy. That is true for the north of the country, but it is not true for the south of the country. At present, about 1,000 young students are taking a course and 300 students have already graduated from psychomotrician. This profession is not new; it has existed since 2012, if I refer to what I have read, and things have been prepared for a number of years. This profession exists in France, Switzerland and Denmark as such. The paramedical profession of psychomotrician exists alongside that of the occupational therapist, the logopede and the physiotherapist. Minister, how do you justify this decision not to take account of Francophone reality? Have you met the Belgian Professional Union of Francophone Psychomotricians? Have you had any contact with the Minister of Higher Education, Mr Marcourt, on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u102	Mr President, Madam Minister, we are talking here about the future of a great many people. I mean psychomotor students, graduates who already practice in services such as nursing homes, mental health services, services for people with disabilities. These persons are legally and even financially recognized on the paramedical scale. I have already questioned you several times on this issue in recent years. We are now at a crucial moment. Indeed, not recognizing that this is a paramedical profession is tantamount to leading the future of all these people. I would like to remind you of a few points. There is, indeed, a very different approach in the North than in the South. In the North, it is an act performed by physiotherapists, occupational therapists or logopedes. In the South, it is a competence unique to psychomotricians, as is practiced in Switzerland or France. A professional union has existed in Belgium since 1989 and training in higher education since 1980, with, in recent years, training as a paramedical bachelor in psychomotorism, baccalaureate+3, as European references in this field. This training has also been validated by the Higher Council for Paramedical Education, and hence by colleagues in the National Council. Finally, the last element that seems interesting to me is the fact that, on the INAMI website, there is explicit reference to psychomotority by distinguishing it very clearly from kinesitherapy and occupational therapy. Minister, what is your position on this issue? I would like a clear answer, because many people depend on it. Your responsibility as Minister of Public Health is to find solutions that take into account both the reality of the country's North and that of the South.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u103	Ms Caprasse and Ms Fonck, in 2012, Minister Onkelinx had asked the National Council of Paramedical Professions to analyse the opportunities related to psychometry as a care profession. In other words, it was a request for an opinion on the possibility of including psychomotorists in the list of paramedical professions. This list is included in the Royal Decree of 2 July 1999. In 2013, the Council issued a first opinion proposing not to add this profession to the list of paramedical professions. This negative opinion has therefore already been known for three years. The continuation of the opinion procedure concerning the detailed description of the paramedical professional qualifications already recognised was delayed since the Council had to be recomposed. At the first meeting following this recomposition, the Committee discussed the issue at the beginning of June. It found that the acts claimed by psychomotricians come from the competences of other specializations: kinesitherapy but also paramedical professions such as logopedia, occupational therapy and soon clinical orthopedagogy. Consideration should be given to the fact that these are diagnostic and therapeutic activities and that there is always a need to ensure patient safety. The area of care targeted by psychomotricians requires inter- and trans-disciplinary interaction between physicians, physiotherapists, mental health care professionals and paramedics. It is therefore a form of interdisciplinary treatment and specialization. Psychomotorists, on the other hand, may be active outside the scope of the Act on the Exercise of Health Care Professions. These include, for example, acts of agony in children who do not have developmental disorders. This type of activity is part of the field of education, well-being and assistance to people, which is reflected in the powers of the Communities. This topic was also discussed in the Working Group on Health Care Professions at the Interdepartmental Conference on Care Professions. My conclusion: I look forward to receiving the validated opinion of the National Council of Paramedical Professions and I will not fail to communicate my final decision, after analysis, to the minister concerned, namely Mr Marcourt, who is in charge of Public Health and Education.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u104	Minister, I hear that this is not yet entirely final. From what you say, there may still be hope that you recognize the profession of psychomotrician. That is, in any case, what I really want for this group of paramedics. I also think that we should not only draw inspiration from what is happening in the north of the country, but also take account of the French-speaking reality. It's really important. I would also like to ask the MR colleagues what they think. We didn't hear anyone from the MR deliver an opinion. You're still involved. You certainly have psychomotricians in your party who lose recognition of their profession by Mrs De Block's decision. I would like to conclude with a small example, Madam Minister. A concrete example. In a school, a little girl has mutism. She does not speak or connect with anyone, she is completely closed to the world around her. Yet she has fine intelligence, she is neither physically disabled nor mentally disabled. She was placed in special education because she was unable to attend regular education. He's a psychomotrician who pulled him out of his mutism problem. Psychomotorists have an entirely different approach than the one in the north of the country. May you, minister, inspire yourself from what is happening in the south of the country, where there are also good things, as in the north, at times.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u105	Madam Minister, I think you have not dared to give a clear position here. You have, on the other hand, strongly relayed some of the arguments, those that are most appropriate to you, as to the reality of the northern part of the country. Can I repeat here that, with regard to the quality and safety of the patient, these psychomotricians have been trained as part of a paramedical bachelor's degree in psychomotricity which corresponds to the European pattern? I'm trying to push you a little further. I propose a solution that will allow you to take into account the reality of each other. You could give psychomotority a dual status, recognizing it both as a paramedical profession but also as a special qualification for practitioners such as physiotherapists or occupational therapists. This would allow you to find a solution that fits the reality of the country's North and South, while being compatible with the European directive and European law. Finally, this would allow you to serve as Minister of Public Health. In this case, what is lacking is political will. And this political will, it is your responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u106	Mr President, Madam Minister, I have read from this week's press about your media release at which you mentioned that plastic bags, in particular, will now have to be paid in order to reduce or limit their environmental impact. The Flemish Minister of the Environment, Mrs Schauvliege, said that she had fallen from her chair and heard this announcement. Why? When you met her on April 26, you suggested that you would not take any initiative as the Regions aim to ban plastic bags. His colleagues, Walloon and Brussels, are equally surprised. As a reminder, a federal environmental assessment existed in the country until 2014. This contribution was levied, in particular, on plastic bags and cups. In addition, your government's agreement provided for the removal of the environmental assessment, which was done through the December 2014 catch-all law. You justified this deletion by citing the fact that the objective of this levy was supposedly achieved and that the behaviour of producers and consumers had changed, that they had adopted more environmentally friendly consumption patterns. This is reflected in the text of the explanatory memorandum to the Program Act. Admit that the consumer-citizen is in a complete fog, Madam Minister. As a result of your statement, the only thing he is holding back is that he will be entitled to a new consumption tax, which can be questioned as to its deterrent nature. Minister, in 2014, the government stated that the behavioral change had been achieved in the head of citizens. So you no longer share this finding today. On what elements did you use at the time to make this observation? How are you going to make these bags pay and make consumers aware? What specific mechanism will be used? Is there already a government agreement on this matter? Has the Minister of the Economy responsible for consumer protection agreed on this point?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u107	Mr President, Mr de Lamotte, thank you for your question. First of all, I would like to clarify the proposals that I have actually communicated. They're two orders. They include a minimum price for plastic box bags and a ban on plastic bags of less than 50 microns that are not "Compost home". As the Federal Minister for the Environment responsible for placing products on the market and setting prices, my aim is to standardise legislation on this subject in Belgium, but also to encourage the use of reusable bags. Already in 2004, the Fedis voluntarily launched the reusable plastic bag at the cash register, which significantly reduced the use of disposable plastic bags in our shops. But we want to go further, in connection with a European directive which is precisely asking us to comply with certain requirements. We have to do this by November 2016. It was in this context – as you recalled – that I met with representatives of the Flemish Region, the Walloon Region and the Brussels Region at the beginning of our work (called the "round table") on 26 April with representatives of the associations and representatives of the Ministers Borsus and Peeters. I would like to point out that we all have an interest in reducing our consumption of bags, which is really damaging to the environment. I'm not just talking about plastic bags, I'm talking about paper bags. This is why the ban on light plastic box bags that are not "Compost home" and a deterrent price of several tens of cents for box bags are an appropriate response to the value of natural resources. This leads to an interesting "shift bag" since it makes the consumer aware – if the deterrent price is also charged on paper bags – to change his behaviour and to take into account the fact that all these bags harm our environment. In any case, there will be a continuation of the dialogue. We see each other on July 6, 2016, as you certainly know. I absolutely do not want to maintain a sterile policy in this area. I really want to ensure that we respect environmental issues together. I conclude by pointing out that the sector welcomes these proposals because, again this afternoon, you will surely have seen it, a Belga communiqué from Federplast, the federation of plastic producers, welcomes these proposals very positively.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u108	Minister, the clarity on this issue is not obvious and your expression is not clear. It would be easier if we really went towards a ban and that the consultation you announced with the Regions could be done in the best possible way. I fear fog and smoke to avoid deciding. Having learned to practice you a little in some cases, I'm afraid you're ceding to the lobbies. In this case, there are significant tensions. Knowing you, I am very attentive to this event. I mean, you didn't mention plastic cups. They were in the environmental assessment, but we can't find them anymore. I'm being challenged by the situation of non-reaction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, many of you have been too long. Some of the answers were also too long. If we want to go to the European system, where the flow is cut, then we must continue in this way, because then there will be no other solution. This brings us to the end of the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u110	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 22 June 2016, I propose that you enter on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the draft law implementing Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council 98/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 January 2013 on the placing on the market and use of explosives precursors, Nos 1870/1 to 4; - the draft law amending the Law of 5 August 1978 on economic and budgetary reforms relating to automatic retirement after days of absence due to illness, Nos 1880/1 and 2. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 22 June 2016, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the draft law implementing Regulation (EU) No 98/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 January 2013 on the marketing and use of explosives precursors, Nos. 1870/1 to 4; - the draft law amending the law of 5 August 1978 on economic and budgetary reforms with regard to the compulsory retirement after days of absence due to illness, Nos. 1880/1 and 2. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u111	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Olivier Chastel, Denis Ducrame, Sabien Lahaye-Battheu, Els Van Hoof, Gwenaëlle Grovonius, Georges Dallemagne, Kattrin Jadin, Richard Miller, Sybille de Coster-Bauchau.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u112	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1134/14) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1134/14) The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u113	I will refer to my written report, but I still want to clarify an important point. This is the first time in the history of this Parliament that a resolution has been built with the entire commission. The work was done in an excellent and constructive atmosphere and resulted in an equally excellent result thanks to the cooperation between the various collaborators and the Commissioners themselves. It's good to see you. As for the substance, I will speak for my group later in the general discussion. I would like to congratulate Mr Flahaux on this excellent initiative and this fine result!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u114	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, a human being, in order to build himself, needs a lot of things, including a home, loving parents, a context of education, etc. But he also needs not to be ostracized throughout his life or for much of it. Today, however, this is still the case of homosexuals in the world. This is the case for the majority of the inhabitants of this planet, even if it no longer concerns a majority of countries. The motion for a resolution on the decriminalization of homosexuality that I am carrying with my colleagues Olivier Chastel, Denis Ducrame, Sabine Lahaye-Battheu, Els Van Hoof, Gwenaëlle Grovonius, Georges Dallemagne, Kattrin Jadin, Richard Miller and Sybille de Coster-Bauchau are participating in this movement to change the horizons. The joint signature of deputies representing the various political and linguistic landscapes shows, if necessary, both the community of views in our country – and it is happy, we are a flagship country on the subject of LGBTQI rights – but also the awareness that while in Belgium these rights have the force of law, unfortunately it is not the same everywhere. Even where these rights are recognized at the legislative level, it is necessary to make further progress in the recognition and respect of these rights by the whole social body. Indeed, as I have just said, including in countries where rights are recognized, LGBTQI are still too often victims of rejection, insult, assault and murder. We saw it at home, with the assassination of Ihsane Jarfi a few years ago, which led us to tighten the penalties for homophobic crimes. We still see him with attacks, even in the street, of transgender people being stabbed, as was the case again recently in Etterbeek, or with other attacks going up to the murder, as in Brussels just a few weeks ago. We have also, alas, seen it, terrified, in Orlando, where 49 people were killed by a man whose investigation will tell us whether it was his personal rejection of LGBTQI or his adherence to the ideas of the Nazislamists who armed his arm. We also saw, during funerals, anti-gay groups coming to demonstrate their rejection. We must not hide our face, the rights of gays are acquired in the United States, but recently and they are far from being exercised in their fullness. Moreover, they are still the object of a struggle on the part of the American neo-conservatives who find themselves in the Tea Party and would like to push back legislation in this area. In other parts of the world, while LGBTQI rights have improved since, some fifteen years ago, about seventeen and one country had decriminalized homosexuality and today we are one hundred and fourteen, I would remind you that there are about two hundred countries in the world. This means that there is still a long way to go, not necessarily in terms of the acceptance of homosexuality, but simply in terms of its decriminalization. In some countries, laws inherited from the colonial era, which have fallen into disuse in our country, have been re-enforced and plunge LGBTQI into hiding and fear, confronting them with verbal and physical violence, leading them into prison, condemning them to death. I recall the event that took place recently in Morocco. Two homosexuals who were in their apartment saw a number of young people coming home, who took them out of their homes, beat them up and lynched them on the street. In the end, the Moroccan court sentenced the victims, not the aggressors. That's to tell you how long the way is still long. It is therefore necessary to move forward in the fight for the decriminalization of homosexuality, in the wake of the first progress made in 2008, where the United Nations has, for the first time, addressed the issue in these terms. On this occasion, and this surprises us as Belgians, a counter-declaration was adopted by 57 states, which associated homosexuality, bestiality, incest and zoophilia, which still shows the way to true equality of law among all human beings. Our proposal therefore calls on the government to act actively to decriminalize homosexuality, not in Belgium where it is done, but throughout the world, and to combat discrimination against LGBTQI in all its forms. With this proposal, we call on Belgium to act in this direction within the framework of its development cooperation policy, towards the partner countries, in the framework of bilateral foreign policy and within the European Union. Belgium, in paragraph 2 of Article 11 of the Law of 19 March 2013 on Development Cooperation, highlights the gender dimension and the equal rights of men and women in society. Belgian foreign policy promotes the same values. This resolution therefore calls for Belgian cooperation and development policy and foreign policy to continue first of all the dialogue on gender identity and sexual orientation, in order to put an end to discrimination; secondly, to make the fight against all discrimination against LGBTQI a priority in all bilateral relations with all countries and in all international bodies; invites other EU Member States to integrate the issue of LGBTQI rights into their relations with their partners; and finally, to include this issue on the agenda of the meetings of the various European bodies and other relevant international institutions, and to ensure that those responsible for monitoring respect for human rights ensure that these rights are respected for LGBTQI. Finally, they must incorporate actions for LGBTQI rights into the gender and development action plan. Education programmes must, of course, raise awareness among the populations of partner countries on this issue of combating stereotypes in education, culture, sport, research, and help partner countries implement an active policy to safeguard all LGBTQI rights. There is also, of course, a need for change in the health policy situation. Human rights defenders and NGOs must also be protected and, whenever there are court decisions based on sexual orientation and gender identity, those that do not respect such sexual orientation must be highlighted and condemned. We must also call for work within the Human Rights Council, of which Belgium is once again a member, to universally decriminalize homosexuality. It is clear that even within LGBTQI, there is the particular transgender sector. In this area, even Belgium is still working on a project. In many countries, even those that have already decriminalized homosexuality, there is still much work to be done, to the point that transsexualism is still on the list of mental illnesses of the World Health Organization. Each of the Members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe must be able, on an individual basis, to designate LGBTQI rights as a cross-cutting priority for the defence of human rights and to defend these rights in case of proven infringement in member countries. As we have seen recently in Istanbul, repression has been particularly violent during a pride. During the debates in committee, as Mr Hellings rightly said, I stress the great consensus in which we have been able to work. A series of amendments by the majority and the opposition were discussed and widely adopted. It is a great pride to have been able to reach a unanimous vote on this resolution in committee. Beyond the vote on this resolution, it is important that we can take this resolution as a road map for both Members of Parliament and federal, regional and community ministers. Ladies and gentlemen, with this text, which I consider ambitious and courageous, I hope that we will be able to relaunch the still too long march for equality of rights and total non-discrimination in terms of identity and sexual orientation, so that everyone can live without being stigmatized because of their gender identity, sex and sexual orientation. Because after all, whether we are gay or not, we are all human beings and we all have the same rights to develop in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u115	Mr President, I will intervene briefly from my bank, because Mr Flahaux has already explained in detail what this resolution stands for. The resolution aims to remove homosexuality from criminal law all over the world. In particular, it is a request to the government to raise awareness and assist our partner countries in the context of development cooperation. It is also a request for an international convention to be drawn up within the framework of our foreign policy which prohibits discrimination based on sexual orientation, preference or identity. Mr Flahaux's text was a very good starting point and was supplemented by constructive amendments from both the majority and the opposition to the text that is now before us. As the rapporteur, Mr Hellings, has just said, the text was adopted unanimously in committee. The N-VA Group will therefore once again support this resolution today. Even though it is now a little later than the symbolic day against homophobia and transphobia, it remains an important signal that we will adopt this resolution today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u116	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Gay Pride is banned in Istanbul for security reasons, it is threatened with a bloodbath in Kiev by ultra-nationalist movements; there has recently been this attack in this LGBTQI club in Orlando, which has caused 49 deaths and 53 injuries. Uganda, Russia have anti-gay laws, etc. Imprisonment for homosexuality is practised in many countries. We must not forget, quite simply, the ordinary homophobia that occurs on the street or on social networks. The list of violations of LGBTQI's moral and physical integrity rights in Belgium, Europe and the world could, unfortunately, be longer. Why? By refusing the simple right to love, whatever its sexual orientation! The fight against homophobia, in its daily or legal expressions, must remain a political priority of our country, including in our diplomacy and development cooperation policies. Let us be clear: the resolution we are discussing today cannot be the miracle response to the facts I have just stated! But could such a text only be discussed in the plenary of the Russian Duma? We know the answer! I am therefore proud to live in a country where the House of Representatives is taking on a subject of cruel news. For homosexuality has remained a taboo in many countries; we must not go far to see how whole this taboo remains within the European Union itself. Let us think, for example, of the mayor of Vilnius who, in 2008, refused that the truck of the European campaign "For diversity, against discrimination" would stop in his city. In 2005, Lech Kacsynski, then Mayor of Warsaw, banned Gay Pride in his city. The exacerbated conservatism of many European countries is a danger to our common project. We also remember the debates in France about marriage for all, which our country, on the other hand, adopted under the rainbow government in a much more serene way. For my group, before looking at the international issue, it was also up to the Belgian members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to bring this debate within this institution which is the guardian of the European Charter of Human Rights. By adopting my group's amendment to that effect, the text today calls on our colleagues to bring LGBTQI rights individually as a cross-cutting priority in the defence of human rights, but also on the Belgian delegation to take the necessary action in this Assembly in case of a proven violation of LGBTQI rights in one of its member countries. Far from the 47 member states of the Council of Europe, in general, the long road to the end of all discrimination has not been completed, particularly in partner countries of Belgian development cooperation. I would like to mention, in particular, the case of Uganda, which is of particular concern. This text therefore requires, and I will be particularly attentive to it, to include in the action plan on gender mainstreaming in Belgian development cooperation a series of actions relating to LGBTQI rights. The same applies to the priority to be given by Belgian diplomacy, both in our bilateral and multilateral relations. The aim is to integrate this aspect fully into the theme "human rights" of the political dialogue maintained by Belgian diplomacy in its diplomatic relations with its partners, but also in international forums, so that the decriminalisation of homosexuality is a fact throughout the world. Belgium, as one of the few countries in which homosexuals enjoy the same rights as heterosexuals, must be active, a driving force in the defence of LGBTQI rights. In the 21st century, such discrimination based on sexual orientation is unacceptable. Since discrimination knows no borders, our fight must also ignore it. I sincerely believe in the internationalism of this fight against discrimination. It is not enough to think that rights are acquired in Belgium and that this is enough. This fight, since it is indeed a fight, is therefore not over, given the absence, to date, of a treaty prohibiting any form of discrimination based on sexual orientation, preference or identity. The N-VA objected in committee to such a treaty specific to LGBTQI which the PS nevertheless considers essential. The debate in Belgium is therefore not closed either. Finally, I would like to end my speech by thanking my colleague, Jean-Jacques Flahaux, who has offered to co-sign this text. And I welcome the fact that a number of Socialist amendments aimed at strengthening its operative part have been adopted by the majority in committee and are now included in the text under consideration.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u117	Mr President, the resolution on depenalisation of homosexuality is urgently needed. This was demonstrated by the terrible events in Orlando and, subsequently, in Istanbul, where the gay pride was not allowed to be organized and the participants who still showed up were tackled hard by the security services. Internationally, homosexuality is punishable in 80 countries, including Uganda, a partner country of Belgian Development Cooperation. In Russia, homosexual propaganda is banned. It is therefore necessary that this resolution denounces the criminality in those 80 countries and calls for our foreign policy to put equality of rights first for the Igbtqi people. Belgium must remain a precursor. We are a forerunner today, because we have the second place on the 2016 rainbow index. A study by the University of Ghent shows that we are fourth in the area of non-discriminatory legislation. Today, too, our government is at work. Together with the Minister of Justice and the Secretary of State for Combating Poverty, legislation on transsexuality is under way today. This resolution is necessary in order to carry out our strong position abroad. We can play a leading role in this. That is why my group fully supports this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u118	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, not only our domestic policy but also our foreign policy must aim to end discrimination against Igbtqifs. The question of continuing and strengthening dialogue on sexual identity, orientation and preference worldwide therefore bears our full co-operation. All over the world, homosexual men and women are victims of human rights violations. These violations range from subtle discrimination to imprisonment and torture. In almost half of all countries in the world, homosexuality is punishable. In 2009, the international gay rights organisation ILGA issued a report that reported that homosexuality is illegal in 80 countries. In five countries there is even the death penalty, namely Iran, Mauritania, Sudan, Saudi Arabia and Yemen. This also applies to parts of Nigeria and Somalia. There is often very little known about the persecution and discrimination of homosexuals outside the West. In many countries in Africa, Asia and the Middle East, homosexuality is hardly accepted and persecution is not perceived as a violation of human rights. That is why it is very important for us to include the rights of Holebisexuals and Gender Variant Persons in negotiations and contacts with countries where Holebisexuality is still a criminal offence or where Igbtqisexuals are still being prosecuted. Belgium has several instruments to combat violence against homosexuals. Through our development cooperation we can develop programmes in Algeria, Benin, Burundi, Morocco, Mozambique, Uganda, Peru, Senegal or Tanzania. These are all countries where homosexuality is included in the penal code and is indeed punished. Together with our EU partners, we can also send a clear message in a bi- or multilateral framework to countries such as Saudi Arabia, China, India, Iran, Mauritania, Nigeria and Pakistan, so that they at least engage in the debate on the place assigned to homosexuality in their society. Homosexuality is not a choice. It is not taught at school and it is not visited by discotheques, as we have heard recently, even in our country, colleagues. It's how people are born. We must not only confirm this message in our own country, we must step up our efforts to further integrate that message into our foreign policy and towards our partner countries in the context of development cooperation. We shall therefore vote for this resolution with conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u119	Mr President, it is far from the time, in January 2003, when this House voted for marriage and, in April 2006, the same House voted for the adoption made possible for homosexual couples; it is far from the time when we had to fight on such an essential subject! Today, the issue of homosexuality in Belgium has become mainstream. And we can rejoice. Today, in view of the names of the signatories of the original resolution, as well as the content of the same resolution, we can say that the laws have not only changed Belgian society and its acceptance, but also most certainly altered the political world itself. And we can rejoice. For the Greens, the 29 Jogjakarta principles that are mobilized by Mr Flahaux's resolution are human rights. The rights of homosexuals, gays, lesbians, bisexuals, transsexuals, queers and intersex (LGBTQI) are human rights like others. As is the right to freedom of expression, the right to be able to unionize, associate, etc. The principles are no different for these rights than for all other human rights that make us capable of interacting in the world. Belgium, through this resolution, and the House in particular, wants to give lessons to the world. And that's right, because it's true that on the global LGBTQI rights ranking, Belgium is particularly well placed. Nevertheless, there are still three black spots on which we must work in the future as a legislative body. The first is the necessary law on which Mrs Sleurs and Mr Geens are working, namely the law on transgender, which was already on the profession of the previous government and which, unfortunately, could not succeed in the previous legislature. It will be possible to achieve concrete results today and aim to de-medicalize and depsychologise the phenomenon of gender change. We trust Mr Geens and Mrs Sleurs to do so. Environmentalists will be extremely attentive to the current legislative process. The second concerns the extremely discriminatory rule which affects very strongly, from a symbolic point of view in any case, male homosexuals who cannot give their blood. The Minister of Health, who is present and who is participating in our discussions, is committed to amending this rule. Here too, it will be a matter of being attentive to its realization. I come to the third point, for which the greatest difficulty arises in this resolution, namely asylum. Today, it is indisputable that, in a number of countries around the world, LGBTQI rights are not respected, which sometimes prompts them to take the asylum route. Recital K, which was added in our work, received unanimity and does not call into question the support that the Green Group will give to the resolution. He said: "Considering that Belgium is taking the situation of LGBTQI into account in asylum policy." I think it is an extremely optimistic view of what the Foreign Office is doing today, which is questioning people who are seeking asylum for reasons of homosexuality. I am against the extremely weak application of Article 9b of the 1980 Law on the right of residence. Article 9b grants sick persons... Indeed, it is now indisputable that many AIDS patients in our country, particularly in Brussels, are homosexual. Almost never again do they have the possibility of obtaining a right of residence according to their state of health. Today, people suffering from AIDS who are also homosexual are being sent back to countries where they are in double danger, on the one hand, for health issues because they will not be able to treat themselves – this is not the subject of the resolution – and, on the other hand, for issues of sexual orientation. This will be the third point of attention on which the Greens will continue to work and "hold on panties", if I may say so, the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, who has not taken the necessary initiatives in this area. Finally, there is a resolution that was adopted on 3 March 2011 in the same Chamber, with exactly the same title. I believe that we must ensure, from today, that this resolution, which is the subject of a unanimous vote in our House, does not remain a dead letter so that what has happened in Istanbul or Orlando, which is now seen in Uganda, Russia, Somalia, Saudi Arabia, Iran or elsewhere, is no longer possible. We will therefore vote with enthusiasm and determination.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u120	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it is not without emotion that I speak on behalf of my group on this motion for a resolution almost two weeks after the terrible attack in a gay club in Orlando. This dramatic event reminded us once again of how the LGBTQI community is a target of choice for the enemies of democracy and freedom. The victims of this act of barbarism were targeted solely for what they were and for what they expressed. The situation of this community is even more serious in other countries. Is it worth recalling that in nearly eighty countries discriminatory laws criminalize consensual and private relationships between persons of the same sex? These laws expose citizens to arrest, prosecution, imprisonment and even, in at least five countries, the death penalty. In some of them, these penalties are applied with the utmost severity. In others, they are very few, but encourage the police to discriminate, harass, or even assault the gay community, placing perpetual fear of rejection and violence on its members. Therefore, regardless of the concrete situation resulting from legislation penalizing homosexuality, the decriminalization of homosexuality is not symbolic. It is essential for the respect of LGBTQI rights and freedoms. Fortunately, progress is being made. In India, the Supreme Court ordered the parliament to examine the decriminalization of homosexuality, stating that the Indian Penal Code denied a homosexual person's right to full personality. In Seychelles, decriminalization was voted on 17 May so that homosexuality will no longer be considered as an act "counter-nature". In other countries, such as Cameroon, the picture seems to be darkening, since the recent revision of the Penal Code aims to consolidate the criminalization of homosexuality, ignoring the demands of the judiciary and civil society. The Cameroonian government decrees that both the opposition and the majority were fiercely opposed to decriminalization. The Orlando tragedy has also shown us that a country whose legislation is more or less favourable to the emancipation of LGBTQI is not immune to attacks on this community. The work we have to do is a daily and long-term task. We cannot accept that an individual who is shocked by two men who kiss decides, for this reason, to act. It is often said, and I repeat again, the key is the realization of education in relational, emotional and sexual life in all our schools, from kindergarten. Our textbooks are still too often heterostandardized. Homophobic discourse is a reality in our schools. There is a continuum between speech and action. Therefore, my group fully supports this proposal and its objectives of raising awareness of development cooperation policy and foreign policy. Our country has a fundamental role to play through its place in the European Union, the Council of Europe and the UN Human Rights Council, where we must seize these three years of representation as an opportunity to really move the lines. I would like to take this opportunity to invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to jointly propose a similar initiative calling on our federal and regional governments to take all the necessary measures to ensure respect for and emancipation of the LGBTQI community in Belgium. Of course, our country can boast of a highly progressive legislation in this area, but, as my colleagues have pointed out in committee, progress remains to be made in addressing the difficulties faced by asylum-seekers who are victims of homophobic acts to prove their homosexuality and to be protected against further intimidation, to remedy the difficulty for transsexuals to be recognized as men or women outside their body envelope, to remedy the low rate of prosecution and convictions for homophobia or the systematic impossibility for homosexuals to give blood even if their behaviour is not at risk. On this last point, I would like to point out that a motion for a resolution has been tabled to that effect and that we will follow closely the results of the round table convened by the Minister of Health. As I said in committee, when you give blood, you are responsible, whether you are gay or heterosexual; the people who make this gesture do so vis-à-vis society and it has become urgent to take this into account. Such proposals need to be supported all the more since it is also a matter of actively supporting the LGBTQI and civil law NGOs and associations whose work and courage I welcome and which must be accompanied in their struggle so that everyone can be free, without any coercion or intimidation, to be self-sufficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u121	Mr President, our group will also support the resolution proposed today. This is a strong signal that we must give to this struggle, which remains topical in the world, including in our country, for this equality of rights and the fight against discrimination. It is important to give this signal when we see the latest events that have taken place in different countries. As far as development cooperation is concerned, I also believe that there will be a link not only through decriminalisation but also through fighting through education in these countries. They could be given material means to fight through education, through quality education. It is therefore not just a matter of legislative and criminal developments but also of educational developments. I also hope that through development cooperation we can help the various countries in this area. It seems to me important, on the occasion of the international signals that we give, that we show humility in being aware that many battles have been waged in Belgium. Unfortunately, these struggles have not yet been completed. The assassination of Ihsane in 2012, to which Mr Flahaux referred earlier, proves that the issue of homophobia is not closed in our country. This is a daily fight that must be continued. At the international level, everyone must also show humility. It should be recalled that, in the past, Western countries have, I am thinking in particular of the British colonial period, introduced the criminalization of homosexuality into their Penal Code. At that time, Western countries did not really set an example. In any event, it is important for us that this signal be sent, even if we were not present during the examination of this proposal in committee, since we cannot attend all committee meetings. That is why the PTB will vote for this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u122	Mr President, I do not have much to add since everything has been said by the representatives of the various groups in this House on this subject. In any case, I should like to support this motion for a resolution, which I very much support.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u123	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u124	The vote on the proposal will take place later. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u125	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 1051: Els Van Hoof, Nathalie Muylle, Sonja Becq, Jan Vercammen, Ine Somers, Karin Jiroflée, Anne Dedry, Catherine Fonck, Mureil Gerkens, Damien Thiéry, Daniel Senesael - 43: Catherine Fonck - 436: Muriel Gerkens, Anne Dedry - 805: Muriel Gerkens, Anne Dedry, Evita Willaert, Georges Gilkinet, Kristof Calvo, Jean-Marc Nollet, Stefaan Van Hecke, Marcel Cheron, Wouter De Vriendt, Benoit Hellings - 1625: Ine Somers, Dirk Janssens, Els Van Hoof, Jan Vercammen, Damien Thiéry. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to the legislative proposals and to the proposals of resolution. I propose that you devote a single discussion to these bills and to these motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u126	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Frédéric and Mr Thiéry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u127	Mr President, we refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u128	Colleagues, if it is a delicate and sensitive area, it is the end of life area. The decisions to be made are always difficult, for the patient, for his or her loved ones, but also for the health professionals they are with. In 2002, the legislator provided a fundamental answer to this question of the end of life, allowing each patient, when pain becomes unbearable, when the hope of healing disappears and the dignity of the person is no longer guaranteed, to be able to properly ask questions about his or her end of life, and to be able to be supported by competent professionals who, when the time comes, will meet his or her expectations. This legislative balance is now based on three essential laws: palliative care, euthanasia and patient rights. My group has always been ardently present to preserve this essential balance. Today, the text before our assembly, which we have co-signed, intends to broaden the current definition of palliative care. In our view, however, this text should be seen as a first step in the right direction. Indeed, the identification of different types of palliative patients and their needs is an essential step that we will have to take. Unfortunately, today we still do not know whether the government is prepared to make a specific budget in this context, but we will obviously support this text. I would also like to say a word about the motion for a resolution on the legality of the transport and storage of medicinal products for palliative use. While recognizing the need to find a solution to this problem, it was essential for my group that the framework should enable all parties to find an adequate and non-binding response, in order to take account of specific needs and regional disparities, while respecting the accountability of all stakeholders in the care chain. The resolution before us today seems to be based on a predefined framework by directly referring to an ongoing pilot project in the Westhoek-Ostende Palliative Care Network. As we have already said in committee, we regret that the consensus text proposed by the Federatie Palliatie Zorg Vlaanderen, the pluralist Brussels Federation of Palliative and Continuing Care, the Walloon Federation of Palliative Care, the Vlaams Apothekers Netwerk, the Association of Pharmaceutical Unions, the Algemene Pharmaceutisch Bond and the Belgian Pharmaceutical Association, i.e. all French-speaking and Dutch-speaking actors directly concerned, has not been fully taken into account. As Winston Churchill said: "There is no harm in changing your mind as long as it is in the right direction." If this is not the case, we will not support this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u129	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the House is about to vote on a legislative proposal aimed at broadening the definition of palliative care. The central objective of the bill is to provide people with the maximum possible quality of life during the final phase of their lives and in any way they wish. The current law on palliative care dates back to 2002. Over the past few years, the call for the general approach to palliative care has sounded increasingly louder, based on various studies by the KCE, the Federal Evaluation Cell Palliative Care and recently the FLIECE studies. The various Federations of Palliative Care also asked to take their suggestions into account. The legislative proposal takes into account the expressed aspirations to broaden and deepen palliative care, with the aim of better caring for people at the time they are most vulnerable and also to align the definition and principles internationally with the definition and principles of the World Health Organisation. Colleagues, on the broadening of palliative care, we make palliative care accessible to those who are at an advanced or terminal stage of incurable disease, regardless of life expectancy. In doing so, we break the misconception that palliative care focuses exclusively on cancer patients during the terminal phase of their disease. We do this by taking care needs and not by taking the life expectancy of the helper as a guide. We want this quality of life to be as high as possible through three priorities: firstly, through early care planning as an incentive to palliative care; secondly, by reducing therapeutic persistence with useless treatments and, thirdly, through palliative care in function of the need for care and the needs of the helper. These three spearheads, combined with the release of life expectancy as a criterion of the auxiliary questioner, have three important consequences. First of all, there's going to be a much faster transition from cure to care. Our last few weeks we spend far too often glued to machines, subjected to painful interventions to stretch our lives a little. If anyone knows he's gonna die, won't he spend the last few days at home as comfortable as possible? Belgian research shows that if one takes care of palliative patients as a central criterion, 19 percent of all patients in hospitals need palliative care, but they do not receive palliative care today. A second effect is that it becomes more financially bearable for the patient. The palliative forfait becomes more accessible to people who need it. Figures requested from Minister De Block showed that in 2015 55% of applicants for a palliative forfait die within 60 days of their first application. In other words, 55% of applicants cannot use the support they indicate they need. A third expected effect on which academics and medical practitioners are committed is that the expansion of palliative care entails a reduction in healthcare costs. A study carried out by the KCE in 2009 already stated that the average daily costs during the last 30 days of patients dying in geriatric, cardiology and oncology departments are lower if their dossier states that they are receiving palliative care. In short, we make a humane choice for better care, which as a positive side effect leads to a reduction in the cost of RIZIV. In addition to broadening, we are also in favour of a deepening of end-of-life care. Palliative care has so far had quite a side effect that it serves for the terminal phase and for the relief of physical suffering. This has meant that other real forms of suffering have so far not been exposed. This concerns spiritual and existential suffering and questions about identity and meaning. Specifically, what's gonna happen to my neighbors? Have I been able to tell my children everything I wanted to give them? In other words, has my life been satisfactorily completed in all its facets and am I at peace with that? I note with great satisfaction that opposition and majority have found each other around the definition and that the debates have been very serene. They have evolved into a good common text. Such a law should be implemented quickly. Both the identification of the sick and the palliative as well as the assessment of the care needs should be carried out using and establishing scientific tools at KB. The Minister has developed a good tool with the Palliative Care Indicators Tool (PCIT). We call on her to quickly convert this into a KB, including the advice of the Federal Cell Palliative Care. Patients may be given both an official status and the appropriate care they request in line with their needs for care. Colleagues, this law sets out new beacons to assist people in their most difficult moments. I am convinced that this law can lead to a change of mind in health care from cure to care, on a timely basis, and from overtreatment to care. I'm sure the patient's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u130	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the knowledge centre in its 2009 report called for an extension of the definition of the palliative patient already during the previous legislative period. It advocated palliative care when the patient is at an advanced stage of a severe, progressive and life-threatening disease, regardless of life expectancy. More specifically, the centre of knowledge pointed to the need to identify a wider group of patients as palliative, wider than the often oncological patients that are today called palliative patients. The evaluation report "Palliative Care 2014' endorsed that objective and referred very specifically to the dementias as a group that deserves particular attention. Mr Van Hoof's proposal deals with this sigh. The new definition provides for a broader definition of palliative patients and also allows them to use palliative care in the past. A few weeks ago, the evaluation of the PCIT also showed very clearly that there is already an instrument for identifying that wider target group as a palliative patient at an earlier time. Together with the minister, we found that some adjustments have to be made for children and for the group of patients who are not detected as palliative but die within the year. Once the opinion of the Federal Evaluation Cell Palliative Care on the statutes and the rights to be attached to them is ready, the Minister will be able to implement this legal text and introduce the various palliative statutes, which will allow the gradual construction of palliative care as the need for care increases. In short, there has been very good cooperation between Parliament, which has adapted the legislation, and the Minister, who has already made the necessary preparations to implement the legislative provisions quickly. At the same time as the legislative proposal, my motion for a resolution was also adopted. The motion for a resolution deals with the problem of the availability of palliative medicinal products for palliative patients at home. The experience of the palliative networks teaches us that sometimes in urgent situations, palliative medicines must be immediately available to the patient. Today, the family or the nurse who goes to the pharmacy or the pharmacy to pick up the drugs, who often does not have the necessary quantities. A 2012 master's test showed that the waiting cases of palliative drugs were still in use in the pharmacies only in four of the twelve networks. Networks then developed their own alternatives. One is that the nurse of the multidisciplinary guidance quipes keep surpluses of palliative patients who have passed away and use them to meet the needs of other palliative patients. That's illegal. We must not allow these medicines to be carried around in accordance with our legislation. With the proposal for a resolution, we ask the Minister to work out a solution, on the one hand, for the palliative patient at home to be able to provide the same quality palliative care as the palliative patient in the hospital or hospital and, on the other hand, for the nurses to be legally protected. Finally, the development of a safety system for the protection of society is also desirable. Palliative medicines are not innocent. The proposal calls on the Minister to follow two tracks. On the one hand, we ask the Minister to draw up a list of palliative medicinal products which the pharmacies must have in sufficient quantities. In this way it is possible for the family and for the nurses of the multidisciplinary guidance quipes to obtain maximum the medicines in question from the home pharmacist. On the other hand, we call on the Minister to draw up legislation allowing nurses to possess and transport palliative medicinal products, so that, in urgent cases, nurses are always able to meet the needs of the palliative patient immediately after the order of a physician. This should improve the quality of care for the palliative patient as well as the legal status of the nurse. At the same time, we ask the Minister to set up a safety system so that the government can always ascertain who has given the patient how much of which palliative medicine has been administered and what has happened to the surpluses. That is a quality element of good care. The Minister can certainly draw inspiration from the pilot project currently under way in the Westhoek Oostende palliative care network, which takes place in collaboration with the Federation of Palliative Cares Flanders and the Flemish pharmacists network. The Minister will certainly take into account the framework conditions set out in the common position of the palliative networks and the pharmacist networks. In this way we can come up with a system that is feasible in each Community, takes into account the division of competences and the specific characteristics of each Community and, importantly, which is also workable in practice. I would like to stress that the role of the pharmacist, the health professional with expertise in the field of medicines, is important for us in both runs. The dossier has also taught me that palliative care is approached differently in the different Communities and Regions. The motion for a resolution with two tracks is therefore the result of a joint proposal by the three federations of Palliative Care and the various pharmacist networks in our country. They also rightly stressed the importance of good communication between the various actors: the doctor, the multidisciplinary guidance quipe and the pharmacist. Good communication can help to overcome many problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u131	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I will address the bill by Mr Els Van Hoof concerning the amendment of the definition of palliative care. This text, which has received broad support in our committee, aims to broaden this definition so that this care is better integrated into health care. International definitions, particularly by the WHO, are thus met. The proposal is an important signal to the population, patients and caregivers. By focusing on end-of-life accompaniment, the old definition was no longer adapted to the current philosophy of palliative care. Indeed, on a daily basis, the actors told us that this concept was reductive. Each patient has, regardless of life expectancy, the right to receive palliative care when he or she is in the advanced or terminal stage of a serious and progressive disease that endangers his or her life-threatening prognosis. This change in the definition will obviously involve a new identification of patients who can benefit from a palliative approach. This will have to be done in a second phase. The Minister of Public Health is committed to finding a pragmatic solution in consultation with the Federal Palliative Care Evaluation Unit. This solution can be based on the Palliative Care Indicators Tool, the PICT, which has shown that it can take into account patients whose life expectancy exceeds three months, regardless of the pathology to which they suffer. It also aims to allocate resources commensurate with the complexity of situations. The PICT therefore proposes a concrete method. It can be the starting point for identifying palliative patients and their needs. Let me say a word about the motion for a resolution on the legality of the storage and transport of medicinal products for palliative use. This proposal seeks to find a solution for palliative care teams to have drugs in emergency or sedation kits and to transport them under the supervision of a designated pharmacist. In parallel with our work, an initiative with the actors on the ground was launched. The Belgian Pharmaceutical Association (BPA) and the pharmaceutical sector, as well as the various palliative care federations, have agreed on a consensus text to be part of the search for this solution, taking into account the specificities of the field. This consensus text will, of course, be the basis of the solution that will have to emerge. I will highlight the following points that will have to be found in the solution: a non-binding response, accountability of all the players in the chain, the supervision of a pharmacist seconded to this function, the security of the kits, the necessary evaluation of the system. Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, these are the various comments we wanted to make in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u132	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that most of us will agree that the narrow definition of palliative care, as set out in the law of 2002, is indeed out of line. That is why we very much welcome the fact that we have been able to debate in a serene manner an extension of this definition so that it is more in line with current needs. We do not doubt that we would have liked to have seen this more accurately and that the financial consequences are not yet fully clear, but we think this is a first step in the right direction. I agree with Mrs Van Hoof that we have reached a good compromise. We shall therefore be voting in favour of this bill. I believe that the discussions have taken place in a very good atmosphere.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u133	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I myself was a party to the law on palliative care in 2002, under the leadership of Magda Aelvoet. Our group has always followed international developments closely and has also maintained a very close and intense contact with the field of work. In January, our group tabled a legislative proposal to extend the concept of palliative concern to the World Health Organization, the European and Belgian federations Palliative Care. The majority were clearly inspired by this and came, under Mrs Van Hoof's good initiative, with an analogue bill in April 2015. The extension of the definition is absolutely necessary, because palliative care does not start at the terminal phase. As my colleague has said, good palliative care has to do with the quality of care. Good palliative care also pays attention to the neighbors, including caregivers. The proposal will certainly prevent therapeutic persistence and will certainly not entail any additional costs, quite the contrary. We have worked well together in committee on this subject. It would be lacking when it comes to the end of life, or at least a period close to the end of life. Majority and opposition should not then constitute obstacles. We have also discussed a number of amendments together, with which we have refined the wording and, among other things, I have just made a plea for the carers to include the carers in the definition. That amendment was signed and approved by everyone, across party boundaries. We will definitely vote in favour of the proposal with our group, as it is entirely in line with the legislative proposal that we ourselves tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u134	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I shall address two different texts here. The first concerns the definition of palliative patients, where the challenge is, as always in medicine, to start from the specific needs of the patient and not from the notion of end of life or from a more administrative aspect. To be able to provide a patient with care tailored to his needs only on the basis of a rule that refers to three months, which was the case until now, is not the most suitable for the situation of patients. Let us recall that the initiative of this text dates from the previous legislature. I had indeed tabled a text which reproduced exactly this change in definition. I dropped it off here again. So much the better if, in this way, I have been able to convince other parties to make progress in this area so that we can finally reach this issue. I would like to commend the President of the Palliative Care Evaluation Unit and the regional palliative care federations, who have argued in the same direction. It is to them that we must sign this work which has led to this type of text. Minister, there are still steps. The first is to be able to transpose the instrument of identification of the palliative patient and above all to assess the severity of his needs and to be able to convert this scale from the simple, increased and complete palliative status since all this work was carried out by Dr. Desmedt of UCL, with the three federations of palliative care and the Federal Evaluation Unit. The priority for tomorrow is to be able to transpose this tool that they have put in place. Another step that awaits you, Minister, is to resolve the issue of means. When I hear your representative in committee saying that it is not possible to find additional budgetary means for palliative care, that is twofold to me. First of all, I find that it is really not aware of the reality of the teams that today accept all the applications, even though they are no longer funded in terms of the package and therefore agree to take care of patients who are far beyond the quota for which they are financed. The second thing is that it is also interesting to hear your representative say this on your behalf in committee, because if these patients are not cared for in palliative care, it is to make them believe that they will be cared for elsewhere. Where will they then be taken care of? Most often, it's in hospital. However, care in hospital, excluding palliative care, will cost at least as much, if not more expensive. Minister, the argument used by your office is therefore particularly inappropriate. As far as the legality of storage and transport of medicinal products for palliative use is concerned, the title does not clearly reveal the stakes. What is he? It is not to end up in a situation where palliative care is not possible – I am talking about drugs – for reasons that are obviously not valid even if they are understandable given the current organization. It is important to remind here – I dare hope my colleagues are in the same state of mind – that this is not a defect, in any case, of the teams. Since these laws were subject to certain laws, it was not possible, so far, to operate otherwise under optimal security conditions. Mr. Gustin's gone. Whatever. Dear colleagues at MR, long before this issue was addressed, the field players, namely palliative care federations and pharmacist representatives, were working to reach consensus. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, the way in which you have done this is an inquisitive one. You started from a pilot experience, of course interesting, by deciding to impose it in the same way everywhere. However, there are different practices and, above all, you have been explicitly informed that these working groups exist at the level of the actors on the ground. I am particularly interested in the CD&V and the MR. In committee, you have been so far as to say that you were not aware that this work was being done. Even the firm said so. I think it's a shame. It is a pity always, in this matter, not to want to listen and work, above all, from the realities of the field by doing bottom-up. You are ardent supporters of top-down. They came to a consensus text and as if that was not enough, you decided that you preferred to cling to your text of the transposition of a pilot project that is transposed in the same way everywhere, rather than following the actors on the ground, the consensus that really brought together all the partners, all the actors involved throughout Belgium. I can only regret and denounce – I will go so far – that the majority are not listening to the actors on the ground, this consensus position. Of course today, in the expression, all of a sudden, we can see that you're embarrassed at the corners. You are trying to make us believe that your text represents the same thing, and that it will be applied on the basis of consensus on the ground. The reality is quite different. The text you are voting here will allow you to do a clear work and approach based on this pilot experience, and at the same time without taking into account the diversity of the realities on the ground. I regret it, it is really a shame and it is a flagrant lack of respect for the actors on the ground. I will conclude, Mr. Chairman, by setting a course, not necessarily focused on palliative care because I think I have said everything I have to say here. I would like to remind the minister of the question of means. The teams are really overloaded today. I would like to point out that what should be your priority, your course, is to have a concerted policy aimed at the quality of patient care, the fair allocation of resources and the respect of teams. On the case concerning kits, palliative drugs, you were cruelly disrespectful of the field teams. That is why, Mr. Speaker, we will be voting on the bill on the definition of palliative patients, since it is exactly the same as I tabled under the previous legislature and at the beginning of this legislature; however, we will abstain from the resolution on kits and palliative drugs. The signal you gave to the actors on the ground shows a lack of respect. And I can assure you that I will be extremely vigilant not to apply your unique proposal and that, on the contrary, in the future, Madam Minister, you can have an approach that respects this position of consensus on the ground. Priority is given to patients. The priority of the priorities is the actors who invest themselves in it and not just a policy that wants to put a flower in its hat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u135	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, like my colleagues, I would like to refer – this is important – to the work that was done on the occasion of the review of the 2002 bills (patient rights, palliative care, euthanasia, and affirmation of the right of patients to refuse treatment and to prohibit therapeutic harassment). We are part of this extension and the combination of concerns aimed at enabling everyone to receive the care they need in the most appropriate way. When we know that a patient is suffering from a disease that is known to be incurable, and that at some point curative care is being abandoned to take care of the patient so that he or she will suffer as little as possible, and that he or she will be able to enjoy the best possible quality of life by trying to allow him or her to maintain maximum autonomy, we knew that it was imperative to amend the law relating to the status of the palliative patient, since the law referred to an estimated life of three months, renewable once. Together with my colleague Anne Dedry, we tabled a resolution in October 2014 and, in January 2015, a bill after a series of meetings. I would also like to join here in thanking the Flemish, Brussels and French-speaking federations, but also a number of actors, including general practitioners, the medical houses that have joined our reflections in trying to determine the most appropriate definition possible in order to meet the various needs and allow the person to be accompanied from the observation of his incurable illness to the end of his life, while preserving his right to refuse, at some point, any treatment, but also respecting his choice to ask for euthanasia. When we presented these two texts in the Committee on Health, the members of that committee did not fail to mobilize themselves. Hearings were held and members of the majority tabled a text, to which we supported, since the important thing was to arrive at a solution and not to claim the rights of maternity or paternity of the text in question. It is the majority-opposition parliamentary dynamic that is still ubiquitous on these issues. One element is missing in the text that we have adopted and will have to be refined by the end of the year. The evaluation unit will continue its work and assess the budgetary impact of an improvement that we had included in our texts, Mrs Dedry and myself, on these three stages of palliative care with different natures and intensities, thanks to this new scale of needs assessment which is being finalized. In the coming months, it will be important, on the basis of this evaluation, to have a complement to the existing arrangements in order to be even more effective in the follow-up of patients. I now turn to the resolution on the storage and transport of medicines. I should like to express my astonishment, not on the need to ensure that arrangements are made but to allow, when the multidisciplinary palliative care teams consider it necessary, transportation by a person who is not a pharmacist and who is not illegal. This person will be able to have this transport kit at his disposal as too often there has been a lack of availability of these drugs in pharmacies. In the discussions on this resolution, it appeared that the parliamentarians who signed it did not seem to be aware that the problem was perceived differently in Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia and that the solutions to be taken were also considered in a completely different way. I can admit that some parliamentarians were not aware of it. But let the minister's representative tell us: "There is only one solution to be found, which is to allow the generalization of the Ostend pilot project to the whole territory", this is not acceptable. A federal minister and his cabinet work for the entire country. That is why it is important that we systematically take into account what is happening in all regions. You accepted...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u136	Mrs Gerkens, I shall pass the floor to Mrs Somers for an interruption.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u137	Mrs. Gerkens, I'd like to intervene. If there's no exaggeration, I'll shut up. As a member of the opposition, you may say what you want, but now you are really exaggerating. You did not listen very carefully when I said in my speech that during the discussion on this resolution it was clear that palliative care is being addressed in various ways by the Communities, that several proposals are being made in the resolutions, that it is up to the Minister to consult with the Communities and that a solution must be found which is good for the Communities and the regions and is feasible in practice. These are five points which I have briefly raised in my speech. However, you make something else appear. You are right to say that the basis of this resolution was in a master's work, which showed that four out of twelve networks were no longer working and that there is a proposal on the Flemish side. During the committee work on this resolution, I made that clear, and I said so here too. What you're saying now is, in fact, almost a flagrant lie.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u138	Mrs Somers, reread the report and relive honestly the way it happened! A job followed. That you have put forward a proposal based on a model that has worked and works in Ostend and that you say that this model is interesting and that it is necessary to allow nurses and palliative care team members to remain in lawfulness when they transport these drugs, I agree with you. That is interesting and an answer must be given to that. That you didn't know what was happening on the francophone side and the demands is one thing. What I did not accept, and I still do not accept, is that at some point, on the part of the minister's representative, there was no such openness and that there was no prior attempt to find out what was happening in the three regions. The minister's representative did not seem to know. She also did not tell us that a job was being done with all the federations and associations of pharmacists, to come with a collective proposal. It is because you accepted, at the request of the opposition, that there is a request for an opinion and this opinion was received, co-signed by all the federations and pharmacists, that you have tabled amendments to your resolution. Good! In my opinion, these amendments are not sufficient. That is why we have co-signed an amendment which we are resubmitting here to add elements which, in a very clear way, do not only call for consultation with the federations. This consultation took place because they gave a common opinion. Our amendment also states in the motion for a resolution that it is important to take account of regionally differentiated needs and solutions and that it is important that, in addition to legalizing the transport of a medicine through a palliative care team, there should also be provision for pharmacies to be organized otherwise in the storage of medicines, so that they are optimally available to teams, with communication of needs and identification of patients between teams, treating doctors and pharmacists.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u139	Mrs Gerkens, it cannot be said that the cabinet was completely unaware of it. That's really overreacting. The cabinet raised a number of associations, of which they had letters and information. This included, for example, the Belgian Association for Nurses. By the way, when you hear the word "Belgian philosophers," it's going to be all over the country. There's no way the cabinet's gonna say it. I would like to make it clear that the initiative for the resolution was taken following a master's study, which was made by someone in Flanders, and following a pilot project started in Flanders. I know. It will not be the first time that there are major differences between the two parts of the country in terms of health. We will probably talk about this next week. That's gonna be a litany, too. Anyone who realizes that a minister must consult with the Communities in order to make the dossier practical and adaptable in practice will come to a proper resolution. I do not understand why an amendment to the resolution cannot yet be tabled during the discussion. Many of your proposals are also based only on ideas from and knowledge of your country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u140	Mr President, I would like to recall something, because I think this discussion is surreal. Mrs. Somers, I understand you're embarrassed at the corners. I think if I were you, I'd be even more so than you. I understand your anger and your reactions. You are able to tap on the bench so much that you get mad at the speaker who is in the gallery. I'd still like to remind you of two things. The first is that the minister's office made it very clear that she was in no way aware of the working group that already existed, with the three palliative care federations, the PDB and the SSMG. That's very clear. The second, on the content. You have changed the text a little, but in an extremely partial way. I repeat here too, you wanted to fully transpose a pilot project even though it did not fit into reality and the federation, including Flemish, did not agree with palliative care. You pretended, you initially did not want to imagine that another approach was possible, and above all, an approach common to all actors. Besides, you seem to say that you now agree with the actors on the ground. If that's the case, I'll take your word. I would point out that I have tabled an amendment, co-signed by Mrs Muriel Gerkens and Mrs Véronique Caprasse, so that the minister can move forward on the basis of the consensus reached between the relevant actors on the ground. This consensus is not going to put you in trouble in any way. It will not make the life of the minister impossible, put her into practical impossibility or ask her for completely disproportionate budgetary means. No! If you really agree now with the actors on the ground, sign... Sign if you want, but above all, vote for the amendment we are proposing. So this time, you will respect the field work and you will be in tune with a common approach that can be applied by teams wherever they work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u141	In conclusion, Mrs Somers, ladies and gentlemen, we have worked well on the proposal for a law on the definition of patient status in palliative care. If we have been able to work well, it is because we have authorized and organized hearings, and because the structures that organize palliative care platforms bring together the platforms across the country. Everyone cared about the patient's respect and well-being. How can this palliative care be improved to meet needs? We have reached a text, majority and opposition. If we have a problem with the resolution on the transport of medicines, it is because at that time, the parliamentary game and the position of the cabinet's work did not allow us to take into account this gathering of opinions and this collective work. However, this was accomplished by the actors on the ground. That's what I'm blaming. It's a shame, people have come together to try to find a solution that fits all over the territory. They said that there were specificities, and that we had to take them into account, but that we would achieve the same goal, the same respect for the needs of patients, the same meeting of the demands and needs of professionals. Following the ten directions they proposed, we met the objectives of the resolution, the specificities and the needs of the patients. I do not intervene to create an additional Community problem, since the actors come together and propose something to you. However, the pride of the parliamentarian sometimes means that we cannot take into account the common work, when these actors are asked to work together, to give us advice and to make recommendations to us. When the work is done, we sometimes allow ourselves not to take sufficient account of it. Having said that, Mrs Somers, we are going to vote in favour of the bill, since, as my colleague Dedry said, it is a copy-paste of the Ecolo-Groen bill and it meets the needs. We will vote in favour of the amendment that we both co-signed, because it takes into account the proposals of the three federations, pharmacists and general practitioners. Whether this amendment is accepted or not, we will also support the resolution, only to enable Flemish actors to guarantee to those who carry a kit, i.e. essentially Flemish, that they will not be illegal. In the hope that the first paragraph of our resolution, which was written in consultation with the federations, will take into account the proposal they have made. Considering also that parliamentary questions will be frequent, with the aim of verifying that diversity is present in fact and in the provisions provided to platforms to organize, in a specific and adapted way for each Region, the availability of medicines and their transport and storage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u142	Mr President, I will be brief, because everything has already been said. My party believes that it is time to extend the definition of palliative care reimbursed by INAMI. Such care could not continue to be limited to a mere accompaniment towards an inevitable end of life in the short term. Palliative care must be integrated into health care at an early stage; recognize the importance of the psychic, social, spiritual and existential aspects of patients with life expectancy; no longer rely on life expectancy, but on the specific needs of each patient; and take better account of their pain, dignity and emotional concerns. These approaches, which require a multidisciplinary approach, are essential for the 10,000 to 20,000 patients who, every day in our country, are at an advanced or terminal stage of a serious or progressive disease, as well as for their loved ones. We therefore welcome the unanimity that has emerged around this proposal for a law with high human added value. It is with great satisfaction that I shall vote in favour of this text. But, of course, I come back to everything that has been said by Mrs Fonck and Mrs Gerkens: it was essential to listen to the various federations and the pharmaceutical associations and to take their opinions into account, since they are actors on the ground. We are their intermediaries, but we have not played the right role. I would also like to add a personal remark. I worked for several years in a hospice palliative care association. To go back to Mrs Fonck's financial comments, we must indeed produce a financial analysis of the support we can provide. We need to work with INAMI in this area. Then there are the full packages and the reduced packages. They are the ones who make the associations live. When money comes to be missed, you have to run behind subsidies and donations. It's exhausting. It should be noted that nurses working in palliative care at home are extremely brave people, who are constantly facing death. It is, moreover, very difficult to recruit them, because their mission requires a great deal of experience. That is why we must financially encourage these associations. As Mrs Fonck said, it is a way of achieving savings. When a patient has to end his life in a hospital, it involves a cost. Of course, some patients prefer to die in hospital and feel safer. But many people want to finish in the middle of their furniture and people they love. As I have just said, we need financial encouragement. It's a small call from my foot that I'm making to the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u143	Mr President, the members of the Committee on Health have contributed positively to further steps. One of the great merits of the bill is that it separates the palliative care from the earlier known term of the last three months of life. After all, it is a strange way of working, to have to predict that someone will live for three months and no longer. Moreover, there may be a need for palliative care earlier than three months before the end of life. In this respect, the legislative proposal clarifies both the patients and the caregivers. The issue is sensitive, but I am glad that a large part of the measures and proposals have been agreed. Is it the last step? No, more steps will have to be taken. That's always the way it is. From the cabinet, I think we have informed ourselves about and shown the necessary interest in the work of the members of the committee. I will therefore carry out what will be approved here in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u144	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u145	We begin by discussing the articles of the Bill No. 1051. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1051/8) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 1051. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1051/8) The bill has 2 articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u146	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We take the view that the proposal of Resolution No. 1625. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1625/5) We shall now proceed to the discussion of motion for a resolution No 1625. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1625/5) ******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u147	The vote on the amendment retained and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendment and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u148	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u149	Mr President, I propose that we stick to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u150	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u151	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1870/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1870/4) Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in - Bill implementing Regulation (EU) No 98/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 January 2013 on the marketing and use of explosives precursors". The title in French has been amended by the committee in draft law implementing Regulation (EU) No 98/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 January 2013 on the marketing and use of explosives precursors". The draft law has 13 articles. The bill has 13 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u152	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u153	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr David Clarinval, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u154	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, "Stop lies!" is your new com campaign. Does that mean that, finally, the government has decided to be honest, transparent and to stop in vain hiding the real effects and violence of its reforms?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u155	We have a little doubt!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u156	We have a doubt. I thought so, but when I saw the project... no! Minister, with this bill, you want to postpone the age at which a statutory agent is retired due to illness by three years. Your goal is not to give reintegration prospects to the people concerned, as you let him hear in committee. If not, why also target those who have been definitively found unfit? Why step back from the age at which we are pensioned? It would simply have been necessary to improve the text in order to allow the persons concerned to request reintegration. Once again, you try to hide reality by deliberately presenting things in a falsely positive way for the citizens. On the other hand, you are saluting your reform, which prevents any global vision, in order to conceal the asocial nature of the reforms that are being carried out. Indeed, we are not fools. In turn, you postpone the legal age of the pension, complicate access to the early pension, to the survivor's pension, and then you remove the inclusion of years of education first for access, then for the amount of the pension. After that, you will question the assimilated periods. Your objective is clear: to save money on future pensioners, by forcing them to work longer and worse if they are no longer able to do so. To hide the real objectives of your reform, which are largely budgetary, you say that your project will allow the people concerned to exhaust the days of leave accumulated during their careers. We know that this is not a reality. Indeed, the government indicated that it would reform the possibility for public servants to cumulate leave and sick days. Besides, not all of them have accumulated. The government has also indicated that it will terminate the pension scheme for physical incapacity and will send sick officials to the mutual. The reality is that the government is violently attacking the status of civil servants and the protections of these workers. Minister, the extreme majority of people on sick leave are really sick. You must stop presenting them as profitors. If you have not made it clear, members of your majority have expressed it in committee. You want to save money on the most fragile. As a result of your reforms, sick people between the ages of 61 and 64, because of a one-year lag, will lose purchasing power to allow you to save money. With your bill, minister, you are once again trying to save money not only for workers, but also for federated entities. It's a little easy and totally contrary to the principle of federal loyalty. You are going to force the federated entities to bear the treatment of their sick agent for three years, even though he would have received a federal pension. In concrete terms, the federated entities will have to continue to ensure the remuneration of a person who would otherwise have been a pensioner. Will you compensate for these new expenses? I doubt it. In conclusion, we still have to denounce an attack by the government on the most fragile people and public services, and thus services to the citizen. For us, that is unacceptable, and that is why we will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u157	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not in line with what has just been said. The Government has undertaken many reforms, one of which is extremely important in the area of pensions. We have assumed our responsibilities as political agents to gradually raise the statutory retirement age to 67 by 2030. We have said it and we assume it. This reform was necessary to ensure the sustainability of our pension system and if my memories are good, Mr. Daerden, your father had also thought about it and proposed it as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u158	He had announced the need to raise the real age but not the mandatory pension age.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u159	I am not going to go back to this point because it has already been the subject of many discussions in this House. The project we are dealing with today is directly related to the legal retirement age. Article 83 of the Act of 5 August 1978 on economic and budgetary reforms provides for the compulsory retirement of a public service official who has accumulated more than 365 sick days from the age of 60. You agree that this pivotal age of 60 was set at a time when the legal age for early retirement was also 60 years. Since 2013, however, the age and career conditions for early retirement have been gradually raised. The Government therefore considered that steps should be taken to progressively postpone the retirement age after 365 days of illness, from 62 years from 1 July 2016 and from 63 years from 2018. Chairperson: Siegfried Bracke, Chair.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u160	I think, ladies and gentlemen, this is a decision of common sense, for two reasons. First, because the early retirement age has been raised, the statutory retirement age must also be raised in order to align with it. Secondly, and it must be said, this increase should prevent misuse of the ex officio retirement scheme to circumvent the rules on early retirement. It should also be recalled, and the Minister pointed out in committee, that this is a transitional measure pending the reform, simplification and harmonization of the invalidity pension scheme in its entirety with the assistance of the social partners. As I have told you, this change is the logical continuation of the reforms launched by the government. Some blame us for the lack of transparency or the salucissoning of reforms that would prevent a clear vision of the objectives of the reforms. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, not to have the same reading as yours. The Minister has repeatedly explained the usefulness of these reforms. He defined the objectives of the reform, while submitting the dossier to social consultation at each stage of the reform. Here, once again, the social partners have been consulted, as reflected in the various opinions given to us by the Minister. I am also pleased that a number of them have given a favourable opinion on the project. I conclude by reminding you that today, just over 3,000 people – exactly 3,073 – are affected by this measure, almost 200 in 2015 alone, and that this measure must not, of course, be confused with the imposition of a pension because of physical incapacity, which, I would remind you, follows a medical examination. So you will not be surprised that my group and I have good reason to subscribe to this common sense project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u161	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Nollet in particular, because we still have to convince him, my speech will be very brief. Minister, I am anxiously waiting for your overall plan for pensions. We still don't have that. I would like to remind you once again that one of the main points of the Pension Reform Committee was that a global plan had to be drawn up and that this global plan had to be drawn up by the farmer in order to convince the various sections so that there would be broad support for the overall pension reform. We still do not have a global pension reform. We do not even have your view on this. What you do is change a little bit each time. Each time you adjust a small piece, with two objectives. The first objective is simply to save money. Then be honest about that. Your first objective is simply to save! Your second objective is something that everyone in the majority said before the elections was not going to do, making people work up to 67 years. Minister, I will not say that everyone agrees, but almost everyone agrees that people need to work longer. But do you really believe that just changing the age limit makes people work longer? Do you really believe that someone who has been a nurse for years and has done very heavy work will be able to work longer because you raise the age limit? Do you believe that the entrepreneur who thinks he should close his business will keep that open because people have to work until 67? You don't believe that yourself, Minister. What is necessary is a plan for longer work. This government is doing the opposite. You've abolished the pension bonus. With this proposal, you say again that people who are long-term ill will not be able to retire prematurely, whether civil servants, nurses, kindergarten teachers or so many others. The reason for this is that there are abuses. Minister, if there are abuses, they must be dealt with. We will support you in that. However, it is not because there are abuses that anyone who does not abuse the system should be punished immediately. You will now. However, my main criticism concerns your overall plan. Sharing your proposals over and over again means that there is no vision of this government. This draft also means that you will once again hit the most vulnerable, in this case the long-term sick. If it is still unclear, the sp.a will vote against this draft with great conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u162	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the first message I wanted to convey today is that the long-term serious patients do exist. It may be serious to have to remind a doctor, but during the committee discussions, you and the majority made it clear that your bill was simply motivated by the fact that public servants abuse the system. If there are abuses, it is on them that we have to work. But many people are really sick, deserve respect, and for them, your bill is brutal. They will be clearly sanctioned. You even went so far as to tell us that the bill was going to be in their favour. However, beyond the 365-day quota, these people will be laid off and will receive only 60 per cent of their salary, while pensions are at an income level of around 75 per cent. It is true that you always have the nerve to say that the bills you pass are positive and bring money to people. Yesterday, we were hearing from the Ombudsman for Pensions, since his office had just released his report. You will recall, minister, that when we debated the Graduation Bill, I demonstrated to you by A+B that people would be clearly and directly affected by their pension levels. You denied it. This is proof of the story of a nurse in the report of the Ombudsman for Pensions. You'll ask your firm to read it. Because of your bill, this nurse will have to take her pension a year later. But when she takes her pension a year later, she will have a lower pension than she would have had if your bill had not been. Don't say no to my head! Minister, go read the report of the Ombudsman for Pensions! We debated it yesterday in committee. You were told when your bill came to committee. You pretended otherwise. [[You were wrong.]] This is to show you, if necessary, that bills such as these will have a direct impact on the income level and pension level of the persons concerned. I say it for these seriously ill people. You were brutal! This is not the first time and it no longer surprises me. I come to a second point on the substance that I wanted to mention in this dossier. Calm down, gentlemen, members of the MR! When you touch where it hurts, you get angry right away! Calm down! They trust me, dear Mr. Flahaux, completely trust me, all of them! The message I wanted to convey to you, minister, is that there are people who are seriously ill, even for prolonged periods of time. But the second message I wanted to put on this bill is your lack of consistency. This is not the first time I have talked about it, and I will continue to do so as often as necessary, because you are breaking up pension reforms. This fragmentation hides vision, objective and perspective. It would be much more useful and necessary to consider a set of career-related measures that would allow all occupational categories to work longer. I know, I keep saying it, but I will continue, minister. Move on to the record of penitibility instead of penalizing the sick! Move forward on career ends instead of penalizing the sick! In a number of cases, long-term patients are often only the consequence of the problem you do not take with your body. I can only repeat it and repeat it over and over again. So, of course, we will not vote on this bill. I have the feeling that I will come back to you one of these days, with concrete situations like that of this nurse who will be directly affected by the consequences of the "diploma bonus" bill. And I have no doubt that the Pensions Mediation Service will be contacted, in the future, by people who will be directly penalized by your bill when you have claimed the opposite. It's not responsible. You know that very well. Indeed, when we look at the situation of the individuals concerned on a case-by-case basis and model on a case-by-case basis, we realize the negative impact that this can have. Colleagues, and in particular dear colleagues from the MR who are, I understand, obviously embarrassed at the roundabouts, we will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u163	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can well hear the various comments that have once again dealt with all the measures that are being put forward with regard to pension reform. There is indeed a whole, since the general debate is being held every time! In any case, it must be noted that the debates that are taking place here have not saucissoned since, each time, the whole reform proposed by the government is reviewed. I therefore invite you to re-read the government agreement where you will find a comprehensive plan. I also invite you to review my general policy note, which has been discussed in this Parliament and which covers all the objectives of the pension reform, which aims to preserve our social protection system, to ensure that future generations can count on correct pensions in this country, but also to enable the financial sustainability of the system. I'm not hiding from it. We are responsible for this because it is indispensable. Pension reform also aims to ensure social performance, harmonize different schemes and reduce the risk of poverty among pensioners in that country. This is, moreover, already reflected in the reforms adopted by this Parliament. The Federal Office of the Plan and the Study Committee on Ageing make it clear that the reforms already undertaken reduce the risk-of-poverty rate among pensioners and increase the level of the lowest pensions, especially those of women. I'm not saying it, it's organizations that are part of our country's traditional institutional landscape that are making these comments today. I also invite you to read them carefully, in order to reassure you. Indeed, I can feel your questions, and even, I would say, your anxiety. I want to try, as far as possible, to calm the latter down and reassure you of the government's objectives. With regard to the particular project that we are dealing with, I think there is a flagrant injustice in the statutory pension system, which for me is a real violence, because we are putting people on board without medical advice. There is no recourse to competent medical services or the possibility of return. Consider, for example, someone who is unlucky about a number of pathologies or diseases and who, by adding periods of incapacity, reaches 365 days of incapacity. If this person wishes to continue working, he or she cannot do so in the current state of the legislation. I am surprised that we find this correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u164	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u165	It's just the opposite. At the age of 60 or 61, I believe that one should not be considered permanently unfit because one had the bad luck of being ill for a certain period of time. In this revision of the legislation, an additional three-year re-integration is offered. That is the primary objective of this legislative amendment. You called me, dear consister, as a doctor. I find your reasoning in this matter somewhat pernicious and should be reviewed. As for Mr. Daerden, he referred to similar periods. It is true that a reflection on similar periods has been initiated by the previous government, which has, moreover, voted for the revision of similar periods in respect of the third period of unemployment. The reflection is under way and I assume it, of course. It is necessary, since one of the main objectives of this reform is to strengthen the link between work and pension and to strengthen the link between pension and work. We can take it in both directions. It is important to do so, it is part of the general motivation of the population. It seems sound to me to highlight the value of work in relation to the consequences it can have on the pension system. Mr Daerden, you will allow me to be surprised by your remark. You say we're going to "support" the federated entities, for three years, the treatment of their sick agents. I think that you are very much in solidarity and I congratulate you, especially since the federated entities are also the local authorities. As far as I know, in the joint fund of the municipalities and the provinces in the area of pensions, it is money from the communes: 41 per cent of public pension contributions that could become 50, 60, 70 per cent if no reform were to take place. You know very well that it is also a matter of preserving the finances of the local authorities, of the federated powers in our country, so that everyone can assume his responsibilities with full knowledge of the facts. Considering that it would not be normal for the public authorities to bear for a few more years the treatment of patients who have the bad luck of getting sick from time to time seems to me to be the very negation of solidarity. I am surprised that you are putting this forward. In the end, it is a question of gradually increasing from 60 to 63 years of age, depending on the legislation on early retirement, so as to ensure consistency. I would point out that the legislation started these 365 days of sickness from the age of the early pension set at 60. As this one will grow to 63 years, it is normal to ensure some consistency. It is also a question of preventing people from being forced into the pension because they have had bad luck with a number of periods of illness. I would like to see what this represents: the ex officio pension is an act of violence. It is good to review this system from bottom to bottom. This is what is foreseen in the context of a reflection which has begun on the reform of the pension for physical incapacity, which is also a system that introduces poverty in the end by putting people at an early age into the pension, who find themselves at a certain age with a pension completely inadequate for a dignified life, because this pension has been calculated over a clearly insufficient number of years. Here too, there is room to review our system. It is necessary to gradually reform our system if we are to maintain a proper pension system that will guarantee future generations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u166	Thank you, Minister. Are there any lines?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u167	Mr President, I will reply in three points. First of all, Minister, you say that, thanks to your reforms, you are fighting poverty. Obliging people to work when they are no longer able to do so, I do not see how it is to fight poverty. Secondly, you say that the statutory pension system is unfair because it forces people to leave and I will hear it. In some circumstances, people may arrive at 365 days and still want to work. In this case, minister, reform the legislation to allow these people to continue working if they still want to. What you are doing is only to earn EUR 25 million a year on a budgetary level. You quoted the number. These 25 million euros a year by 2019, you do them well on someone's back! From who? These are federated entities and workers. As far as the federated entities are concerned, you are talking about the principle of solidarity. The principle of solidarity is not to drag the savings you want to make on regions, communities and local authorities. I'll be back in a minute. Be supportive, take care of some of the savings I have to make! This is not solidarity. I know as much as you do how local authorities work. It is not the federal government that pays pensions but a common pot with a form of accountability and solidarity. When you charge by the city or the municipality the salary of the sick person who cannot take his pension, the cost is direct and it is totally contrary to the solidarity aspect between the local authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u168	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u169	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1880/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1880/4) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u170	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole will take place in a few moments. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place in a few moments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u171	I have received amendments from the government to the draft programme law, No. 1875/1. I have received government amendments on the draft programme law, No. 1875/1. I propose that the amendments be sent back to the Committee on Social Affairs. I propose that you refer these amendments to the Committee on Social Affairs. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u172	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 22 June 2016, I also propose that consideration be given to: - the bill (Mrs Catherine Fonck) amending the Law of 19 August 1948 on the performance of general interest in peacetime, in order to ensure, in the event of strikes by the public authorities, that certain benefits of federal public interest are carried out, No. 1907/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u173	- the legislative proposal (Mr Raf Terwingen) on the case-by-case consultation of professional secrecy holders, No. 1910/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u174	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 22 June 2016, I also propose that you take into account: - the proposed law (Ms. Catherine Fonck) amending the Law of 14 August 1948 on peacetime public service benefits, aimed at guaranteeing the performance of certain federal public service benefits in the event of a strike in the public service, No 1907/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u175	- the proposal for a law (Mr Raf Terwingen) on the consultation of cases organised between professional secrecy depositors, No 1910/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u176	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u177	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u178	Mr President, I would like to speak very briefly because I did not have the opportunity to be present earlier in the discussion on this important text. I would just like to welcome the fact that this text is being carried by our colleague, Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux. This is a matter of serious concern. I wanted to say this clearly and clearly and say that our group will be at its side to bring this draft, these proposals and this resolution for the future. I thank him again for bringing this matter to our Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u179	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 126 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1134/15) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1134/15) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u180	Mr Devin voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u181	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 129 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1051/9) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (1051/9) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u182	Vote on Amendment No 5 from Catherine Fonck to replace the motion for a resolution. (1625/6) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Catherine Fonck cs to replace the motion for a resolution. (1625/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 44 Yes No. [[74]] No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 131 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u183	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 95 Yes No. 23 No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1625/8) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1625/8) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u184	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1870/5) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1870/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u185	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 75 Yes No. [[55]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1880/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1880/5) Reasons for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-23-54-plenair-ip116x.u186	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the week of 27 June 2016. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sittings of the week of 27 June 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday, 29 June 2016, at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 29 June 2016 at 2.15 p.m.
