ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we agreed yesterday to deal with the agenda as it was before, but the Minister is expected to discuss budgetary control. He suggested that we should deal with the questions on budgetary control first, and that we should not deal with the other questions on the agenda until after the holiday. Perhaps there are fellow Members who would like to turn their oral question into a written question so that the Minister can give them the written answer? Otherwise they will have to wait until the first week after Easter. The Minister has the answers with him, I suspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u2	Mr President, I would like to inform you in the course of the sitting of the oral questions that I agree to turn into written questions, but, frankly, today we have learned that Minister De Block, Minister Peeters, who also have important responsibilities in the context of budgetary adjustment – new savings in social security have been announced – would not be available for Parliament. The Minister of Finance deserved to be here. We will have a debate on tax revenues that do not come back. But for the rest, he tells us we'll be back in almost a month. In terms of respect for Parliament, even if we can get written answers to the questions, this indicates a real problem in this government's operating culture. I'd like to do it, and I'm sorry. It is true that I appeal here to the Chairman of the Finance Committee to cancel the sitting of the Social Affairs Committee, but, overall, Parliament continues to function even if the government has a major budgetary problem. There is a real difficulty of control capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u3	As you know, I am very open to all parliamentary comments, but yesterday the Minister was asked to question the Minister about the budgetary consultation. He is prepared, and has himself suggested, to speak to Parliament on this dossier. That's how we do it. The other questions will then be postponed until after Easter. Everyone has to see what they are doing with it, and we no longer need to discuss it. Mrs. Temmerman, now what you asked for yesterday is happening.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u4	Absolutely. Thank you for that. If we translate our questions into written questions, will we receive the answers immediately?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u5	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u6	Then I'll be sure to translate my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u7	Then report it to the committee secretary. If there are pressing questions you say: I absolutely want the answer today, the Minister will give you the answer. Otherwise, it won't happen until after the holidays. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we deal with the questions in the order in which they have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u8	Mr. Minister of Finance, the main issue today is the question of tax revenues. We see significant shortfalls in VAT, professional prepayments and advance payments. I would like to ask you to what extent these shortcomings are not due to your policy. Are the reductions in professional discount and VAT not caused by a government policy that impoverishes workers in a global way? These are not only fiscal measures, but also other measures such as index jumps, attacks on public services, social security. In my view, this policy has an impact on household consumption and their incomes. In that billion that the government would have found, there is a series of tax revenues that the monitoring committee had taken away, like real estate investment companies, the diamond tax, the Cayman tax, and that you are taking back as such. How do you justify that, what the monitoring committee withdraws, you take it back? You enter these revenues in the budget, the monitoring committee withdraws them and then you take them back. What is the next step in this coming-and-coming? How do you justify this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u9	Minister, obviously the major manoeuvres are under way within the government as part of this fiscal adjustment. It is to such an extent that it is impossible to have the active presence of a number of ministers in committee. You come to us briefly to shed light on one aspect of the problem. Mr. Reynders didn't go on a mission. Mr. Michel has postponed his departure for Asia. All of this underscores a real disorder within the government. I share this concern when I read the report of the monitoring committee. I think he was very kind to the government. I'll come back. Minister, I am concerned about page 9 of the document and the assessment made by the monitoring committee. As far as the federal authority is concerned, one of the problems, perhaps the most important cash, is the failure to collect tax revenues to the tune of EUR 1.6 billion. This is your responsibility, as I said in plenary last Thursday. In particular, the Minister of Finance is responsible for the proper collection of the tax. You did not agree to our request to receive the members of the monitoring committee and the Minister of Budget, but you are here today. We need to know where this revenue gap of EUR 1.6 billion comes from. Do you confirm this number? Was there a pass trick because every day that passes brings its lot of new evaluations. This is a problematic indicator. I think it is linked to the means that have not been granted over the years to the proper collection of tax, in particular corporate tax, and to the inability of the tax administration to recover amounts due. Indeed, staff members needed to do so are not in place. In terms of tax revenue mechanics, there is still a problem on which you need to shed some light. On the other hand, the major manoeuvres began with a challenge by the government to the assessments of the monitoring committee. I find that this committee has been kind to the government by accepting questionable items in revenue. The government considered the monitoring committee to be very hard. But you must, Minister of Finance, enlighten us on different lines of your budget. With regard to permanent tax regularisation, you have clearly decided to move forward without taking into account the opinion of the Council of State. Do you really think that what was decided in the government on Friday is resisting the analysis and criticism that we cannot clearly identify the revenues owed to the Regions and those due to the federal state? To my knowledge, there is still no agreement with the federated entities on the distribution of revenues. How are you going to get through this? How can you guarantee 250 million euros? On VAT and school buildings, several colleagues asked you in a previous committee. There is still no agreement by the European Commission on the mechanism in place. I saw that you had written, to the great fury of the party of the chairman of the committee, to all the schools, at least in Flanders, to tell them the good news. Is this mail expected to generate 100 million additional revenues? I asked you, two or three sessions ago, about the status of disputes with the intercommunals and how many of them had obtained rulings that would exempt them from corporate tax. There is here for 200 million revenue that you consider certain. Excuse me, but I doubt it. The Cayman idem tax; for the diamond tax, do you have fresh news from the European Commission, with which you are negotiating? As far as the taxation of capital gains is concerned, everyone says that the measures taken by the government are not credible. As far as institutional sicafis are concerned, you expect EUR 250 million; some believe it will cost rather than pay back. However, the monitoring committee accepted this recipe. Obviously, you're pretty bad at it. We have to get out of denial. So, given your commitments as Minister of Finance, how are you going to make sure that the revenues due are actually paid, that the expected revenues come back? Are you going to make a part of the effort or are you relying solely on your colleagues Peeters and De Block to cut more in social security? Can you give us an update on the state of the government's discussions on fiscal adjustment?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u10	Mr. Chair, Minister, last Thursday we had a tough debate with the Prime Minister about the figures provided by the monitoring committee. Today, you come back to us and I want to thank you for that. Of course, your presence will not allow us to anticipate the decisions the government will make, but at least we have an opportunity to have an exchange with you and to take stock of the situation. Since last week, the information that percolates in the press leaves me particularly dubious. Initially, there was an effort of $3.2 billion to be made, and then, according to the Prime Minister, there was a fairly rapid arrival of $2.2 billion. After a few subtractions, and without any action being taken, the figure is now 1.3 billion. I do not want to be disparaging for anyone, but I must admit that at this very moment, the budgetary control of this government makes me furiously think at the end of the seventies, a time when the Minister of Budget was Guy Mathot whose philosophy was to say that a deficit was going and coming, it was growing and sinking on cyclical trends. Here we have the impression that the deficit is finally very variable and that from day to day we can have bad news or good news. This kind of budgetary nonchalance later translated into years of austerity to try to correct the perverse effects of this indolence. I hope we are not there, but I need to be reassured about the seriousness with which the government is conducting this work in the context of fiscal adjustment. I am not going to read in detail what I asked through the question tabled because things have changed a little in the light of the current situation. However, when the monitoring committee provided the figures, you, Minister, said in the media that the FPS Finance estimation model is clearly not sufficiently precise and that the tax revenue monitoring mechanism within the FPS Finance should be strengthened. The Chair of the FPS Finance Steering Committee, himself, confirmed your analysis and admitted that a lack of staff was the cause of these errors, but that the framework had been expanded and recruitments were under way. There is obviously a concern in the monitoring of revenue as there is in the monitoring of expenditure. I remember that at the end of the discussions on the 2016 draft budget, prominent members of the majority argued, here in this committee, for a very close monitoring of expenditure. We are far from it! Minister, what is the difference between the budget forecasts and the latest estimates you are currently working on? Are these figures taken into account by the monitoring committee or are you taking your distance from them? How much does the lack of tax revenues amount to? What is the cause of these differences? How much do you estimate the lack of staff in the relevant FPS Finance services? When will the officer cadre be fully completed? What is the government's position on respecting the fiscal trajectory and returning to balance for 2018? We've seen a little floating. Is this one behind you? Has the government taken a clearer position? I asked you a few days ago about the medium-term objective set by the Commission with the possibility of reducing this objective. You told me that there had been no official notification. I guess, in the meantime, there was no more. These are some of the questions I have with my colleagues about the budgetary work being done within the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u11	Mr President, Minister, we are generally faced with this opposition to fiscal policy between the left-wing governments, which pursue a social policy but are irresponsible from a budgetary point of view, and the right-wing governments, which advocate anti-social austerity policies, but which show budgetary rigour. In the present case, we have the impression that the current government is in full disrepute, as it is pursuing both a very harsh austerity policy and a total lack of budgetary rigour. It is all the more surprising of you that you were moralizing the Greeks by urging them to be strict, the Greeks who, I remind you, were trying to save a catastrophic social humanitarian situation. She always is. But you, on the other hand, are pursuing a policy of lack of budgetary rigour. Why? It's not for the good of the population. It's to carry out a policy of gifts to multinationals, to the richest. It is appropriate to recall it as a preamble. Minister, has the assessment of corporate tax revenues been too optimistic in Budget 2016? You will recall that, during the debates, we asked you questions. We thought you were going a little hard. Can you agree with us on this point? Do you confirm, as the Monitoring Committee points out, a poor assessment of the impact of notional interests on the budget? How do you explain it? Can you tell us how much this tax expenditure was estimated in 2016? Indeed, we do not have this data. It is not included in the inventory of tax expenditures. Of course, it would be too early, but we have pointed out in another question that corporate tax expenditures do not appear. Do you not find that the lack of budget implementation justifies even more the recovery of the 700 million euros – which in the meantime became 942 million euros – of illegal aid from the excess profit rules? Would that not be a simple enough way for the government to fill this gap? Do you think that the missing revenue is calling into question the budgetary objective of returning to balance in 2018 or are you taking a step backwards from this objective? Did the VAT increases not have a greater negative impact on consumption than expected? I had already asked you the question several times. You told us that the elasticity of VAT increases had been assessed. How has this elasticity of VAT increases been calculated in the budget? Could the problem come from there? Is this "hole" not right for parliamentarians who, in the debates on the 2016 budget, felt that the budget was too optimistic? This is in line with a question I have already asked. Finally, with respect to FPS Finance, do you feel that there are problems with the reorganization of these services? I am thinking of the consolidation of VAT revenue and contribution revenue. I have heard that there are many problems with tax collection. I am also thinking of the services involved in the calculations used for the budget. Apparently, the administration would complain of a lack of staff, which would also be one of the causes of some errors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u12	Mr President, I thank the Minister of Finance for his presence, while many committees have been cancelled. I think we should be able to point out that the minister is giving us some time. Minister, and through you I am addressing the whole government: you have lost three months. If you had listened to the opposition during the debates in the Finance Committee, you could have avoided the hustle and bustle in which you are now plunging the country. Budget marasm and political marasm, given the cacophony that reigns within the government. Indeed, the opposition, and the Socialist Party in particular, had pointed out the clear remarks made by the Court of Auditors, which challenged the assessment of tax revenues (e.g. ordinary tax revenues, corporate taxes), which recalled the problem of advance payments, which pointed to the overestimation of the performance of the new measures, considering that they were completely subject to bail. According to the Court of Auditors, there was also a lot to be said about primary expenditure. And then the overrun of the index-pivot was underlined by the Court of Auditors, by reference to the Office of the Plan. To this, we added the fact that you had ruled out – as in the 2015 budget – the tax administration records. You didn't take that into account either. In addition, I remind you that I have always told you that we cannot achieve a 25% increase in corporate tax revenues, i.e. EUR 2.5 billion, in a context of growth as low as we are currently experiencing. For EUR 1.5 billion, it has been possible to find fairly consistent explanations, in particular through the fall in the rate of OLAs (linear bonds) which results in a decrease in the budgetary impact of notional interests. On the other hand, for one billion, no explanation was given. It's not normal. Corporate taxes cannot be increased by 25% in light of current growth, which is very low. In the same way, we warned you. Your overestimation of the efficiency of the increase in VAT on electricity is not resistant to analysis. Where the Office of the Plan told you that it could bring about 530 million, you announced about 1.2 billion in the budget, with a basic return of the order of 700 million, to which you added twice 250 in the form of technical corrections and invoking other farfetched motivations. In short, you have not listened to the opposition and now find yourself in difficulties. You've got to go after yourself. Given how you manage public finances, maximum pressure has been placed on social security and public services. That is where the real problem lies. Every day that passes, the budget hole decreases. You should be encouraged to continue the budgetary conclave as long as possible, even during the Easter holidays, so that at the end the gap would be closed. You don't make a budget anymore; you do magic! It's totally disconcerting. We could joke if the situation was not so serious, because in the end it is our fellow citizens who will pay the bill. They've already started to do it, and you're about to grow it. My question is very simple. We know you need to find $3.2 billion if you want to meet your commitment to balance in 2018. You say 2.2 billion because it makes it easier for you to refer to the European criteria for reducing the deficit by 0.6% in terms of structural efforts. At the same time, Kris Peeters announces that it will be much more. He is Deputy Prime Minister, not Secretary of State; he is not anyone. It will also be recalled that the tax shift is not funded. The chairman of the committee regularly reminds him of this, and I thank him for that. The National Bank is talking about 6.6 billion. I will be honest and remind you that, for the National Bank, there is a potential return effect that should reduce the bill to $2.2 billion. But be careful, the monitoring committee has already removed a part of it for 2016! This Committee does not itself believe, on the basis of its observations, the forecasts made by the National Bank. The National Bank makes forecasts, the monitoring committee makes observations and already removes part of the return effect. A return effect according to the National Bank? We're asking to see. Get ready for the worst! Are you preparing for it? Or do you manage every week by telling yourself that you will see, every day, what is missing, and that you will collate by making a conclave? Do you have a real budget vision? As others have said before me, the monitoring committee has been very kind to you by continuing to maintain the 250 million tax regularization when the bill has not yet been passed, considering that VAT on school buildings was not going to cost anything when it can be considered to cost EUR 100 million, by not recalling that a number of taxes are now legally correlated – let us not lose sight of the tax on intercommunals, which could, at some point, also increase the bill – and by not talking much about the overvaluation of the Cayman tax, whose budget performance had been multiplied by three, from 120 million to 460 million. Minister, I am therefore very worried. How are you going to get out of this impasse, knowing that interest rates are more in your favor today, and you are well placed to know that. But what if, by 2018 or 2019, there is an increase in the interest rate? It'll weigh your slate. So my questions are very simple. What are your numbers? On what basis are you working and how are you going to get out of the mess?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u13	Mr. Secretary, it may be. I read you a piece from your own work last Thursday as editor-in-chief of Trends. Today, as a minister, you are living at odds with your writings back then. It may also be in a shorter time frame. In this Chamber less than a month ago, when we discussed the results of 2015, you warned about colleagues in the majority, colleagues in your government, who would not do their homework. I am sure Mr Van Rompuy will remember that. You then said pacta sunt servanda and added that you would use the magnifying glass to see if the things you had agreed in the majority had also been carried out. Mr Van Overtveldt, I hope for you that your colleagues in the government have left their magnifying glass at home over the past few weeks. The fact that you are still Minister of Finance may also support that. Your colleagues in the government are actually quite lenient to you. If you look at the monitoring report, you can only be angry at how lax you are in dealing with the state finances as Minister of Finance. There is a derailment, compared to the original target, of 3.2 billion of which you are responsible for at least half, for 1.6 billion. I think that you are becoming increasingly dangerous to the people of our country and that you are placing no more or less than a mortgage on the budget. You are not making the work of your fellow Members any easier. There is a strong gap, ladies and gentlemen, while the Monitoring Committee is actually very optimistic on a number of points. If you add up all the unknowns, the derailment or the problem could be much greater than 3.2 billion. The Monitoring Committee still assumes 250 million euros of tax regularisation, a number of more revenues from e-commerce, your initial assessment of corporate tax for intercommunals, cayman tax, oversight tax, diamond tax, speculation tax and tax on school construction. These are all fiscal measures, which the Court of Auditors has questioned. The Monitoring Committee has not even taken that into account. For example, Minister, it bothers me very much that, while two weeks ago, when you were asking us whether you would make a new assessment of the VAT revenue in school building or whether you maintained the original estimates, you were required to read last week's figures that the Van Overtveldt cabinet recognises that there is a problem with VAT in school building and that a new assessment will have to be made. That is why yesterday we asked the chairman of the committee to hear the monitoring committee in the presence of the Minister for the Budget to really bite us in his report. The circus must stop. After a meeting of half a day or a day at Duchess Valley, the effort is suddenly halved. For the time being, we read that it would not be 3.2 billion but only 1.2 billion. Hocus pocus, apparently you found another 1.5 billion-dollar pot in Duchess Valley. Apparently, half the effort has already been made. I have big questions about that. Minister, do you really think people are stupid? You think they're gonna keep taking this? Who are you actually taking Parliament for and who are you actually taking the 11 million Belgians for? Do you think we believe in fairy tales? My main question today is to be transparent and clear about the effort. How did you get to that sudden halving? What is your response to the Monitoring Committee's report, which is actually a report of your first year and a half as Minister of Finance? What will you do with the many questions that remain besides the Monitoring Committee's report? A quick calculation shows that, if we take all the questions into account, say the worst case scenario, the derailment could amount to EUR 4.5 billion, and if we include additional expenditure on asylum and migration and security, even up to more than EUR 5 billion. So it is time to take things seriously. We can only start with a Minister of Finance, who will ensure openness and honesty in relation to Parliament. In the meantime, Mr De Roover, the N-VA is already laughing at 3.2 billion derailments. I have seen Mr Jambon as the leader of the political group. You were then a columnist and editor, just like Mr Van Overtveldt. Well, I can tell you that if there was then a derailment of several hundred million euros, Mr Jambon did not just break down the barn. But today the N-VA is laughing at a derailment of EUR 3.2 billion; you are laughing at that! That is why I ask you first of all to explain to us how this half-life is to be achieved. Then we can have a political debate on how to solve it, but the starting point must be clear. There are also a number of questions that need to be addressed in the medium term, such as the under-financing of the tax shift and the disappointing growth rates. Then I think it's time for surgery to be serious, and that must come from you seriously, Minister. Should you still write opinion papers for the Trends weekly today, you would be devastating for your own performance. In this case, I think that would be only right.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u14	Mrs Temmerman has the floor for her question on the budget deficit of three billion. You're still mediocre, you're not going to five billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u15	Mr President, we must not crow victory too soon. Let us round off the amount to a deficit of three billion. Minister, I would like to thank you for being here, at the request of many. After all, we are all concerned that there is such a large deficit of EUR 3 billion. In my view, the Monitoring Committee has really reinforced the image of this government, in particular a government that would change everything. Without the socialists, one would quickly get rid of the budget deficit and put order on the ground. CD&V would then lie there to represent the social face of this government. So, what do we see after one and a half years of government? A big gap in the budget. We also see that, on the one hand, people were asked for all kinds of things, such as the index jump or tax measures, not to mention the increase in electricity bills, and, on the other hand, we note that, despite all this, there is a gap in the budget of three billion, and indeed, Mr President, I am still mild. Minister, I have a number of questions. First of all, where did this money go? Where's the money you took from the people? Your first answer still bumps into my chest. You replied that it was the fault of the administration that had not counted well and had overbooked revenue. I would like to point out that the administration has admitted that there are a number of problems in monitoring a number of cases. That's right. However, you must also admit that the same administration has warned you for months that some things were overrated and others underestimated. As several fellow Members have mentioned in the budget debate a few times, not only does the opposition say that, but also the Court of Auditors and the European Commission. You have either not answered it or you have said that we were all wrong. I would like to ask you one clear question about the caiman tax. You always defend the criticism of the Cayman tax by saying that even the National Bank would have said 460 million is an understatement. My group leader asked you clearly during the plenary session whether you could give us the report of the National Bank stating that 460 million is underestimated. I therefore ask you, because we must have the right figures, to please give us that report in which the National Bank says 460 million for the caiman tax would be an understatement. Minister, you remember, you promised people an extra 100 euros. First you said 250, then it was 150. At first, it was for everyone, then only for a few people. Now there is a gap in the budget. Your tax shift, the chairman has already referred to it a few times, has still not been financed. By 2020, the deficit would reach at least 8 billion. Do you know what the big surprise is? This government would put things in order and would be a recovery government from day one. She was gonna show me how to do it. But now, hocus pocus, the gap in the budget is suddenly halved. Instead of 3.2 billion, you must find 2.2 billion. That would be enough for Europe. The 650 million earmarked for asylum and migration will not be counted as structural costs, but as one-off costs. Minister, I believe that the costs of the asylum crisis are not one-off costs, just for this year, but that they will last for a while. The 400 million for the fight against terrorism would also be seen as one-off costs. That's kind of cynical, considering yesterday's events. A whole series of measures that were rejected by the Monitoring Committee will still be re-subscribe. You keep talking about 100 million of the redesign. Several colleagues have repeatedly asked in different committees what that means. We have still not received an answer, but you are still holding on to it. The fact that there is no legislative text for the 250 million of real estate companies seems to be no problem for you, because you will continue to register this amount in the budget. Minister, it has often been said that when you were a journalist you would say it differently, but every journalist and every sane person in Belgium will say that this is persistent in anger. Despite the fact that the Court of Auditors, the European Commission, the opposition and your own administration warned you about this months ago, you continue to do so. You apparently consider the members of the Monitoring Committee to be people who do not know what they are talking about. They are the budgetary experts of our country here. I find it inconceivable that you should dismiss their criticism. Mr Minister, I have a few simple questions. Firstly, I have already asked you the specific question of whether you can give me the report of the National Bank in which the revenue from the caiman tax is estimated to be higher than 460 million. Secondly, is it true that the government will not make the maximum effort of 3.2 per cent, but will limit itself to 0.6 per cent improvement for this year, as Europe demands? Thirdly, is it true that the government will regard the 650 million for asylum and migration as a one-off? Fourthly, is it true that the government will regard the 400 million for combating terrorism as a one-off? Fifthly, is it true that the government will re-enter the budget of the measures rejected by the Monitoring Committee, the Court of Auditors and the European Commission? Finally, I would like to quote something we questioned you about a few times last year. Last year, you delayed the collection of taxes in order to improve the budget. However, we are now reading that this would be the case again in 2016. Just like last year, you would postpone the invoicing, the money that people are entitled to, in order to make the budget a little more expensive. Is that message correct?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u16	Mr President, first of all, allow me to explain the figures of the Monitoring Committee, which is ultimately the central document throughout the budgetary exercise. The Monitoring Committee report shows that the effort to be made is between EUR 2.2 billion and EUR 3.2 billion. The difference between these two amounts lies in the objective set and the charging of exceptional costs for asylum and migration. Based on the structural effort of 0.6% of GDP that we have to deliver from Europe in 2016, EUR 2.9 billion will have to be found. If we are allowed to keep the exceptional costs of asylum and migration outside the budget, the structural budgetary effort to be made still amounts to EUR 2.2 billion. Depending on the European Commission's final assessment of the extent of the structural effort made in 2015 and which is undoubtedly below what is envisaged in the 2015-2018 Stability Programme, an additional effort will certainly have to be made to achieve the structural balance effectively in 2018. I would also like to make it quite clear at the moment that I cannot, of course, anticipate the discussions and conclusions that have to be finalized in the context of the budgetary conclave. This seems to me to be self-evident, including for the members of the opposition. In response to the question about the medium-term objective, which is the famous MTO, I can give you the following. We have received and are getting very clear signals from the European Commission that, thanks to reforms, especially pension reform, the minimum MTO will certainly be revised downwards compared to the minimum MTO currently at around 0.75 percent of gross domestic product. This clearly means that the European Commission recognises that the sustainability of public finances has improved in the medium term. Otherwise, there would never be a revision of the MTO because of Europe. With regard to tax expenditure and the share of tax revenue earmarked for the federal government in the overall picture, I can say that the deficit in the monitoring committee's present note was indeed estimated at EUR 1.6 billion. The largest correction concerns the adjustment of the estimate for advance payments, in particular to the tune of just over EUR 1 billion. This is due, among other things, to the lower starting base 2015, i.e. more than EUR 350 million lower, which is used for the 2016 estimates. This basis is largely explained by one large one-off advance payment of EUR 400 million by one company in 2014. This advance payment did not repeat itself in 2015. After examination by my policy cell, it has also become clear that it will certainly not repeat itself in 2016. In the meantime, a system is being developed in which companies with the largest advance payments will be monitored permanently in the future. That's part of my analysis of the functioning of the FPS Finance. That analysis is, moreover, I think I recall that some Members have already pointed this out explicitly by the current chairman of the same FOD. The provision for the deduction of notional interest was also completely neutralised by the monitoring committee. The Committee therefore takes the position that tax revenues are no longer expected to increase as a result of the decline in the reference rate for the deduction of notional interest. The previous government was still counting on a €2 billion gain in 2014 as a result of the fall in the interest rate while the reference rate even fell even more sharply. This is one of the reasons why the deficit for 2014 was then adjusted even above the 3% threshold. Other factors have also made it difficult to make good estimates of total corporate tax revenues. We see a clear trend from a shift in advance payments to enrolments. Interest rates and low percentage increases are certainly an important cause. As a result, the actual corporate income tax revenues were multiplied between 2010 and 2015 by a factor of 2.33. This means that they have increased from $2.1 billion to $4.9 billion. On the other hand, advance payments from 2010 to 2015 were multiplied by only a factor of 1.11. This means that they have increased from $7.7 billion to $8.5 billion. Pure VAT receipts are revised in the Monitoring Committee's note from, rounded up, 29.8 billion to 29.7 billion. The adjustment of this estimate is due to the negative revision of revenue 2015 which, of course, form the basis for the 2016 estimate. The 2015 revision was essentially the result of three factors. Firstly, there was the cyclical dip during the last few months of last year with regard to the very strong first half of the year. Secondly, a VAT payment of 150 million in the context of a court case was not paid by the counterparty in time. This is actually a shift of revenue, as this is taken into account as an additional receipt for 2016 in budgetary control. Thirdly, sectors such as catering and tourism have less turnover after the attacks in Paris and the subsequent lockdown in Brussels. In addition, the 2016 budget provides a lower amount for targeted checks following improper use of the reduced electricity tariff. This is due to the legal uncertainty that appeared to exist regarding the correct status of the so-called "mixed user' or "mixed consumer'. The estimates for revenue from various duties and taxes are adjusted downwards by 145 million. This is due, inter alia, to a reduced receipt for the early collection of the long-term savings anticipatory levy. The company tax is also revised downwards by the lower starting base 2015, on which the forecasts for 2016 are, of course, re-based. Revenue 2015 deteriorated by 351 million. The cost of the tax shift 2 at the farm levy was revised downwards by 60 million, which has a positive effect on the estimated revenue in the farm levy. This brings me to the comments on the financing of the tax shift. The reference made each time to the study of the National Bank is a short turning point. If the tax shift has an effect on the budget, it will be a positive effect, through higher employment and by encouraging people to take a job, because the government has significantly reduced the difference between gross and net, especially for the lowest wages. First, the National Bank's study did not charge certain measures because they were not sufficiently defined at the time. In any case, all planned measures to finance the tax shift should be implemented in due course, with the aim of effectively achieving the expected returns. Furthermore, the National Bank considered the joint government, while our calculations are about entity I. You certainly do not hear me deny that the tax shift has no budgetary effect on entity II. That is the way our tax system was designed. The Sixth State Reform chose to make the tax autonomy of the Regions dependent on the federal personal income tax, in particular the income on personal income tax. The Regions and the municipalities can choose to compensate for this, or they can contribute to the tax reduction for the people. In addition, there is a whole range of other federal government measures with a positive impact on entity II's budgets. I am thinking, for example, of the index jump. Fourthly, let me point out that the National Bank also includes the welfare envelope in its estimates when it does not fall within the scope of the tax shift but is financed from the budget. In this context, I would also like to add that our tax shift gets good points and even very good points from renowned international institutions such as the IMF and the European Commission, which congratulate us on finally tackling the too high burdens on work. The fall in the burden, particularly on low wages, is seen as having a positive impact on the employment rate of vulnerable groups, of which certainly also young people with all the positive consequences that this entails for these groups which are currently highly disadvantaged. This will also help to clean up public finances as more people will be able to contribute and social security will be used less, not to mention the positive impact on the competitiveness of our businesses, which is all the benefits to our economy. The tax shift is therefore not the problem, but a solution that contributes to a balanced budget. However, that is not enough. The figures presented mean that a very serious effort is needed for 2016 to keep the budget on track. Further efforts will certainly have to be made in the coming years to achieve the goal of a balance on a structural budget by 2018. As far as the dividend to be collected from the National Bank is concerned, I must tell you that there is not yet a fixed amount. The National Bank publishes its results and the related beneficiary allocation on 23 March. Only on that day will the amount of the dividend be known due to the fact that the National Bank share is listed on the Stock Exchange. In the meantime, and for the purposes of budgetary control, we use internal estimates that do not come from the National Bank. During the preparation of the 2016 budget, an amount of EUR 240 million was entered, representing 70% of the previous year's amount. On the basis of the various parameters, however, we expect that the dividend reduction compared to last year will be smaller than that. This can be seen in the BNP Paribas press release of 5 February. As a result, the expected gross receipt for the Belgian State was revised from 186 million euros to 286 million euros, including 27 million euros of withholding tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answer. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the questioners be given the opportunity to replicate one or a half minutes each, as the Rules of Procedure require.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u18	Minister, with regard to errors in advance payments, you refer the blame to the FPS Finances and you say that this will not happen again in the future. I wish I'd heard from you about the cause of these problems. Is it not one of the causes of these errors to reduce the number of staff at any point in time in the public services and in particular the FPS Finances? I asked you about the recipes. You didn't answer that. The same applies to notional interests. You say that the monitoring committee did not accept the increase in revenue due to the lower rate. But you don't give an explanation, you tell us things we already know. With regard to the expenditure considered exceptional by the European Commission, it is difficult to say that migration is something exceptional and not structural. It is clear that this is not going to disappear at once. This is an extraordinary blindness. I remind you, Minister, that even if they are considered exceptional by the European Commission, we will still have to pay these expenses ourselves. The hole's here. With regard to the tax shift, you say that this is not the problem but the solution. I think that this is still largely a problem, because it is not a neutral operation at budgetary level. This is not a simple transfer of taxes, where taxes are increased on one side and others are reduced for the same amount. No, there is an intruder in this tax shift, the gifts of several billion euros that have been given to employers. This is what is keeping the budget at bay and making the tax shift unpaid to the tune of more than €6 billion. What I remember from your answer is that it is the fault of the others, of the FPS Finances, of the monitoring committee. You don't say it openly, but you're finally criticizing the way the monitoring committee sees things. It's always someone else's fault. But, to hear you, all the problems that cause this hole are temporary problems, which will be solved in the future. It is enough to wait for the situation to improve. As you will hear, the next budgetary control will no longer show any slippage. We'll even be a bonus! Given the answers you provide on all the points, the monitoring committee is wrong and you just have to wait because the result will be extraordinary. This blindness that you had already shown in the 2016 budget, you repeat it. Again, you convince yourself that everything is fine! But let me tell you, Minister, that the magic wand is not part of the Minister of Finance's panoply!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u19	Mr Finance Minister, it is not because one hides or denies a problem that it does not exist! We have a budgetary problem and either you are not aware of it – but you are a brilliant person – or that suits you well! It's a hypothesis you must be able to make! You have spoken more in your capacity as Minister of Budget than as Minister of Finance. We have already experienced this situation in previous discussions. For me, it's problematic! Where is the Minister of Budget? Does anyone control you and all the members of the government with respect to the commitments that have been made and that are not being fulfilled? Is the Minister of Budget hiding? We asked yesterday, with my colleague Calvo, for his presence and that of the monitoring committee today. She could, in my opinion, have cleared her agenda. But you're in the middle of it – does the government as a whole agree on this? – a role that is not yours, especially when you comment on trajectories. Your role as Minister of Finance is to ensure that, on the one hand, tax revenues due, because of pre-existing tax rules, are returned and to organize your administration so that it functions both in the assessment of revenues and in the proper collection of revenues, and on the other hand, to do what you have committed yourself to in the context of the financing of the tax shift. In this regard, you are much less talkative than on general principles. In view of the essential question of the collection of tax due, not a single word! Every year, significant revenues are not available from the Treasury, because we are not able to organize ourselves to ensure that those who owe money pay it. As far as notional interests are concerned, you seem to say that we overestimate the effect of the rate drop, but others had done so and worse before us! Excuse me, this is an explanation that I cannot agree with and I am certainly not accountable for the actions taken by the previous governments that I was also criticising! As for the decline in VAT and contribution revenues, these are important indicators of the state of an economy. A functioning economy naturally generates VAT revenues and new social contributions because more people work. At the same time, you tell us that the tax shift works and will work even better and you have to see – it is the report of the National Bank, the report of the monitoring committee that says so, as well as you yourself – that revenues are declining, which shows that the confidence of investors and consumers is not there. So your tax shift, despite your persuasion efforts, this magical government thought, does not work. Moreover, in relation to the questions asked, clearly, on the permanent tax regularization, on VAT on school buildings, on the income from corporate tax for intercommunals, the Cayman tax, the diamond tax, the taxation of capital gains, you do not bring us – that was already the case three or four months ago – no answer a little clear and engaging on the fact that this time it will work and that the revenues will come. Your answer is "a little more of the same." This does not work, but the momentum will be further strengthened, when we need to change course and change fiscal policy. My group has put forward alternative proposals – it was a risk of doing so – to the state's multi-annual budget. Tax systems and corporate taxes must be urgently corrected; there must be a better contribution of capital income, a somewhat effective fight against tax evasion. I remind you by the way that you inherited the skill a few months ago and we still don't see anything coming. We need to deal with the issue of corporate cars, there's a lot to do, but we need to focus the premium reductions better than you did in the tax shift. But there is no question at your level of what you have done so far, and that is particularly worrying. You are like the conductor of the Titanic: the boat runs into the iceberg but you continue to play the violin. We're really worried!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u20	Mr President, Minister, I will not go so far as to say that you are Guy Mathot's spiritual son. It would not please either one or the other. However, I cannot help but stress this form of nonchalance in relation to the gravity of the figures. If I have to summarize your message, it's all right, Mrs. Marquise. You have invoked a whole series of somewhat explanatory elements. You mentioned the asylum seekers. The latter have good backs! No doubt their number is at the root of Belgium's budgetary problems! You referred to court decisions that were not enforced until the end of 2015 and that were carried forward to the following fiscal year. You mentioned the attacks in Paris and Brussels. As far as entity 2 is concerned, you refer the problem to the Communities in a way by stating that the Communities, the Regions and the municipalities have only to deal with, that they can compensate for the tax shift, that they have benefited from the index jump. Behind all this is a form of lightness that I do not explain. Finally, you welcome the Commission's positive assessment of pension reform. But I fear that the Commission will catch up with you soon enough. You welcome the IMF's positive assessment of the tax shift. In my opinion, Mr. Minister, you are delusional. But it won't last much longer. With respect to the tax shift, you used a formula that was not the problem but that was the solution. I wonder to what extent one could not question - not with respect to you because I do not want to customize or even with respect to the couple you are forming with Mrs Wilmès - about this government's fiscal control. Is that the problem? Is that the solution? In any case, I listened to you today and I did not hear any solution. For my part, I still think that your short-sighted flight is part of the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u21	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the few things you have provided us. I note, first of all, that you do not dispute the 3.2 billion effort to make if we want to achieve balance by 2018. This means that if you do not reach this figure today, you will have to find the additional amounts in the coming years, which will be in addition to other amounts. It should be remembered that the tax shift is not funded by 2020 and that, in doing so, the slate will grow no matter what you do. But I remember the 3.2 billion effort to reach balance in 2018. It's an important piece of information. If I follow you, in view of the figures you keep for your conclave, you will continue to put the dust on the carpet and to postpone, until later, the problems. On the other hand, you point to the problem of poorly estimated tax revenues and you have made an inventory of a whole series of explanations. In particular, you raised the issue of moving advance payments to enrolments due to lower interest rates. But that was already predictable at the time of the budget. I apologise for having to tell you that this is a beginner's mistake. On the other hand, another beginner's mistake was to place 100 per cent in advance payments, i.e. in immediate revenue, in the year of the adoption of a measure, all the performance of the new corporate tax measures. We told you and you didn't listen. You don't have to, you can't put 100% into advance payments. The rule is 80%. You have not heard, and I can refer to the parliamentary document which proves that we have said so, as well as to the general statement of the budget, where it appears clearly in the synthetic tables. Again, it is a mistake, but it is no longer a mistake, as soon as it is pointed out and you persevere. In other words, on the issue of advance payments, you have to blame yourself. This is a big problem as it accounts for a lot of the 1.6 billion euros in tax revenue that is missing. The responsibility of the government is engaged. There is the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Budget, but in the end, it is the Prime Minister who must assume before Parliament the truthfulness and seriousness of the budget. This is a major political act. It is the responsibility of the entire government that is engaged. I come to another point that you did not mention. Finally, you keep acting like it doesn't exist. This is the exaggerated efficiency of the measure to increase VAT on electricity. Here, too, you are caught up in the facts. It's not because the monitoring committee doesn't point it out that you don't have to worry about it. You're going to have a very bad surprise. And maybe you'll get it for a next conclave before the end of the year. Here too, it may be time to tighten the bolts a little bit. As for the National Bank and the €6.6 billion unfunded tax shift, you tell us that the tax shift is going to bring back. That's not what the National Bank says. She says that €6.6 billion is missing that can be degreased if the return effects are taken into account. But the National Bank itself told us that it did not take into account all the elements related to government policy only in estimating the impact of the tax shift on government accounts. Here too, I invite you to keep a small buffer, a small mattress or shock absorber to avoid bad surprises. In fact, the more you push back the problem, the more you build up the efforts you will have to make in 2018-2019 in a climate that, in my opinion, will experience more tensions than today, tensions that already exist within the government. I don't need to draw you a picture. Another point is that you are not talking about the decline in the yield of the fight against tax fraud. EUR 500 million less than in previous years. And why? Because since the beginning of the government, this is clearly not a priority. This competence has been reassigned. A note has been filed. Some on the right, on the Open Vld and MR side, have shown reservations about some elements of the plan. But now we are waiting for concrete projects. After two years, it is time to have, not just a plan, but operational measures to combat tax evasion. I repeat, there is already a reduction of 500 million. That's a big problem. You didn't retaliate about the overshoot of the Pivot Index. This is still relatively problematic. It was written. The Bureau of Planning and the Court of Auditors have said so. You end up with an extra slate because here too, you preferred to postpone the problems. You didn't talk about the redesign of the administration. This has been mentioned by some colleagues. I repeat that in my conclusion. You wait 700 million over the period, or even more, but we still don't know how you're going to do it. This too is a problem that will look at the future, since you have incorporated it into your fiscal trajectory. We're talking about the IMF, which distributes good points. I would point out that the IMF, quite surprisingly but so, also suggests having a slightly fairer tax on capital. Obviously, that doesn't seem to interest you. I am absolutely not convinced by your explanations, by those of the government in general. The problems were preventable. You didn't want to take that into account. You've been in denial and you find yourself today with a saltier slate. I say "you," but it's about our fellow citizens. Because finally, if you are going to cut back on social security and public services – and I understand that you do not want to engage here at this stage of discussions within the government – it will again be a decline in the standard of living of our fellow citizens. Social security and public services are not abstractions. These are real benefits that raise the standard of living of our citizens. This is now threatened with your fiscal policy, which looks more like a magic trick than a serious policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u22	Mr Van Overtveldt, your answer was extensive, but you have managed to answer very few questions. I do not want to be naive; I know that budgetary control and how the deficit will be resolved will be discussed in Hertoginnedal. I did not expect you to come forward with concrete measures today. But today's plan was to clarify the starting point of that discussion. Mr President, the Minister has in no way tried to answer that question. Minister, you look surprised, so let us clear it up. Mr Laaouej says that he understands from your reply that you accept the report of the Monitoring Committee in its entirety. So Mr Laaouej interprets your answer in that you accept a budget deficit of 3.2 billion as the starting point for the discussion. However, that is not my interpretation. I may be mistaken, but Mr Laaouej is often good at the matter. So things are not clear to me. It is not clear to me whether you accept that assessment. Of course, Mr Laaouej and I are two different people, each with their own interpretation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u23	If you have a different interpretation than Mr Laaouej, you should talk to Mr Laaouej about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u24	I am only saying this to show that the fog has not cleared up in this matter. The problem is not between me and Mr Laaouej, Minister. You haven't been clear. Please reply carefully and freely to the question whether or not you accept the assessment of the Monitoring Committee. After all, we read in the newspaper that the consultation at Duchess Duchess has already yielded EUR 1.5 billion. The deficit of 3.2 billion has already been reduced to 1.4 billion. Is that right? I am not asking you to tell me that the whole budget issue has been resolved, but what your starting point is. Is that the starting point of the Monitoring Committee? Or are you saying that you disagree with a number of assessments and that the exercise is simpler? That is the only question you have to answer today. What do you think is the starting point for the discussion?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u25	Mr Calvo, we agreed that the Minister's reply should be followed by a replication, but that there would be no debate after that. Mrs Temmerman has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u26	Mr President, we are talking about EUR 1.5 billion! It is about the starting point of the discussion for the budget conclave.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u27	Mr Calvo, everyone has been given the opportunity to replicate, so have you. Say what you have to say and then we will take the next item on the agenda. Suppose everyone asks additional questions!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u28	As far as I am concerned, Mr President, that is fine. By the way, it is not unusual to ask an additional question. I'm repeating my annoyance. It is not clear what the starting point is. Is the deficit 3.2 billion, as stated by the Monitoring Committee, or is it 1.4 billion, the hocus-pocus version of Charles Michel that we read in the newspapers? That's not clear. I believe that this should be clear from the outset. The Minister feels the need to answer that. So let him answer that, Mr President. You have so often called for clarity over the last few weeks, but let the Minister ensure clarity!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u29	The Minister replied, Mr Calvo. Did you make your point?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u30	Suddenly, there is an operation called censorship. The Minister wants answers. We are talking about EUR 1.5 billion. We read in the newspapers that a weekend in Hertoginnedal suddenly produced EUR 1.5 billion, but this finance committee is not clear on this. And you legitimize all this, Mr President? It's been noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u31	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u32	Mr De Roover, I understand that you are bored with this, because this is at odds with everything you promised before the elections. The masks are falling off. I understand you're bored with that. That's perfectly normal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u33	Say what you have to say, Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u34	I'm just getting started!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u35	Mr Calvo, your speaking time is over. Everyone here is treated in the same way. It is not because you are Mr Calvo that you have more speaking time than anyone else. You've been following your time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u36	All this is apparently very annoying for this majority. As an opposition, we are trying to dig up the truth about the budget. We want the people's deception operation to stop, but this cannot be the subject of a serious debate. I will complete my reasoning, Mr President. I note that the Minister also does not address the many questions that remain in addition to the Monitoring Committee's report. Several colleagues warn that the Monitoring Committee is still far too optimistic on certain points. The Minister is also avoiding this debate. My conclusion is that I will conclude my speech, Mr President, because I do not want to make you too nervous about the fact that the Minister is still a bit in denial. We had hoped that this debate would lead to openness and clarity, but the Minister continues to minimize the problems. I regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u37	(...) We must abide by our way of working. If you don't stick to that... because you're wrong (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u38	It's not even about getting right.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u39	Mrs Temmerman has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u40	Mr President, yesterday we asked you to hold a mini-debate. You can see that this might have been a better solution than what we are doing now. Minister, I would like to thank you for your answer, but I would like to add that you have given answers to questions that have not been asked. You apparently prepared something this morning, along with your cabinet and your administration, and you read it. Perhaps you have not listened to the questions that have been asked here, because you have mainly answered questions that have simply not been asked. You did not answer the essential questions. I would like to put a few things straight for a very short time. One of the things you always think is a mistake of the administration is the lack of follow-up. You are now saying that you have instructed your administration to follow the 100 largest companies in Belgium, but, Minister, that has been happening for ten years. So that's not new. That has been happening for ten years and it started with a socialist minister. I understand it's hard for you to admit that. We have asked you three times where the report of the National Bank states that the Cayman tax will yield 460 million? No answer? We can now conclude that this report does not exist and that the National Bank has not said so. What I find most unimaginable is your response to the tax shift. You say that the tax shift is not the problem, while the chairman, sitting next to you, and the National Bank and the Court of Auditors say that there is a deficit of at least eight billion. Yet you say that the tax shift is not the problem, but the solution. Well, that transcends the denial phase! More than that, you say, I have understood a little bit, as Mr Laaouej said, that the deficit of 3.2 billion can be reduced to 1.2 or 2.2 billion for all kinds of reasons, but you are constantly adding that, in addition to the efforts that will have to be made to reach 0.6 this year, a great deal of effort will still have to be made. You admit that there is a deficit of 3.2 billion and that something needs to be done about it, but you are moving the problem forward to next year, to the years after that and perhaps even to the next government, and you are actually saying that there is a deficit, but that others will have to solve it. In addition, you refer once again to the Regions and Communities and local authorities. Mijnheer to minister, we have to do it! There is so much bickering within the government nowadays that there is simply no solution and that is why you decide to move it. You've fooled people, Minister, and now you're fooling yourself and your government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u41	This will enable us to conclude this debate in the interim. The minister has to leave. He had committed himself to staying until 3:00, and it's now 3:30. The other questions will be postponed until after the Easter holidays.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u42	Mr President, can you record the questions that I want to turn into written questions? These are questions Nos 9998, 9999, 10000, 10007 and 10211.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic369x.u43	These questions are therefore transformed into written questions. I invite members who wish to turn their questions into written questions to forward them to the secretariat. Questions Nos 9776, 9773, 9774 and 10022 by Mr. Van Hees are also transformed into written questions.
