ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u1	Mr President, I would like to take the floor in the context of the order of business. I have a dozen combined questions, but those are questions that I had actually put in writing. These are questions in which figures are requested and which have not been answered within the time limit. I have therefore tabled them as oral questions. If I can get the answers, I would like them to be converted back into written questions so that the agenda for you can be slightly lightened. In this way I can also interview Mr Jambon in the Committee on the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u2	That's not a problem for you, Minister? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. 14128, 14129, 14130, 14131, 14132, 14133, 14134, 14135, 14136, 14137 and 14138 of Mrs Barbara Pas are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u3	Minister, in 2014, you announced your intention to reform the corporate code in a comprehensive and comprehensive manner, integrating all economic activities, including commercial activities, as well as social activities and non-profit organizations. In trade law, you announced a preliminary draft in June 2016, during discussions on the proposed law on cooperatives and cooperative and participatory societies (SCOP). However, no text has yet been submitted. A working group of professors from different universities across the country is working on this project. These have, among other things, published a book, I think you were one of the co-authors. Their work then continued at your request. I read the answer you gave to Mrs Fonck a few weeks ago, but I couldn't find answers to the questions I wanted to ask you. First of all, regarding the inter-university working group, what is the status of its work? What directions did you give him? How long do you expect conclusions? What is the current composition of this working group, given that it appears that some participants are no longer active? What is the distribution between French and Flemish universities, but also between universities in general? With regard to the subject matter of this reform, your intention is to remove the distinction between the commercial act and the civil act, all of which becomes an economic act. Do you also intend to incorporate the 1921 ASBL Act into the reform of the company code? What is the future of social societies? What role do you place on cooperative societies in this reform and how do you integrate the possibility of creating SCOPs? Are the criteria such as the size of the structures for the NSAs and foundations included? The 1921 law has been awaiting changes and changes for a very long time. By introducing the accounting reform of companies on November 18, 2015, on the day of the Accounting Standards Commission, you announced that this adaptation of accounting legislation, including the ASBLs, is a priority for you. I would therefore like to know what the plans are. Are you planning to submit them soon for discussion or will this take place during the discussion on the reform of the Corporate Code? The removal that you are considering of the difference between the commercial act and the civil act will have a direct impact on the modalities of taxation of non-profit organisations. Are you planning to associate changes in corporate and corporate taxes with this reform of the Corporate Code? The last "combined" question relates to the digitization of documents. Currently, for companies, associations and foundations, it is not possible to introduce via the e-greffe application publications in the Monitor in relation to statutory amendments or other compulsory publications, with the exception of files for the creation of associations and enterprises. Only notaries have the possibility to introduce all publications via the Internet. This impossibility does not make it possible to reduce the congestion of the court's registries since it is necessary to go through this and causes delays in the transfer of data between the registries, the Monitor and the Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises. Is there any reason why this is not possible today? Are you afraid of fraud? Is this fear at the root of this delay? If so, what procedure do you put in place to address this risk? What is the calendar of this famous digitalization?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u4	I only come to the committee once in a while, because the law on non-profit-making belongs to your jurisdiction. As a result of the reform of the Company Code, it is envisaged to modernise legislation for associations and foundations and to include them in a code of conduct together with company law. That's how I understood it. That would not require much intervention, because they are already well aligned. Last year, the European Accounting Directive was also transposed into national law. This has ensured, inter alia, that the thresholds for the small company, in particular the obligation to draw up consolidated accounts and the explanatory requirements, are amended. Those amendments shall apply only to companies and not to associations. A few weeks ago, there was a study day of the Accounting Standards Commission. A translation of the company's amendments to the associations and foundations has been announced. Is that right? Who's qualified to do that? What is the status of the file? What's the timing? The integration of association and company law into the Code of Companies and Associations may give rise to concern among the associations, who fear that they will face more obligations and additional responsibilities for the volunteers. What's the progress on this initiative? Has there been any consultation with the sector? What is the result of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin by answering Mrs Gerkens' questions. Madam, I intend to complete a first martyred text for societies before the end of the year, and I hope to be able to table a bill in the House in the course of 2017. I refer to the exchange of ideas we had with your colleagues in the Committee on Commercial Law and Economy on 6 October 2015. The proposed reform guidelines can be summarized in six points. First, the removal of the distinction between civil and commercial cases and the concept of profit-making. Secondly, the reform of partnerships. Thirdly, the reform of capital companies. Fourthly, the removal of the distinction between public and publicly traded companies. Fifthly, the introduction of the doctrine of the registered office with the possibility of cross-border transfer of the seat. Sixthly, the structural integration of the law of associations into a single code of societies and associations. As a reminder, the working groups vary in composition according to the specific topic. A company law working group composed of Professors Foriers, Nellisen Grade, De Wulf and Wyckaert is at work. The work is followed by all Belgian company law professors gathered within the Belgian Centre for Company Law, which is currently chaired by MM. Horsmans and Gods. The law of associations will be structurally incorporated into a single Code of Companies and Associations. This will require only limited intervention, since the two legal systems are to a large extent de facto harmonized. The association will continue to exist as a de facto entity or as a legal person, with an international variant in the latter case. The foundation will be maintained. It is therefore clear that the specific nature of the law of associations will be taken into account. All objectives that can be achieved through a social society can also be achieved through an approved cooperative or cooperative society. It is therefore preferable to abolish society for social purposes as a separate form of society, but the discussion is certainly not closed as to this. The limited liability cooperative society will continue to exist as a separate legal form in which action is taken on the joint effort of members and/or the common service of members from a long-term perspective. For the rest, the SCRL regime must be, for the most part, parallel to that of SPRL. In this context, I do not believe that a separate legal form of cooperative and participative society is, at first sight, necessary. With regard to the NSOs, the NSOs (International NSOs) and foundations, discussions in the context of the planned modernisation are under way. Without wishing to anticipate, it goes without saying that the thresholds for the NSOs are reviewed in the light of the company thresholds. As companies and associations will be incorporated into a single code, these texts will be presented together to the House. The reforms will have no impact on the tax rules. Finally, as far as the IT services of my administration are concerned, my administration has developed a module of the amending acts. This is a computer application within the e-greffe for the digitisation of amending acts, which is a second step after the digitisation of the constituent acts. This application is currently in the test phase. Moreover, this module is not yet accessible to the general public, because it cannot be used by a general public because of a lack of large suppliers with a large volume of deposits, so that possible technical problems arise only from the dropper. As far as Mr Vercamer's questions are concerned, the right of association will indeed be integrated into the Code of Companies and Associations. As I said to Mrs Gerkens, associations have their own accounting rights, either according to the model under which small associations have to keep their accounts and draw up their annual accounts, or for large associations by adapting the common accounting law to the requirements of the particular nature of their activities and their legal status. The extent to which these rules will be adapted or brought together remains to be considered. As the societies and associations are integrated into a code, the rules strictly relating to companies and associations will be integrated into a code of conduct. Although the integration of a code requires only limited intervention, given that both legal systems are de facto well aligned, due attention will be paid to the individuality of the law of association. Integration into a code will not, therefore, necessarily lead to more obligations and additional responsibilities for members and directors of associations. I hope to be able to complete the reform under the current legislature and, as has been said, to submit the texts on company law to Parliament as early as next year. The reform must, of course, be accompanied by a very well-developed transitional law which leaves all companies and associations, which exist at the time of entry into force, more than enough time to find their way into the new law and certainly not unnecessarily burden them with costs and formalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u6	With regard to digitalization, we are in the test phase (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u7	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u8	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is said with great ease, but I would like to stress once again that we must take account of the characteristics of the associations if we are to achieve integration with the reform. Associations have a very different approach and degree of professionalism compared to companies. In the case of integration, we must ensure that we do not burden the associations with a great deal of extra formalities and responsibilities. Volunteers in associations are a very different matter from directors and employees in professional companies. I hope that this will be adequately taken into account and that the sector will be consulted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u10	Question No 13875 by Mrs Stéphanie Thoron is transformed into a written question, as is Question No 13924 by Mrs Carina Van Cauter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u11	Mr President, Minister, you have recently announced in the press a number of amendments to the road safety legislation. Such measures would aim to better detect and punish perpetrators of recidivism more heavily. According to my information, several concrete measures are envisaged, for example, an increase in the number of hours of temporary withdrawal from driving licences from two or three to six hours beyond 0.5 grams of alcohol in the blood. A database of infringements should also be tested from October onwards. It should enable law enforcement agencies to better detect drivers who are not licensed and who continue to drive illegally. Second, drivers who have been withdrawn for medical or psychological reasons may request to recover their sesame if they demonstrate that they are working intensively on their addiction problem or are undergoing appropriate therapy. Finally, an increase in the budget for salivary tests is also announced in 2017. The road still kills too many people every year. It is therefore important to strengthen our sanctions regime in order to maximize the safety of all users. What, therefore, is the planned agenda for the implementation of these various measures? What is the state of consultation with the sector - IBSR, Federal Police, regional mobility actors, etc. - on this subject, in particular in terms of information and awareness-raising for the general public?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u12	Mr President, on the occasion of the launch of the "failure-free week", organised by the ASBL Rondpunt and the Belgian Institute for Road Safety (IBSR), worrying figures were highlighted. Last year, 27 people were killed, 223 were seriously injured and 4,508 were slightly injured in 4,273 personal accidents with the offence of escape. It is estimated that there are about 200 escape offences per day, taking into account accidents with only material damage. In view of this, you have announced your intention, in consultation with your colleague, Minister François Bellot, to tighten the penalties for the offences of flight. Your solution would therefore be to increase the maximum penalties for escaping from two to three years in prison and extend the statute of limitations to three years. However, it has already been demonstrated on several occasions that the tightening of sentences has no deterrent effect. We therefore have reason to doubt that such toughening of penalties affects the behaviour of motorists. With regard to the 200 offences of flight per day, were they convictions or findings? This included the creation of a new carrefour bank called "Mercurius" to combat recidivism; what would it contain as data and how would it be used? What do you think of the opportunity to convene an interdepartmental committee to act on the prevention and follow-up of repeat offenders?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u13	Mr President, Minister, my fellow Members have already outlined sufficiently the communication in September on changes to traffic legislation that you have planned. I shall confine myself to the questions I would like to ask. Would you like to explain the measures contained in the pipeline? What timing do you use for the possible handling of a bill in this House? As far as the Mercury Crossroads Bank is concerned, your fellow Minister for Mobility said in the Infrastructure Committee at the end of April that the Mercury project would be in production by the end of this year. You said in September that it could be tested this month. Can you explain more about the pilot project and its precise roll-out? Is this full roll-out feasible by the end of this year?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u14	Mr President, Madame Ben Hamou, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, Monsieur Calomne, I indeed announced a few weeks ago, together with my colleague in Mobility, Mr Bellot, that in the light of an increase in road safety, we will be tackling certain types of serious traffic offences more seriously. It concerns, among other things, a more rigorous approach to escape offences, driving without a driving licence, driving during the expiry of a driving licence, non-insurance and alcohol intoxication. We propose that some infringements should be punished more severely and that penalties should be imposed more frequently. My colleague Bellot and I are finalizing draft legislation which will then be submitted to the relevant sectors (police, judiciary, federated entities). We expect the bill to be considered by Parliament in the first half of 2017. As far as flight offences are concerned, the figures given last week by the Belgian Institute for Road Safety (IBSR) are significant. Approximately 200 escape offences are recorded per day. These are not convictions but findings made by the police. In 2014, a total of 78,938 driving disqualification convictions were handed down. The statistical data do not make it possible to determine how many convictions specifically relate to the offences of flight. As far as the Mercurius data bank is concerned, I can tell you that, in my view, in addition to the fact that the police, the judiciary and the municipalities will be able to encode temporary withdrawals of driving licences and revocations of the right to drive, it will enable us to know in real time whether the person is temporarily or not deprived of the right to drive. This will mean that the actors concerned will know if the person is deprived of the right to drive. I am thinking above all of the different police areas but also of the communes to which a duplicate of the driving licence would be applied when we are deprived of the right to drive. Operationalisation in the field is planned for the end of 2016. Not only the Department of Justice but also the police and the Department of Mobility are involved. If my department were asked to participate in an inter-ministerial committee to act on the prevention and follow-up of repeat offenders, my answer would certainly be positive.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u15	I thank the minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u16	I thank the minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for my turn. I would like to ask you to continue to pay attention in consultation to custom punishment, within a reasonable time between the offence and the punishment. I'd also like to ask you for punishments that can be carried out. We have repeatedly made the penalties for road offences more stringent in this House. The last one for recidivists. Recidivists are now being punished much more severely. They must now carry out four tests before they get their driving licence back: a theoretical, a practical, a psychological and a medical test. Our legislation should lead to more discipline, not more punishment avoidance. Unfortunately, on the ground, I find that the punishments are so severe, and for some people impossible or priceless, that those people simply start driving again, although they cannot do so during the period of dismay. We must avoid that, and I wanted to say that in this reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u18	Minister, this question is a follow-up question. We have already questioned you several times about the temporary ban on housekeeping in the case of intra-family violence. In a previous reply, you said that in the period 2013-2014 65 offenders of intra-family violence were subject to such a temporary house ban. You have also pointed out that the measure is applied very differently in our districts. In some districts the measure is known and applied. In other districts the measure is apparently still not known. In your reply, you said that the College of Attorneys General would evaluate the circular on the house ban by September 2016. One would consider whether there is a need for legislative changes. You hoped to be able to see the effect of the new directives in this area, referring to the updated version of the COL 4/2006 in relation to partner violence, which means that the police and the courts were given rules to pay more attention to children in domestic violence cases and to state clearly in the CV whether children were living in the family, whether they were present when the violence took place, etc. Are the evaluation of the law and the directive now ready? If so, what are the results? Is there any effect of the updated version of the COL 4/2006? Can you give us any more recent figures on its application in our districts?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u19	Minister, I also have a few follow-up questions concerning the law on the ban and the related circulars. I come immediately to my questions, because they do not require an introduction. You announced an evaluation of the law. How's that going? What are the results? What is the impact of the updated version of the COL 4/2006? As regards the application of the law on the ban on housing, it appeared in the past that the coding directives were not followed correctly. How was that fixed in the meantime? Where is the development and deployment of the risk assessment tool? Previous answers have shown that the prison director in Sidis Suite cannot determine whether the violation of Articles 372 to 387 of the Criminal Code took place within the context of Article 410, i.e. within an intrafamily context. Where are the adjustments in Sidis Suite in order to allow that determination? When will this application be ready? In a previous answer to one of my oral questions, you said that it is your personal belief that perpetrators of domestic violence can repent if not only timely action is taken, but also if they are given appropriate therapeutic guidance to learn how to control and understand the harmful effects of violence. In your view, this assumed sufficient cooperation with the aid sector, for which the Communities are responsible. What steps have already been taken on cooperation with the aid sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u20	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu and Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, on 30 September, when I met with the College of Attorneys General, told me that they could not complete the evaluation investigation and that it will take some time. I have insisted that this should be done with the greatest urgency. As I have said before, it is important that we have a better understanding of the application of the instrument of the temporary ban on housekeeping in the context of intra-family violence, as provided for in the updated circular 2006/4, before any legislative changes or amendments are made to directives. The number of files on temporary house bans introduced by the correctional parquets between 1 January 2013 and 31 December 2015 is respectively 32, 33 and 38 for all arrondissements together for the years 2013, 2014 and 2015. The number of cases of infringement of the temporary ban concerns 10, 14 and 11 cases respectively for each of these years. I will go into more detail on these figures in the context of the reply to Mrs Van Vaerenbergh's written question 1233. In view of the relatively limited number of records recorded, the statistical analysts of the College of Attorneys-General note that this suggests that the coding guidelines are not strictly followed in all correctional parquets. However, the College of Attorneys-General points out that there are no significant problems. Registration should also be reviewed in the framework of the evaluation mission. As regards the risk assessment instrument, I can tell you that this was developed by Thomas More University of Applied Sciences on behalf of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, for which Mr Sleurs is responsible. In addition, letters signed by myself and Mr Sleurs, to the President of the College of Attorneys General and the Director of the Institute of Judicial Training will be sent shortly, in order to ensure that this risk assessment tool is disseminated to the reference magistrates and that the training courses relating to its use are included in the magistrate training programme. As regards the coding of intra-family violence in Sidis Suite, the Directorate-General for EPI states that this specification has not yet been included within Sidis because the knowledge of the facts for which a person has been convicted is already available in another way within the prison where the prisoner resides, in particular on the basis of the content of judgments, the presentation of facts, etc. The prison director can therefore take it into account when making certain decisions on conditional release. As far as domestic violence is concerned, I must add that this is indeed the competence of the Communities. The search for appropriate guidance for perpetrators with a problem of violence control or aggression is a task for the psychosocial service of the prisons, which takes this very closely. Contacts with the sector in this area are broad and constructive. In terms of multidisciplinaryity and cooperation between all levels of government, I believe that the charters recently signed by the competent ministers and other managers of the Family Justice Centers in Hasselt and Antwerp are an example. Of course, the situation becomes more complicated when, in addition to the aforementioned problem of intra-family violence, there are other problems, such as drug dependence or alcohol. In case of double diagnosis, finding an appropriate approach is more problematic. This is a permanent focus in cooperation with the Communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for this state of affairs. I'm a little freaked out by the number of violations. In one of the three cases, there would be a violation of the restraining order. The issue certainly needs to be further examined for an efficient approach by the services. We'll follow up on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I look forward to further evaluation. I have to look at the figures again, also on the basis of the written question I have put to you. I can't help but notice that the restraining order isn't being applied very much. It is very important that it is made more known at the parquets. It can be a very useful tool to discharge a particular situation. Risk assessment can be a very good tool for responding more appropriately to this type of violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u23	Question No 13949 by Mr. Van Hecke is transformed into a written question. Mrs Jadin is not present to ask her question No 13960.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u24	Mr President, Minister, during a traffic check in my province of West Flanders at the end of September, in which police, prosecutors, customs, tax authorities, RVA and social inspection cooperated, the Flemish Tax Administration recovered EUR 20 000 in outstanding traffic tax. For customs, this was EUR 6 000 in outstanding fines and EUR 2 000 in immediate collections for the police. The Veurne Attorney mentioned the collaboration as a first for Flanders and suggested to expand the system, but gaps in the legislation would have prevented the revenues from being even higher. For example, customs can only collect fines from traffic cases. Your colleague Van Overtveldt also recognised this in his reply to a parliamentary question a few weeks ago. Following a pilot project in 2013, all 28 mobile customs and excise brigades currently used the 21 ANPR cameras to track vehicles whose owners still have late payments. He said to work with you on an extension of the system so that all fines are eligible for the use of the ANPR scanners. I have two questions about this. Are you considering initiatives to allow actions, such as those that took place in September in West Flanders, to take place in other arrondissements as well? If so, which one? What is the state of play in creating the possibility for the customs authorities to also collect penalty fines not resulting from traffic cases with ANPR cameras?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u25	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, this action can be described as a success thanks to good cooperation between the various services. As Minister of Justice, I can only encourage such initiatives and hope that the example will be followed in the other provinces. In the meantime, the necessary initiatives have already been taken to allow customs authorities to recover all penalty penalties and not just traffic fines via the ANPR scanners. My policy cell has already drawn up a preliminary draft law to protect the recovery of customs and excise debts in penalty penalties in cooperation with this one of the Finance Ministers. It is currently being discussed in inter-kabinette working groups. The preliminary draft is intended to extend the scope of the current Law of 17 June 2013 on better collection of penalty fines to all fines and to customs and excise debts as well as to simplify the procedure. The preliminary draft provides for the possibility for officials of the General Administration of Customs and Excise who, during a public road check, detect a vehicle whose owner or owner of the registration number of the vehicle still has outstanding fines or debts, to seize the vehicle without first requesting the authorization of the attachment court. The current immobilisation procedure for attachment is indeed quite cumbersome and often leads to high hoisting and storage costs. I hope to be able to take the initiative to the Council of Ministers as soon as possible. The initiative is part of a broader enforcement plan which also provides for the creation of an enforceable title by the public prosecutor, the payment order, so that Finance is better equipped to carry out the recovery and the execution of the replacement prison sentence for those who really persist in the anger of non-payment of its traffic fines.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u27	Minister, the reason for this question is yet another initiative from my province. I'm a little chauvinistic today. In other words, in traffic cases, before a reduction or alternative penalty is given, it is first examined whether fines are still open in the name of the accused. A number of questions have already been asked about the initiative, both in the Committee on Justice and in the Committee on Finance. Minister, in February you referred to the consultation with your colleague Mr Van Overtveldt on the exchange of information between Finance and Justice. The inspection of the Finance database by the staff of the Justice Department was considered as a possible way of thinking. The fact that unpaid penalty fines remain a problem is also reflected in the latest figures released in September. Between 2012 and 2015, judges issued 915 million euros in fines. Of these, only EUR 368 million had been collected at the beginning of September and EUR 547 million had not yet been recovered. What progress has been made on the possibility for the public prosecutors to consult the databases themselves with unpaid fines? If the public prosecutors are not yet able to do so, what practical obstacles still need to be removed and what is the timing? In general, what initiatives have been planned in recent months or are still in the pipeline to automatically exchange data? Until when do the pilot projects run in the police courts of Antwerp, Liège and Brussels? When can we expect an evaluation of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u28	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, as you point out, there is indeed a fundamental agreement between Mr Van Overtveldt and myself to grant the parquets access to the database used by the authorities responsible for the recovery of fines in the FPS Finance. Since that database was set up with a wider end objective, it is not appropriate to grant access to the entire database. Technical discussions on defined access are still ongoing. The issue was discussed at the end of September in the consultative body for the coordination of the recovery of non-fiscal debts in criminal matters. It was agreed to implement this quickly. The pilot projects in Antwerp, Liège and Brussels to send the fines of police courts directly to Finance were concluded positively. It was decided to extend the automatic flow to all courts. On 12 September 2016, all police courts were linked with the automatic flow to the FPS Finance. For the sessions that will be processed from that moment on, the information relating to the fines to be recovered will automatically be forwarded to the FPS Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u29	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Especially the latter part is very positive: at last there is the automatic link between police courts and finance. This will save a lot of work and improve the efficiency of the implementation of penalties.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u30	Mr President, Mr Minister, the Belgian judicial year has been marked by an appeal for the help of the judges and, unfortunately for some or apparently, it is not their duty to reserve that will suffice to silence their anger. In an exceptional and desperate gesture, in my opinion, although I hope that this is not the case, the first ten presidents of the courts of appeal and of the courts of labour have joined forces in a single speech deploring the state of Belgian justice. This is not the first time, in recent times, that we have seen this kind of grunt in the judicial world. We even talked about a strike at some point. At the time, you were reassuring and listening, but today, despite your hasty reforms, the speech of the magistrates does not seem to have softened. At the forefront of their claims is the full filling of the current cadres of judicial and judicial personnel, as well as their association with investment decisions in information technology and electronic communication. The judges were not invited to the table when the protocol on cooperation in computer matters was concluded. It was also without prior consultation that contracts for subscription to the legal documentation of courts and tribunals had been terminated by ministerial decision. I asked you that way at the time. You told me there would be a centralized public procurement in this area. In the words of Attorney General Christian De Valkeneer, justice is missing out on the digital revolution of the 2000s, while the computerization of the Belgian justice system would save money. I understand that he has a lot of interest in certain policies. It is equally distressing to note that some magistrates have had to deliver their speeches under a hanging net on the roof, to protect them from the drop of materials. If you want, I can quote you from the courthouse concerned. Both well-being at work and staff safety are affected by the dilapidation and obsolescence of some justice buildings. I suspect that, in relation to the buildings, you are going to send me back to the minister in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments, but I stress that. So what initiatives will you take to remedy the serious dysfunctions of the justice system pointed out by the mercurial of the re-entry? Do you now intend to respect the principle of consultation by including the judicial authorities in the preparation of the protocol for cooperation in computer matters? Is this cooperation protocol still relevant? If so, when should it be implemented? Can you ensure that, in the context of self-management negotiations, the budget envelope will be serious enough to enable justice to carry out its mission?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u31	Mr President, Mr Massin, in all my actions, I always try to consult with the judicial authorities, and in particular with the two colleges of the Judicial Order. Over the past year, I have worked with colleges on a number of occasions. In addition, the judiciary is closely involved in more specific projects through various working groups. Just three days before the courtback speeches, I met for a full day with representatives of both colleges, including the first presidents and attorneys general. I believe that the first presidents and prosecutors present will confirm that this meeting took place in a very constructive atmosphere. You will understand that I am surprised to hear that I am accused of a lack of consultation. This is all the more surprising when it comes to legal documentation. The dedicated working group, including representatives of the colleges, was made aware of each step taken in the field of legal documentation. The first objective of the Protocol with the legal professions is to establish cooperation between the ICT management service of the SPF Justice and the organisations of the legal professions. The judicial authorities had been informed before. This protocol is currently being implemented with the relevant partners. There is also a protocol on TCI, which had been concluded with the precursors of colleges. With the arrival of colleges and waiting for the implementation of autonomous management, we find ourselves in a new constellation. In the meantime, however, a consultation on TCI has been planned. My strategic cell regularly invites representatives of the colleges for consultation. In addition, there is ongoing consultation with the presidents of the courts of each specialty, as well as with magistrates or clerks in working groups dealing with specific projects. Important steps have been taken in the meantime in terms of computerization, the functioning of the judiciary and its direct partners. In June, I had the opportunity to present three important projects: the introduction of e-box and e-deposit, which should allow the exchange and electronic filing of findings and documents, and the computerization of commercial courts. As far as the implementation of self-management is concerned, I am in consultation with the colleges. The budgetary aspect and the volume of the envelope are crucial points of the discussion, which will obviously be determined on the basis of the transferred competences. It was therefore premature to make statements in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u32	Minister, thank you for your answers. I understand you're astonished by these official speeches. It is not I who say that there is no consultation, it is the presidents of the courts of appeal and of the courts of work. Maybe it's to them you have to turn around. Beyond these speeches, they feel like they are being listened to but not heard! In this case, it is a problem of balance which arises in the context of the consultation between what is taken into account at the level of the remarks which are made. You find that some meetings are very constructive, of which act! Obviously, this does not seem to be the case with the judiciary. Perhaps more pedagogic work needs to be done. I took note of the situation with regard to documentation. As far as the CTI is concerned, we're in the middle of the ford. Unfortunately, in the field of computer science, justice is coming back from afar, or even has not yet come out of the hole. That's what I get from the magistrates I meet. We need to put a special emphasis on this and even give a boost. I was also talking about the framework. You have been questioned many times on this subject, but I would like to return to it. Courts shout starvation, with hearings cancelled simply because magistrates are in burn out, in a situation of prolonged illness. Today, there are no longer enough magistrates to hold all the hearings, and unfortunately it is necessary to abolish them. I hope that this situation will soon come to an end.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u33	Mr Massin, it is rare for me to reply, but as far as computer science is concerned, the Finance Inspectorate has approved the order for 6,000 laptops. On 22 July, we published 70 magistrates' holidays and today, you will still find 45 magistrates' holidays in the Moniteur. Contrary to what you're saying, I'm still listening. At the same time, we are listening to judges regarding vacancies in the Registry staff. As the future is self-sustaining, it is important that the colleges give me their views and give me an indication of the vacations to be declared. Be aware that we are working as quickly as possible in the circumstances. These are more fruitful than you describe.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u34	Mr President, I should like to take it back to Parliament in the end. Ordering computers is a good thing. Some are particularly obsolete. But the most important thing is software. Judges' or clerks' computers are still running on Microsoft Office 97 when there is no longer any proper maintenance or antivirus. It's not only dramatic, it's dangerous. As long as the magistrate works with the computer that was provided to him by the Ministry of Justice, anyone could go steal the deliberate. That's a huge problem. On the other hand, we provide hardware, but you need to know that some computer programs are incompatible. Thus, projects are digitized and transmitted, but cannot be opened or formatted. I can hear you on the frame. You know the province where I come from. In correctional matters, correctional hearings had to be abolished in some courts because there were not enough magistrates (Turnai, Mons and Charleroi seats). I understand that you are opening seats, that the demands are loud, but when the situation persists – I think we are at least nine months away – the problems are getting bigger because some are cracking. Medical certificates are issued, in addition to the fact that certain medical problems must be dealt with urgently, which never only amplifies the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u35	Mr President, Minister, in 2012 the FPS Justice launched a public invitation to tender for the development of an accounting programme for COIV. The COIV manages hundreds of millions of euros, but apparently it did not have its own accounts at the time. A contract of EUR 425 000 was issued for this purpose, according to the annual report. I have already asked you written questions about this. In 2015, you replied to me that there was a delay in implementing the accounting application. This had to do with the migration of historical data and the adjustments to the comments during the test phase. You added that the final application would be put into operation in the course of 2015. You also said at that time that the functioning of the new programme and the results would make it possible to evaluate whether an internal audit is required and to provide added value for COIV. A report was also prepared on the recommendations of the Court of Auditors in 2007. These recommendations would also be examined and it would be checked whether everything is in line with the accounting requirements of a state institution. On 28 September, I again asked a question about this, and you replied to me that the accounting system did not enter into force on 1 June 2015, as was first announced, but that it was suspended at the request of the director of COIV, without a new date of placing in service since then. This means that the old accounting system, which we know is absolutely inadequate, is still in place. According to media responses, the current director of the COIV refers to your cabinet. According to him, a consultant would have been appointed to install the new accounting programme, but his contract was not renewed due to savings. The director also says he hasn't heard from your cabinet since January. Moreover, there would be disagreement over the transition from the old to the new accounting system, in the sense that your cabinet would like the COIV employees to do double work at input. The Director also pointed out that the new accounting programme was fully paid and the supplier continued to send licence invoices of tens of thousands of euros. All this for a program that is not being used! I was told not to believe everything in the paper. Hence, Minister, my next questions. I do not know if all the claims are correct, but I would like to know from you why the accounting system awarded in 2012 and costing EUR 425 000 was suspended. Are there any flaws in that? If yes, were those possible defects from the test phase? If so, why didn't you say anything about it when I asked you a question? Why is there no new date for placing the accounting system in service? I hope, since it was paid for, that it is still the intention to employ it. In view of the Director's statements and the accusations he made, is it true that the consultant's contract was not renewed, which prevented the implementation of the accounting system? Is his accusation that the COIV employees should do double work and that there has been no further contact between your cabinet and himself? In connection with the price for the accounting programme, the amount of EUR 425 000 was mentioned. The question is whether that amount was exceeded, because if I can believe the director, a lot of additional invoices have been submitted, including for licences. How many invoices have been submitted and what is the total amount of those invoices? How much of that has been paid by the Justice Department? I would have liked to have heard your opinion on the whole issue. Why is it that after all these years of preparation there is still no proper accounting system at COIV? I would also have liked to have heard from you what the Director's attitude on that file is. Finally, an important question. The accusations were repeated and therefore I would like to ask whether good cooperation between you and your cabinet, on the one hand, and the current director of the COIV, on the other hand, is still possible after his removal from your address. Will this issue be part of its possible re-appointment? When I asked questions about this in a previous sitting, you did not answer two questions, which I now referred to in my question. These are the following questions. Are you considering an internal audit at COIV? If so, for what reasons? If not, why not? Does the current old system comply with the recommendations of the Court of Auditors on the conduct of an accounting system of a state institution? If not, what solutions can be developed in the meantime?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u36	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, the introduction of computerised accounting is a justified decision, which was already taken in 2015. This was achieved under the leadership of COIV. For this purpose, the necessary budgets were entered in the budget of the COIV, the public procurement was carried out by the COIV and the implementation was fully taken on board by the COIV. The ICT staff of the FPS Justice Department was not involved, except for the provision of the necessary server space, hardware and data connections. Since my arrival we have answered all the questions of support for the realisation of the project as far as possible. From my answer to your other question today on the human resources situation, you will find that the question of staff reinforcement was answered positively. There is also a positive response to the demand for legislation to address a number of structural procedural problems. I hope to be able to present legislative texts to improve certain procedures in Parliament in the foreseeable future. The question of consulting assistance on ICT was also answered positively. An external consultant was made available to COIV for several months to assist with the start-up of the project. In addition, initiatives were taken to digitise and improve the influx of information from COIV in the future. Apart from the introduction of computer accounting, this is an investment which can facilitate faster processing of files. Together with the director, the IT provider, the external consultant and the representatives of my cabinet agreed on a start-up date of the accounting package on 1 June 2015. A refresher training course for users in the supplier's premises was established. It is the COIV that suspended the training and start-up at the last minute. Two elements explain the difficult start-up of the project. Firstly, the excessive ambition to recharge all historic banking operations from the start. You may mean that the accounts have been re-examined since the existence of the COIV in the new accounts. This is unusual when transferring from paper accounting to computer accounting, and it is often an impossible challenge, which also appears here. It is sufficient to take the final balance sheet of the previous accounts as the starting balance sheet of the new accounting programme. Secondly, there was the discussion between the supplier and the customer about whether the computer program was sufficiently deactivated of childhood diseases and bugs. Here, the consultant provided important work, which showed that only a limited number of adjustments had to be made, which the suppliers had made without delay. Most of the problems were the lack of knowledge and familiarity with the new way of working. Therefore, the additional training was provided for the start-up. The investment in the accounting program was and is a good decision. It is up to COIV to continue its project and as in the past, COIV can count on my full support and this from the FPS Justice Department. Of course, I don't want to start a fruitless polemic. In that spirit, I would like answers to your specific questions. Firstly, the amount for the award was not exceeded, according to my information. Secondly, the additional invoices for a total amount of EUR 21 039 relate to the annual licences for the use of the software. This is just the execution of the tendered contract. These invoices also concern limited additional services requested from the supplier and not covered by the original contract. A third specific question, the mandate of the current director of COIV came to an end on 10 October. The procedure for filling in the next term of office is under way. On the basis of the applications submitted and the advice of the College of Attorneys General, I will make an appointment as soon as possible and in all objectivity. I am not planning an internal audit today but do not exclude it in the coming months if it appears that the start of the accounts on 1 January is not possible. I will ask for a short-term action plan in my first interview with the mandate holder for the next few years and I will closely monitor it. Finally, I assume that the accounting package meets the conditions laid down by the Court of Auditors. I would like to point out that this is an accounting system that manages third-party funds. The ordinary accounting of the costs of the operation of the COIV is included in the accounts of the FPS Justice itself. Mrs De Wit, I would like to make it clear that there are indeed many contacts between my cabinet and the COIV. At the invitation of the COIV, another meeting took place on 12 September at the Director's office with himself and two liaison magistrates.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I can only conclude that there are many contradictions between your reply and the response given by the current director in the media. There is no point in putting all this together. It is important, however, that we continue to work. An investment of half a million euros has been made, which is no less. Massive sums are also being managed, and this must be done correctly. When I hear you, I really do not understand that only a limited number of adjustments were needed. If additional training has been given, I find it very difficult to understand that this project has simply been discontinued. We will soon be a year and a half and the investment will not be profitable. That's not a healthy situation. I hope that a solution will be found soon. I remember very well that the then director... said the predecessor of the present.............................................................................................................................................................................................. I note that, a mandate later, no progress has been made in this area. That's a waste of time. Anno 2016 doesn't give that a pass. I therefore hope that a solution will be found soon. You may have read the Director's response as well. This one sounded completely different from what you're saying. I hope, however, that your story is the right one, and I therefore assume that I cannot believe what is being spread through the media. However, if it is different, then I think that is a very sad thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u38	Mr Minister, in his same response to the article "Complete chaos in the custody service of the judiciary," the Director raised the alarm regarding the continuity of personnel at the COIV. There was uncertainty about 13 out of 45 staff who received a temporary contract until the end of the year, with an extension of those contracts proving uncertain. He says that it will be a major problem if an extension does not happen. My questions are as follows. Is this statement true? What measures will you take to ensure continuity? When will the 13 staff be clear about their future? How do you see the future of COIV, which we already know is already a mess, when these people's contracts are not renewed? What is the statutory/contractual relationship with COIV? What's the staff turnover over the past few years? I heard you say that there is already a certain certainty for some Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u39	Thank you, Mrs De Wit. Mr President, there is no cause for concern. This year, in order to deal with the delay in processing the COIV files, a strengthening of the workforce, both structural and temporary, has been provided for, with due respect for the procedures. As you know, pursuant to Article 2 of the Law of 26 March 2003 establishing the Central Commission for the seizure and settlement of claims, the COIV forms part of the Public Prosecutor's Office. On the basis of structural needs, several contractual recruitments to COIV were achieved in the distribution of available budgetary margins in the spring. Moreover, in September, as in several other legislative powers, a number of short-term contracts were entered into with a view to making optimum use of the operational margin. The director of the COIV refers to the total of 13 fixed-term contracts. On the basis of structural needs, eight contracts were concluded until 31 December 2016. My administration is now taking the necessary initiatives to include these contracts in the budgetary perspectives for 2017, so that a dossier will be submitted to the Finance Inspectorate in the near future, with a view to extending the contract from 1 January 2017. This dossier has a normal course of events, so there is no cause for concern. The five other contracts are for a fixed period of level C and were entered into specifically for a limited period of four months, namely until the end of December 2016. This action, initiated in consultation with the College of the Public Prosecutor's Office, was limited from the outset to this year. From the outset, the conditions were clearly stated and the director of the COIV was aware that this targeted action concerns temporary contracts for which no extension is foreseen. Subject to management and liaison magistrates, the COIV currently employs seven statutory staff and 30 contractual, excluding the five contracts limited to 2016. Thirty plus seven makes 37 in total, compared to 23 in 2012.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u40	Question No 14061 by Mr Rob Van de Velde is transformed into a written question. Question No 14081 by Mr Philippe Goffin and question No 14103 by Mr Emir Kir are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u41	Mr President, Minister, we are going to get out of Belgium a little bit with my question. A meeting was held at the UN on the fight against impunity for mass atrocities in the Middle East, committed for years by armed terrorist groups, including Daesh, which I prefer to call the "Naz Islamists". The aim is to ensure that these criminals are eventually brought to justice. These groups have made themselves a rule, a glory to film themselves during their packages and to publish as a provocation, but also for propaganda purposes, a multitude of videos where they show themselves morguely committing their crimes: beheadings, executions, défenestrations, immolations... I'm a little embarrassed to talk about this in front of ladies. These videos clearly show their faces and those of their accomplices who applaud or cry out for joy by seeing their innocent victims perish. Mr Minister, Belgium has strongly affirmed the will to try all the perpetrators of the heinous, barbaric crimes that I have just mentioned, recalling that crimes against humanity are imprescriptible. The United Nations Council has the same will and will endeavour to prosecute, capture and surrender the perpetrators of this barbarism to the International Criminal Court in The Hague. In the investigation report on the destruction of Malaysia Airlines' MH17 aircraft over Ukraine on 17 July 2014, investigators based their demonstration on images to determine who was responsible for the missile fire that shot down the aircraft. Will the videos of Daesh that flooded the web be used to identify the criminals who have been rife in the Middle East? Can they be used, under the law, as evidence, in the investigation and trial of the perpetrators of these horrific crimes? Similarly, can these materials be used to identify returns guilty of abuses and crimes, in order to deprive them of their liberty and thus, even before any trial, legitimize their imprisonment?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u42	Mr Flahaux, our country wants to remain a pioneering country in the fight against impunity. We do so in a number of ways, including by contributing to international forums, such as the International Criminal Court, and by prosecuting certain offences ourselves. In Belgian criminal proceedings, the evidentiary force of each piece of evidence is determined by the judge. In particular, images circulating on the Internet can be used in this context. This also applies to persons suspected of joining terrorist groups in Syria before returning to Belgian territory. Pre-trial detention, prior to trial, is of course possible and must be decided by a judge. The Terro III Act, adopted in July, has eased the conditions of preventive detention for certain terrorist offences. There are also specific rules of evidence for prosecution by international bodies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u43	Minister, thank you for your answer. I have no doubt that Belgium will, as was the case in the past with certain crimes - I am thinking of Rwanda - be at the forefront of the fight and judgment against these terrorists.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u44	Minister, I ask you this question because it is poignant to hear from the media that there is no enforcement of the legislation to be respected because police zones, especially in West Flanders, are no longer able to carry out blood tests because they do not have test tubes. In this way, we are sending the wrong signal, because drivers who should actually be controlled are at risk of slipping through the loopholes of the network. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions, Minister. Is it true what I read that the budget for blood test tubes is running out? If so, how will FPS Justice solve this problem? How will you ensure that this is avoided in the future? If the police ask for a supplement to the stock within their own structure, they should probably respond more quickly and appropriately. That's what the police are asking. Wouldn't it be better to place the budget in the Home Office for this? That's just a suggestion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u45	Also for 2016, the FPS Justice has provided a budget to pay for the requests from the various police zones to test tubes for the blood tests. The appropriations will be distributed according to the needs identified by the police zones, taking into account the stock still available in certain police areas. The problem, therefore, is not a budget deficit but an administrative delay in releasing the next budget heading on the basis of the estimates states to be submitted to the Treasury inspection. It is therefore not correct that no procurement will take place in the next four months. As soon as the volume of credits for the current public procurement has been increased, orders will be sent, so that the police areas will receive the requested blood sample tubes. The order process can actually be improved. The distribution takes place in consultation with the police areas, which must themselves ensure that they are carried out in an optimal manner. A clear and timely view of the needs on the ground is essential in order to be able to effectively plan the budget and free up budget tranches. The better the needs of the police areas are spread over the year and can be estimated, the better my department is able to ensure that the supply continues to meet the demand. As far as your question is concerned, in order to ensure that stocks are replenished within the police's own structure, and to this end to include the budget for saliva tests and blood tests in the Home Affairs budget, I would like to stress that, in order to monitor the course of judicial proceedings, it is necessary to ensure that the tests submitted at technical and scientific level comply fully with the relevant regulatory provisions and are useful as a full document of conviction. For this reason, the FPS Justice is responsible for concluding the public contract, analysing the technical and scientific quality of the proposed test by the NICC for the award of the contracts. However, further optimization of the organisation of orders and the way in which police areas are supplied can be pursued in the future. In any case, I will take the initiative to consult with the integrated police.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for the concern you have expressed in the answer to my question. The administrative and formalistic framework seems to be the cause of a number of police areas risking hitting without these tubes. I hear in your reply that you are as concerned about this as I am and that you will follow it up. Which department doesn't really matter to me, as long as the legislation can be enforced and the drivers know that they can be controlled. I thank you in advance for the efforts you will make in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u47	Mr. President, Minister, the Disaster Victim Investigation (DVI) is the judicial department responsible for identifying victims following an accident, a natural disaster or an attack. Its missions facilitate the handing over of the remains to families, in order to begin their mourning process. This is obviously a very important mission, under very difficult conditions. In the light of the tragic attacks of 22 March, the members of the DVI worked tirelessly for a week. I would like to pay tribute here to their courage and dedication in the service of the country. Unfortunately, it turns out that the members of this service regularly face administrative burdens after their intervention. According to reports in the press, they are paid and paid only one or two years after their mission. It would appear that the cause of this dysfunction arises from problems of clarity at the ministerial level as to the responsible authority. I quote one expert interviewed in a media outlet: "Paying for missions is really a big problem. For the experts' fees, everything ends up being solved, but the problems come from indecision at ministerial level. Who launches the mission? Who pays? Nothing is fixed at first. This was the case during expeditions to Kosovo and subsequently the expedition to Thailand, due to the tsunami. The ministers refer each other's ball." You will agree, Minister, with this testimony, and it is imperative that the DVI be paid within a reasonable time, or that some of its members leave the services in question. Minister, can you confirm to us the information presented, namely the frequent delays in payment to the DVI? According to the information at your disposal, what is, on average, the time limit for reimbursement of the costs concerned? What measures do you intend to take to improve the situation, and by what date? Are there any consultations with your government colleagues on this issue? If so, what are the results?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u48	Mr President, dear colleague, the DVI is a specialized department of the Federal Police which intervenes in two types of context: the civil context and the criminal context. He is surrounded by forensic experts to carry out his identification work, including forensic experts, odontologists, anthropologists, DNA specialists. When these experts are involved in civilian missions, such as the expedition to Kosovo, Thailand (case MH17), they are an integral part of the DVI team. For these missions, there is no scale. Therefore, each person shall transmit his/her fees on the basis of his/her own scales. Belgian experts who intervened to identify the victims of the MH17 in July 2014 have still not been paid. This case is civil today. In any case, it is not up to the State to pay them. This type of problem must be resolved between the parties concerned and, if necessary, by the judge. When they intervene in the criminal context, as was the case during the Brussels attacks of 22 March 2016, the rates for the fees for justice apply. These experts usually intervene at the request of the DVI and without a written request from a magistrate. It is a posteriori that requests are made to the magistrate to regularize their interventions through the drafting of the motions. This is what happened with regard to the odontologists and forensic doctors involved in the identification of victims of the 22 March attacks. Once the identifications requested by the investigating judges have been made, the Chief Identification Magistrate receives the statements of costs from the experts justifying their intervention and, above all, their fees. To date, some motions have not yet been drafted by the magistrates. Therefore, it will be necessary to wait several months for their benefits to be paid through the court fees service. In the context of the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016, CNCC's forensic advisers were required to coordinate the forensic expertise for the facts of Zaventem and Maelbeek. They coordinated DNA, ballistics and DNA database consultations, but not victim identification, since the mission was entrusted to the DVI. They have provided numerous support to the DVI, so that it can carry out its identification work within a short period of time, including the coordination of DNA analyses with KUL, the provision of cold chambers for the storage of body fragments and participation in the identification commission. In criminal cases, it is possible that the Forensic advisers will take over the management of the requisitions for the experts involved in the identifications. Work is currently under way to develop standard requirements that can be easily generated electronically and to significantly simplify the work of experts and magistrates. By automating the three-stage control, i.e., the order form which is the criminal requisition, the invoice and the payment, it will be possible to greatly shorten the payment process.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u49	Minister, thank you for your answers. I have noted that you are currently trying to make the most of this delay problem and that it is hoped that in the coming months the payment deadlines can be shortened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u50	Minister, the problem of gambling addiction is well known. We do see a sharp rise in problems. I read some articles on certain income that said that only online gambling has already increased from EUR 285 million to EUR 787 million. The number of Belgians who apparently have a gambling addiction has also increased to 173 000, of which 43 000 are severely addicted. So we're gonna have a social problem that's gonna get in the way. We also notice this on a local level. Employees of our OCMWS see that this is an increasing phenomenon even in rural municipalities. The Gaming Commission has therefore stated in the press that it is working on this. You yourself are preparing a draft royal decision to restrict, for example, advertising messages and to make gambling sites less accessible to minors and problem users. That is why I had tabled a written question on 18 July, but since I have not yet received an answer to it, while some new elements appeared in the press, I now put this oral question to you. Minister, will the age for online gambling be increased from 18 to 21 years? How's the check on the online profiles coming along? To what extent can you guarantee that minors or gambling addicts do not use profiles of someone else? Apparently, people who are known as gambling addicts are still being harassed by gambling agencies. What action can be taken against this? Is there any possibility of stricter supervision? Are measures taken in consultation with the Gaming Commission and with the Ethical Practice Jury regarding distress and sensitisation campaigns? There was a royal decision in the press. Do you have an idea of the timing for its publication?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u51	Mr Geerts, the Gaming Commission has an annual reporting obligation with regard to Parliament, which it has always fulfilled. These annual reports were sent to Parliament and can also be found on the website of the Gaming Commission. One of the measures to protect the online player is the implementation of Article 43/8, paragraph 2 of the Gaming Act. Together with the finalisation of the player profiles, this is one of the priorities that I, as guardian minister of the Gaming Commission, gave to my appointment. These royal decisions were drawn up and notified to Europe during the previous legislature, and are now being updated to my question by the Gaming Commission. As far as player profiles are concerned, the Privacy Commission has recently issued opinions that again clearly demonstrate the complexity of the problem. There is still a way to complete a complete identification system based on the national register. It is intended to make it increasingly difficult to register in a non-correct manner. It cannot be excluded that minors or gambling addicts use profiles of other persons, especially if they do so with the consent of the third party. The adaptation of age conditions is one of the ways to better protect the child players and facilitates the application of the legislation. Now the age requirement is 18 years for bets and 21 years for casinos and games halls, both online and offline. For café and TV games, the age threshold is also 18 years. By bringing age to a 21-year-old line, control by the supervisory authority simplifies. We can assume that a 21-year-old will make more informed choices of leisure activities than an 18-year-old. Although this would mean a radical change in the current organisation of the gambling market, I believe that the well-being of our young people and their education to socially skilled adults, who can make a full contribution to society, is more important. Adjusting the age requirement requires a change of law. An important element in the detachment is limiting the advertising of gambling. I have repeatedly asked the Gaming Commission to take action on this point. I was informed that a draft would be presented at the meeting of the Gaming Commission on 26 October. Allowed gambling operators, who do not respect the rules of the game, will be sanctioned. With respect for each and every one's powers, I attach great importance to incorporating a health policy into a gaming policy. The legislator has also given this signal, which also represents the Minister of Health on the Gaming Commission. The Gaming Commission also provides support for health care initiatives coming from the regions responsible for prevention and gambling. For example, the Gaming Commission has already supported the development of information films and educational packages in the past and is working closely with the VAD et Le Pélican.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I have a very specific question. I also know, of course, that raising the age from 18 to 21 requires a change of law. Will the government take the necessary initiatives or do you expect Parliament to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u53	We're working on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u54	Mr President, Minister, my two questions on match fixing were merged. The first question concerns specifically the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention, which was adopted on 18 September 2014 under the official title on the Manipulation of Sports Competitions. The aim of the Convention was to prevent, detect and punish the manipulation of sporting events, but also to promote the exchange of information and to ensure that there is national and international cooperation between public authorities, sports associations and betting providers at sporting events. The Council of Europe Convention asked the governments of the Member States to take the appropriate measures, including an adaptation of national legislation. In reply to the written question No. In November 2015, 544 of my colleague Christoph Dhaese informed you that you are prepared to sign this convention. On 15 April 2016, the Flemish government supported the proposal of Flemish Minister of Sport Philippe Muyters to sign the European Convention to combat the manipulation of sporting events. The Flemish government ordered the federal government to sign the treaty in the name of Flanders. I have two specific questions about the ratification of this convention. Firstly, what have the other state governments decided in the meantime, besides the Flemish Government? Secondly, what is the state of play with regard to the signing and certainly the ratification of the Convention by Belgium? My second question concerns match fixing in the broader sense of the word, namely how we deal with it ourselves at national level. In what way do we practically do that? Here we have had the spectacular business of Zheyun Yé in Belgian football and last year the international bribery affair of tennis players. Again and again match fixing pops up, a bit like the sample of Loch Ness: one never knows where, but it will always come back and usually in a cucumber period. Match fixing is found in sports such as tennis, football and basketball. The problems seem to me to be greatest in the football sector, with which I myself have a lot of affinity, simply because both national and international amounts are being spent on football matches. According to a report by Federbet, an international gambling interest group, up to 50 million euros would be devoted to a competition in the highest class in Belgium. For the former second class, a maximum of EUR 10 million would have been deployed. Those are huge amounts of money. The bets do not always take place through legal constructions but also through illegal circuits, mostly from Asia. The most important thing is to combat match fixing in a coherent and coordinated way. Many bodies are currently working on this at administrative and judicial level to ensure an effective approach. In the meantime, I hear that a platform is being set up, or rather an extension of a working group. First of all, how many people under your jurisdiction are involved in match fixing? What services do they operate on? Secondly, what concrete actions have these people taken to combat match fixing during this legislature? Thirdly, how does consultation with other federal services proceed? I am thinking mainly of the federal police and the federal prosecutor. Fourthly, how are contacts with the various regions affected by match-fixing? At what times is there contact with the regions during this legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u55	Mr President, Mr Vermeulen, there is a growing awareness in Belgium that the approach to match fixing can best be multidisciplinary. The occasion was a collection of all actors around this emerging phenomenon by Interpol and the Belgian Olympic Committee on 22 April this year. As Minister of Justice, I am involved through the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Federal Judicial Police, the Gambling Commission and the Administration Legislation, which have been working on this phenomenon for some time now. The federal prosecutor has identified a magistrate who focuses on the phenomenon and the national coordinator of sports fraud has been appointed to the Central Office for Combating Corruption. In the Game Commission, two people work partly on the phenomenon and in the administration Legislation there are even three people involved, one from the international aspects, one from the phenomenon of corruption and one from the gaming legislation. All these persons are actively involved in an ongoing investigation concerning infringements of Article 4 (3) of the Law of 7 May 1999 on Gambling, Gambling, Gambling and Player Protection. That Article provides that any person is prohibited from taking part in any game of chance if the person concerned can have a direct influence on the outcome of the game. The research focuses on players who would have placed bets on matches in which they themselves participated, including in the Pro League competition. Justice is therefore widely represented in the establishment of a national platform to combat match fixing. The aim is to ensure that this platform achieves the concrete and integrated approach of competitive distortion that the Convention 215 puts in place. The aim is to organise a structural dialogue between all the actors involved, to draw up an action plan, to exchange best practices and to agree on the integrated, preventive and repressive approach. The following bodies form part of the national platform: the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Federal Judicial Police, the Football Cell, the Administration Legislation of the FPS Justice, the Gaming Commission, the Communities, in particular löwAdeps, the Agency Sport Flanders and the German-speaking Community, and some sports federations. Cooperation is progressing well and constructively. As far as football is concerned, a hotline has been in place since 2010 with the federal judicial police, +31 88 44 442, which is available seven days a week and 24 hours a day. The hotline was developed into an operational cell and a network that not only serves as a knowledge and information centre, but also initiates, leads and coordinates investigations, in close cooperation with the designated federal magistrate, cfr. the recent file of match fixing in tennis. That operational cell may at any time call upon the experienced staff and the researchers of the Central Office for Combating Corruption and the Central Office for Combating Organised Economic and Financial Delinquency. In the context of match fixing, the police coordinator of the reporting point at the Central Office for Combating Corruption is also the national contact point for the Interpol Match-Fixing Task Force and the Europol Focal Point Sports Corruption. The Central Office for Combating Corruption makes two liaison officers available to the Game Commission. The liaison officers shall, inter alia, guarantee the exchange of information with all the entities of the integrated police. Belgium participated in the workshop organised by the European Commission's DG Home Affairs on 17 and 18 February 2016 to promote the signature of the Council of Europe's 215 Agreement against match fixing. The federal government plans to sign the 215 agreement this autumn, at the latest at the Inter-Ministerial Conference of Sport Ministers, which will take place in Budapest on 29 November 2016. This issue was discussed in the Joint Treaties Working Group of 22 September 2016. The preparations were made to give the Flemish Minister of Sport the full power to sign the agreement on behalf of the federal government and the states.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u56	Thank you, Minister, for your very full presentation. I knew it was intended that the Flemish minister would go to Budapest with hopefully the power to sign. You confirm that it can be expected that it will indeed be so. I do have a reflection on how the platform works as it has now started. I heard from a number of people that the parquet will focus on the bigger things when it comes to match fixing. It is, of course, important that the major issues are addressed. However, there would be a risk that smaller cases, for example because of the major challenges of terrorism, could be put in the shadows and not prosecuted. I speak in the conditional sense, because it belongs to the autonomous authority of the court and not to politics to decide which cases will be prosecuted. However, I am concerned that a number of things could remain under the radar. I will continue to follow that up in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u57	Minister, we have already witnessed a number of important trade union actions this year, including prison staff. Your cabinet has also suffered as a result. We have seen in the media as well as through the social media the images of the destruction that was done to the FPS Justice and your cabinet: the windows were smashed, doors kicked in, furniture had to believe, a heavy photocopier was thrown out the window. That was a fairly traumatic experience for the staff who were on watch and received alleged or genuine unionists and saw it happen. The havoc on Tuesday 17 May was enormous. We also read through a message in De Standaard about a leukemia patient who could not be transferred from prison to hospital because there was no staff. I'm mostly talking about the 17th of May incident in your cabinet. That has led to a lot of consternation. In fact, there are several possibilities to act against that. At that time, I fully understood your attitude, which was one of pacification, to ensure that the social conflict that existed did not get any further out of hand. All the understanding that at that time you were primarily looking for a solution to the problem of the trade union action itself. Now that the dust has descended, the trade unions must understand for themselves that what happened there is absolutely unacceptable. We can take action against this. Firstly, the trade unions could withdraw from these people's membership, which I hope may have happened. However, disciplinary action could also be taken, since it appears that it is about people of the FPS Justice who have attacked the cabinet of the competent minister in this way. What's the status of the investigation into the facts? I know that if there's a judicial investigation going on, you can't tell me everything. What do you know about that? Is there an investigation going on? Do you know what can be expected of that? Were any suspects identified and brought to justice? I don't know. Are there disciplinary proceedings against officials of the FPS Justice Department? Do you know of any disciplinary action taken by the trade unions themselves against these militants?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u58	Mr President, the situation has already been outlined in detail by my colleague. We remember; we almost forgot, but that strike wave hasn't been over for that long. The sad low point was on 17 May, when your cabinet was invaded and left behind a trail of destruction. We certainly haven't forgotten that. I asked you a question about this in June 2016. At that time, you stated that you did not fully know the cost picture, that the police were investigating and that a police report would be made. The district attorney then had to judge whether or not further prosecution would be carried out. At that time, you also announced that the building, at least the reception, would be strengthened and that secure glass would be installed. My questions therefore concern the state of play. In the meantime, do you know the full cost of the destruction that was committed on that day? If so, how much are these costs? Do you know if the prosecutor has already made a decision on the further consequences? Have any IDs been made on the unsubs? Are there any redundancies or other disciplinary sanctions imposed on the identified offenders, either by the FPS Justice Department or by the trade union itself? Finally, have all the announced works to strengthen the security of the reception already been carried out? If so, what was the cost? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u59	Thank you, Mrs De Wit. Mr President, Mr Lachaert, as I said in June, the public prosecutor's office in Brussels was informed of the facts that have taken place in the FPS building. The investigation is ongoing, and I'm waiting for information on the follow-up that the D.A. will give to it. It seems that certain offenders were identified, based on footage we provided, and were already questioned by the judicial police. This week, I was confirmed by the police that the file is almost complete and that the public prosecutor would probably subpoena the suspects in the accelerated procedure this autumn. The Belgian State will then submit itself to a bourgeois party, in particular as soon as the case is brought before the Court of Justice, and demand the repayment of the material damage suffered. I've asked the administration to contact the King's Attorney to see if they can already get the names of the FOD's identified staff without harming the investigation. Until recently, disciplinary proceedings could only be completed after the criminal proceedings had been completed. Since 1 October 2016, it is possible to do so before. My administration will check whether it has sufficient data to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the staff involved. The new rules provide that, if an imposed disciplinary penalty is found to be incompatible with a later judgment of res judicata, disciplinary action must withdraw the sanction imposed, with retroactive effect from the date on which the disciplinary penalty was handed down. Currently, 5 294 euros of invoices have already been paid for cleaning and repair. As for the additional work on the reception, these are almost completed. The total cost of this is still unknown.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u60	Thank you, Minister. Mr De Wit asked you about the damage. There's a criminal investigation going on, but in the meantime, those people are just working on it. I can understand that we are waiting for the end of an investigation and a possible conviction, but there are other possible measures, such as a preventive suspension, so that these people are removed from the workplace. After all, what happened there is unworthy of someone who works for the government. If we do not arrive soon, I hope that we will do what we need to do. Pending the outcome of a judicial investigation, I believe that there is nothing wrong with a preventive suspension. The end of the investigation and a possible conviction will undoubtedly take a while, and therefore I think it is appropriate to take action against the persons concerned. Perhaps they are not quite sure yet, although there are still images that confirm the story. Once there is a certain degree of certainty as to who is right, it seems to me appropriate to remove those people from the workplace, pending the ruling which can justify a genuine disciplinary sanction. I hope that we will take this to heart, given the scale of our behaviour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u61	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u62	Minister, we already know the history. There have been central login points for a few years. There are problems with funding and competence. It is clear, however, that the CAP is certainly needed, given the thousands of requests made by detainees for assistance and assistance. However, the contract only ran for five years, until February 2016. Meanwhile, there has been a discussion for a few months: who is now competent, can the CAP stay, what about the staff? In my question, I have outlined the history, but you know it better than anyone in the meantime. In response to a previous question from myself and colleague Lahaye-Battheu in September, you replied that you had appealed against the decision of Finance, but that your appeal had been dismissed on the basis of the issue of jurisdiction. There were also objections to public procurement and budgetary objections. However, you said that an opening had been created for the temporary extension on the basis of the monopoly position of the current service providers. You therefore instructed the Procurement Service of the DG EPI to prepare a new file for the temporary extension. It also appeared that Flanders had requested external legal advice on the issue of jurisdiction, but that advice had not yet been ratified and released. You thought that the Communities had a role to play, but that the question is rather whether it is a shared competence in which the federal government still has a role to play, for example in the provision of information. This dossier is actually a very good example of the painful consequences of the sixth state reform, in which a kind of federalism of cooperation with cooperation agreements should have been established. When it appeared that the problem also occurred in Brussels and Wallonia, where contracts for a similar CAP operation had ended in September. Meanwhile, the file evolves systematically. Flemish Minister of Wellness Jo Vandeurzen stated that in the Flemish budget of 2017, he freed up funds to take over the CAP. We could read that in De Standaard of 5 October. For me, it doesn't matter much who does it, as long as it happens, because assistance to drug addicts is essential. That's more important than who's doing it. I have the following questions, Minister. In the meantime, has an agreement been reached between the Flemish and federal authorities on the acquisition of CAP debt by Flanders? Will the CAP operation in its current form be taken over by Flanders? Has the Flemish Minister promised to provide sufficient funds for this? Will the CAP operation be effectively managed by Flanders from 1 January onwards or will it take place from a later date? Will the CAP operation be taken over exclusively by Flanders or, as you suggested, will it be a shared competence? If it is the latter, what tasks will the federal government continue to carry out and what means do you provide for this? In that case, what are the possible powers for Public Health? Has the external legal advice that Flanders gained on this issue of competence been confirmed and released? What's that advice? Does the transfer take place in accordance with this advice? Will a temporary transitional measure be provided by the federal government pending the acquisition by Flanders in 2017? What is the state of play of the dossier that the Minister had drawn up by the Procurement Department of DG EPI? If that dossier is not yet completed, when is that expected? In the meantime, have you had any discussions with the Minister for the Budget with a view to finding a solution to the objections raised by the Minister for the Budget against a temporary extension of the CAP? If so, what was the result? If not, are you planning another feedback? Finally, has a solution been drawn up for the Brussels and Walloon prisons with the competent Communities to take over the similar CAP operation? If so, what is the content of that agreement? If not, when will the Minister sit down with his fellow Members from these Communities to find a solution to the problem of aid to drug-addicted prisoners?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u63	Minister, I will confine myself to a number of questions that my colleague may not have asked. I didn't hear them all. When we questioned you in this committee on 28 September, your answer actually meant that the dossier was still at an impasse but that the federal level should provide for a transitional period for that CAP operation. A few days later, we learned through the press that according to your colleague Vandeurzen everything was actually resolved and that the CAP-operation would be taken over by Flanders from 2017. It is a contradiction and incomprehensible to me. Can you clear that out? Has there been cooperation on this dossier, or has it unfortunately worked side by side? How are we supposed to interpret this conflicting communication? Secondly, with regard to the full-time equivalents that were active at the time of the cessation of CAP debt, is it possible to give those figures per region? Can you confirm that in the meantime all contracts have been terminated throughout the country and that the expertise is unfortunately also gone? Is the discussion of jurisdiction actually settled today? Will the federal level no longer play any role? What about Brussels and Wallonia? Have you received a response from these regions now that the CAP operation has stopped?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u64	As far as the commitment of the Flemish Minister for Welfare, Jo Vandeurzen, is concerned, I can refer to the answers he made to questions on this matter in the Flemish Parliament on 5 October. To my great satisfaction he has indicated that he will continue to finance the operation of the Flemish prisons until recently by the Central Notification Points from 2017, and that funds are provided for this in the Flemish budget. This is necessary since a new public contract for the long-term extension of the CAP debt instruments in their present form will no longer be allowed because their operation also affects the powers of the Communities. The same commitment has not yet been made on the part of Brussels and French, but this will soon be discussed further. It goes without saying that I will not comment on the budgetary commitments of my Flemish colleague. This project will be looked at, and integrated into a wider movement that has been deployed at Flemish level to tilt addiction care in mental health care. Inmates with mental health problems or addiction problems will also be able to use them as part of their exit to conditional release. I would also like to point out that the Central Notification Points for Inmates with Drug Addiction Problems did not themselves provide drug assistance but helped the psychosocial services in prisons and made it easier for the detainees to get in touch with the drug relief network in the context of the granting of their criminal penalties. It is still the psychosocial services of the prisons that guide the inmates in developing their reclassification plan. There is no discussion of the competence in this regard. However, if the inmate is dealing with drug addiction, support for the contact points is important. It is in this context that the so-called shared competence of the Communities and the federal government should be considered. The competence study to which you refer concerns a detailed external legal advice, delivered at the beginning of September and carried out on behalf of the Flemish Agency for Health and Health. I propose that a copy of this study be requested from Mr Vandeurzen in the Flemish Parliament. In fact, this study concludes that, on the basis of the current functioning of CAP debt instruments, there cannot be an exclusive reference to the Communities or the federal government, since certain aspects are to be regarded as Community competence and others as federal competence. More important, however, is the decision as to which role and tasks the Central Notification Points will include in the future and what division of tasks will be laid down. A co-operation protocol or service level agreement could be envisaged, reflecting the commitments of all relevant actors. However, this will require frequent consultation on the basis of the results of the scientific research into the effectiveness of the Central Notification Points. This scientific research has now been completed but concrete recommendations are not yet available. The talks with the Communities on the longer-term CAP operation will be launched in the next few days at the Health Care Cell in the prisons. Finally, as regards the temporary renewal of contracts, I have received neither the approval of the Finance Inspectorate nor the approval of the Member of the Budget. I refer to my answers to previous questions on this subject. In the negative appeal decision of the Budget colleague, a small opening was made for a temporary extension. The purchase service of DG EPI was therefore instructed by me to prepare a new dossier for the inspection of Finance. This is being submitted in the near future, but I cannot estimate the chances of success, especially in the light of the issue of jurisdiction and the fact that the current contracts had already reached their maximum duration. Since the operation of the CAP debt instruments has now stopped, a smooth rebooting will not be evident, but I will do what is within my legal capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u65	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I note that the lack of clarity remains. If we have to learn one thing from this, it is that we will have to evolve into more homogeneous sets of competences. The most important thing is that the interned, the drug addict, can continue to rely on that effect. That is why I think it is so important that this can continue, even as long as it is not definitively allocated to Flanders. It is a great pity that we are now faced with this situation. We saw numbers yesterday indicating a high recurrence. This can be attributed to all kinds of factors. I've seen a lot of inmate drug addicts when I was in prison regularly as a lawyer and I've seen what that does to someone, and with a drug addict in particular. If we don't offer that support, these people will be a bird for the cat as soon as they leave the prison gate behind. So the essence is to do something about this problem. We must work on it, without remaining unclear as to who is now competent. A transitional period should then be set, if necessary for the changeover. I am very sorry that these people will now be the victims of all that complicated shuffling. I really hope that everything can be restarted as soon as possible and that this service will be back.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u66	Minister, I too would like to thank you for your reply. I can only establish that all operation has been discontinued. In the meantime, all the people employed in the CAPS have gone to find other places. The expertise is gone. I can only stress that it is also important, in my view, that the gap that exists now should be filled as quickly as possible, not only in Flanders, but also in Brussels and Wallonia. I hope that we will work together to achieve this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u67	Questions Nos 14289, 14290 and 14314 by Mrs Vanheste are transformed into written questions. Questions Nos. 14315, 14316, 14317 and 14318 by Mr. Maingain were deferred. Question No 14326 by Mr Vanhecke is transformed into a written question, as is his question No 14380. Question No 14420 by Mrs Temmerman is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u68	Minister, since 2011, a law has made it possible to settle a number of crimes with the prosecutor. After payment of the agreed sum of money, there will be no further conviction. In June, the Constitutional Court ruled in a judgment that the law on the extended amicable settlement or the redemption law is unconstitutional. Because there's no judge who's gonna check to see if the closed deal is gonna work. A lot of parliamentary questions have already been asked about this. In June, you replied: 'I am also planning a legislative amendment on this subject under the Fourth Potpourri Act, which will shortly be submitted to Parliament. We will discuss within the government to what extent we will amend the law to bring it into line with the new case law of the Constitutional Court." The fourth potpourriwet has now been submitted, but no solution has been provided. From yesterday's coverage, including in De Tijd, it appears that the prosecutors are making the most of the uncertainty while awaiting a solution. They follow the instructions of the College of Attorney General to stop starting new negotiations on the extended friendly settlements. Ongoing negotiations have been held. In addition, prosecutors fear a risk of personal liability if they do settle at the moment. At the moment, therefore, it is still waiting for the recovery law. When do you plan it? What's taking so long? For what reason did you not work out a solution under the Fourth Potpourri Act, as you announced? What will be the lines of the law on recovery and how will the ruling of the Constitutional Court be followed up? Do you fear an undermining of the law if the person who strikes the settlement with the D.A. no longer has any guarantee that the agreement will not be overruled by a judge? That thought was made by the second highest parquet magistraat in the jurisdiction of Antwerp-Limburg. I'm not making that up. Why didn't you work out a solution in the framework of the Fourth Potpourri Act as was announced? I'm just curious when the new repair law will come and its content.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u69	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, my services have examined with attention the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2 June 2016 and have already prepared a legislative amendment proposal to restore Article 216 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. As agreed before the summer recess in the government, I still intend to introduce this amendment to the Fourth Potpourri Act, together with the texts of the extended application of mediation in criminal matters. As you can see in the preliminary draft of the Fourth Potpourri Act, which was sent for an opinion to the Council of State, the scope of Article 216ter of the Code of Criminal Procedure was aligned with that of Article 216a. Consequently, the objections of the Constitutional Court to the extended amicable settlement, in particular as regards judicial control and the obligation to state reasons by the Public Prosecutor, seem to apply without prejudice to the extended mediation in criminal matters. The detailed repair will not undermine the legislation of the amicable settlement. However, in the context of the prior accreditation of the agreement proposed by the Public Prosecutor's Office, the judge will carry out a full review of the proportionality and legality of the proposal and will have to justify the proposal to the Public Prosecutor. This will, in my view, propose a very balanced regime which will enable the Public Prosecutor to re-establish his office and give the judge a wider power of review. As has already been said, the amendments will be dealt with together with the other additions to the Fourth Potpourri Act. The additions will be discussed after the autumn holidays in the Chambers Committee in the context of the substantive discussion on the draft law of the fourth potpourriwet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u70	That is news, Minister, because I do not think it was in the texts yet. It is good that we will be able to work on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u71	It's not news.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u72	I'm certainly happy. One can be for or against the buy-back law, but it is a fact that by that law the limitation period of many cases could be stopped. The buy-back law has also raised a lot of money, which in itself is not useless either. In any case, it is better than for a person to be brought under a case by a limitation period. All right, I look forward to studying those texts with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u73	Minister, people who participate in games of chance and bets now and then have the luck of being part of the winning camp. So much for the good news. However, anyone who reviews the general terms and conditions of the betting and gambling providers will soon find that it is not evident that the amount won will also be paid out. The most striking appearance that returns annually is the stories of people who win a certain amount but are not paid at all, for example because they have played under another account or through false identification data. Do you have figures of the number of cases in which gakoperators have not taken over the payment of game winnings to participants in gambling or betting? I'd like the figures on an annual basis. Do you have a view of the amounts we are talking about here, in other words the amounts won by participants in games of chance in the period 2011-2016 and not paid by the operators? What happens to the money that is not distributed by the gakoperators as a profit to the participants in games of chance?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u74	Until the end of 2013, the Gaming Commission had figures on stakes. The Gaming Commission tells me that this registration of bets, profits and losses was stopped because of other priorities within the existing funds. I can only tell you that the Finance Department of the Regions responsible for collecting gambling taxes has a view on the payout of the winnings. Despite my repeated demands, the Gaming Commission has not yet taken a decisive initiative to tackle the problem of unpaid profits. However, this is felt to be very unfair by players who can wager but cannot collect the winnings. I would like to draw attention to the fact that these are players who have not correctly identified themselves. My committee representatives will not fail to insist on a swift and adequate solution at the next plenary session of the end of October.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u75	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I am sure that you will indeed instruct the Gaming Commission to continue their work. That is also urgently needed because everything that has to do with gambling is getting a bit out of hand. I also have the impression that the committee sometimes fails to prioritize its tasks properly. I think it is useful that you, as a minister, give guidelines on priorities, especially when it comes to implementing gambling legislation, the CBAs that still have to be implemented and what you yourself set out to do with restricting advertising. I wish you every success in taking a number of further steps during this legislature. I will continue to follow that closely. I will also put my ear to the Flemish level on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u76	Minister, which came into force last February, the "pot-pourri II" allows the correction of all crimes, with the result a significant reduction in the procedures laid down. This reform, which aims to increase the efficiency of the justice system, has been criticized by some actors in the judiciary, who regret the reduction of the orality of the proceedings and of a procedure deemed to be more balanced. There is also a fear of too much use of the appeal procedure, in case of generalisation of correction. Faced with these criticisms, you have recently announced that your firm, as part of a general brainstorming with criminalists, is working on "seats 2.0". According to news reports in the media, the aim of this project could be to set up a smaller popular jury, from 12 to 6 members, and experts could come to support magistrates as assessors. The trial would be shorter but the orality of the proceedings would, however, be retained. Minister, can you confirm this information and, if necessary, provide us with the outline of the project? What are the different paths envisaged for these "seats 2.0", and what are the options that collect your preference at this stage? Finally, what is the expected agenda for this last project?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u77	Mr Calomne, as I announced, I am working on a new Criminal Investigation Code, a new Criminal Code and a new Penal Enforcement Code. The determination of offences punishable by criminal penalties and their treatment on the merits by a dedicated court, a criminal chamber or assizes 2.0 are important subjects in substantive criminal law and procedural reforms. Last Friday, the Criminal Procedure Law Reform Commission presented the guidelines to the Justice Committee. The subject of your question was raised. In addition, before the parliamentary holidays, the experts of the Criminal Code Reform Commission presented the new principles to the Justice Committee. As I announced to the media, my intention is to establish another system of judicial treatment for the crimes in question, such as murder or homicide. I'll give you the directions that still need to be detailed. First, a special criminal division at the level of first instance and, in case of appeal, at the level of the Court of Appeal, is competent to try crimes. In these criminal chambers, citizens will have a judicial role and will decide with the magistrates on the guilt and sentence to be handed down. The composition of this jury of citizens could involve people with useful expertise, if necessary. The law will provide for more immediacy in the administration of evidence and more hearings at the hearing than is currently the case in the courts and correctional chambers. Key experts and witnesses will be able to present their findings and conclusions in an adversarial oral debate during the hearing. Experts are working closely with my strategic unit and the FPS Justice administration to translate the guidelines into legislation that we want to finalize by the end of next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u78	Thank you, Minister, for all these complete answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u79	Minister, can you confirm that the Internment Act of May 5, 2014 came into force on October 1? Have all the technical difficulties identified in the discussion on the so-called pot-pourri III bill been removed? Have the new social welfare chambers been set up in time in all sentencing courts? Are they ready to sit? Is the transfer to the Communities of jurisdiction over the courts completed? Are the Communities now in a position to fully exercise these powers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u80	Mr President, Chapter 17 of the Act of 4 May 2016 actually came into force on 1 October 2016. This chapter contains amendments to the Act of 5 May 2014 on the internment of persons. The services of my department have done their utmost to enable the new rooms to function. They may have to deal, as in any new company, with young people's diseases. My services will provide the necessary technical support. The new chambers have been provided with the judges and assessors necessary for their operation. In Liège, however, no effective magistrate applied for the new Chamber. The judges will first sit in turn. The Court of First Instance of Brussels, for its part, will have in the first weeks only a specialist assessor in alternative clinical psychology, in the absence of a candidate for the employment of an effective assessor. A new selection organised this year is expected to fill the job of an actual assessor who has been declared vacant again very quickly. It should also be noted that the Judicial Code provides sufficient means to remedy the absences of both judges and assessors. The law of 4 May 2016 further supplemented the Judicial Code with an article 196quinquies, allowing the secondment of an assessor from one jurisdiction to another. The amendment to the Act of 5 May 2014 was presented at the Inter-Ministerial Conference for the Houses of Justice. The conference was established within the framework of the Cooperation Agreement of 17 December 2013 between the Federal State, the Flemish Community, the French Community and the German-speaking Community on the exercise of the tasks of the courts. I have also informed the Communities, given their competence to accompany the internee, the new law and the adaptations made to it by the law pot-pourri III. The law was put on the agenda of the Interministerial Conference on 17 October 2015 and 16 February 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u81	Question No 14079 by Mr Goffin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u82	Minister, my question is about the procedure for recruiting new prison officers, launched following last spring's strikes. Have any new officers hired in accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding entered into office? If so, did they complete the initial training? In general, do all new officers complete the initial training before joining an institution's teams? Is it true that some officers take up their duties without having completed this initial training?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u83	Mr President, the Selor has organised selections for prison monitors on different dates. As of June, 4,507 people had been invited to attend, of whom 610 participated and 280 succeeded. At the end of August and the end of September, a selection was organised for the provinces of West Flanders and East Flanders, because the needs are very important. On 8, 11, 12 and 13 October, the Selor reorganised a selection for almost all of Belgium. More than 5,000 people had invited them. More than 600 people had confirmed their participation. Since 1 October, 105 newly recruited staff and 44 ex-contractual staff have been on probation. A 50-day basic training program, comprising 35 hours of training, is reserved for each new officer on duty. These ten weeks of courses are spread over one year of internship. The option was to increase the field presence during the initial phase, so that candidates could acquire sufficient basic knowledge. The officer shall immediately receive two weeks of successive courses upon entry into service, before going to the field. From the third week, he usually follows one week of training per month. As school holidays are preserved, the officer may occasionally have to attend two weeks of training in the same month. Any member of the staff on probation, with the exception of contract staff, who have entered into service since the entry into force of the Memorandum of Understanding, shall participate in the basic training. Staff members who are registered are summoned on the basis of the training modules they still have to follow, and depending on the possibilities of the institution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u84	Mr. Minister, thank you for drawing up this state of affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-19-54-commissie-ic512x.u85	Question No 14382 by Mrs Özlem Özen is postponed.
