ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u1	Question No 13304 by Mrs Jadin is transformed into a written question. Question No 162 by Mrs Pas will not be dealt with.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u2	Mr President, Prime Minister, this issue was tabled a while ago. However, I would like to have your opinion on the matter. At the time, Minister De Crem was trained for several weeks at Harvard, while the period was a little special as the King was to travel to Japan. In so doing, no minister could accompany the King during his visit. I would also like to pay tribute here to the speed of your reaction when you have learned the thing. Prime Minister, when did the Secretary of State notify you of his absence and the reason for his absence? What was your position regarding the prolonged absence of a member of your government for such a reason?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u3	Mr President, Mr Crusnière, first of all, I would like to point out to you that there is a constant practice of the Prime Minister being informed when ministers are travelling abroad, whether for private reasons or for official reasons. This practice is respected, since, since the beginning of the legislature, ministers have been systematically informing the Chancellery if travel is organized. As you mentioned, I have had the opportunity to express myself quite clearly in plenary on the subject. I confirm what has been said. I can tell you that I was actually informed in advance by Secretary of State Pieter De Crem that he would be regularly in the United States for a few weeks as part of a curriculum related to his skills. The information provided referred to frequent but not necessarily absences over the entire period. When I was informed that this would be an absence until October 27, 2016, I immediately contacted the person concerned and asked him to return, which he did. He was also present in Japan, as you know. I would remind you once again that the members of the government have a duty of availability vis-à-vis Parliament. They must respect this duty and I have had the opportunity to clarify the situation with the person concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u4	Prime Minister, thank you for these explanations. Indeed, I think there was a need for a clear response. It may not be acceptable for a Secretary of State, even if his or her powers are limited, to be absent for such a long period of time without being able to carry out his or her duties. It was important, in this context, to remind him to order.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, before proceeding further, I would like to inform you that what I said to you this morning also applies to this afternoon. In other words, the deadline for submitting any comments on the report is shortened from three days to 24 hours. Thank you for taking a good note.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, I asked the Minister of Finance on 4 October in committee about the likely manipulation of transfer prices in Belgium by the multinational Caterpillar, in particular following the 2001 contract between its Belgian component and a subsidiary of the group based in Geneva. I asked him whether this assembly had been verified by the Transfer Pricing Unit of the FPS Finances and whether, if so, he had been admitted as such or whether any corrections had been applied, in particular to corporate tax. I also asked him whether this assembly had been the subject of a ruling validated by the Advance Rulings Service and whether any controls had taken place. The Minister of Finance then told me that he was not allowed to answer these questions. I am surprised at this lack of response. First of all, I do not understand the reasons for this refusal. Secondly, it is surprising given the notorious seriousness of this case. Besides, you had already come to the House to talk about it. Our fellow citizens, especially the thousands of victims of the decision to close Caterpillar Belgium, have, I believe, the right to know what is going on with the possibly irregular actions of this multinational. Finally, on September 8th in the House Committee, you promised to commission a study on possible transfer pricing manipulations by Caterpillar. I imagine the aim was to make the conclusions public. Prime Minister, does the discrepancy between your statements of September 8th and the Minister of Finance reflect a volt-face of the government that, once the emotion has passed after the Caterpillar shock, has changed its position towards the multinational or does it rather express a divergence of view within the government? What is the status of your September 8 commitment to order a study on possible transfer pricing manipulations by Caterpillar? If the Minister of Finance persists in refusing to answer the questions asked, can you give yourself the answers to our questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u7	Mr President, my colleague, thank you for your question. First, as I committed myself to it in Parliament last September, within the framework of the economic and social committees, I commissioned a law firm to identify and analyse, as far as possible, the tax advantages that Caterpillar could have received. The opinion was given to me. I then forwarded it to the Minister of Finance, asking him, on the one hand, to look at the possibilities of action and control at the level of the finance administration, having regard to the opinion given, and, on the other hand, an analysis of the situation with regard to transfer pricing. In the meantime, you have read the response of the Minister of Finance in committee on October 4. There is no contradiction between what I'm saying and what he says, since he asked the tax administration about it. On the basis of the information provided by the Minister of Finance, the Minister replied: "Under the provisions of Article 337 of the Income Tax Code, it is not permissible to provide information on the results of such investigations concerning professional secrecy in respect of a taxpayer." In other words, since the administration is bound by professional secrecy, it is not possible for the government to request information about the investigations carried out. On the other hand, the administration may, in the course of its function, transmit information to the judiciary when it deems it necessary. It seems to me that the government can only respect this duty of confidentiality. On the broader transfer pricing issue, the Minister of Finance asked the General Tax Administration to report on possible abuses of current tax legislation, in particular the transfer pricing rules. There is of course no difficulty in transmitting this report when it is prepared. Finally, I would like to point out that the programme law of 1 July 2016, in its articles 53 to 64, in time non-suspecto, before Caterpillar's announcement, transposes into Belgian domestic law the OECD model legislation on transfer pricing. The main objective of the provisions introduced by the programme law is the requirement to file the country-by-country declaration, the main file and the local file. The country-by-country declaration must then be subject to automatic exchange of information between competent authorities. Those entities that do not fulfil their obligations in this regard will be liable to administrative fines ranging from EUR 1 250 to EUR 25 000. The documentation requirements come into force from the 2017 tax year, with the balance sheet starting on January 1, 2016. In summary, in the case of an individual taxpayer, the administration says that the information cannot be disclosed. It may, however, pass them on to justice if necessary. With regard to a general report on transfer pricing, the administration is working, at the request of the government, on a report that may be available to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u8	Is the report you ordered available? Can you publish it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u9	According to the legal service, no, since it relates to the situation of an individual taxpayer. There is therefore a duty of confidentiality, on the basis of the legal information that I have at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u10	As I understand it, the report you requested, not that of the Minister of Finance, does not come from the tax department.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u11	However, it concerns a taxpayer individually.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u12	I can understand that what the tax officer has done in relation to a particular taxpayer is not available. On the other hand, with regard to your commitment in committee to ask for a report which, with the support of the whole population and especially the Members of this House, I note that you have this report and that no one else has it. I think there's something pretty frightening about your way of doing things. I do not see how we could not be aware of this report. More generally, on the question of transfer prices, I would point out that the scandal – I do not know whether this qualifier can be used – of the excess profit rules for which Belgium has been condemned by the European Commission concerns precisely the incorrect application of transfer prices. In the Caterpillar file, there is obviously a manipulation as well. So I think there is really a big problem with respect to transfer pricing in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u13	Mr Gilkinet's questions are irrelevant. Question No 14536 by Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u14	Prime Minister, I would like to ask you about your recent visit to China. If I am not mistaken, this trip was organized as part of your campaign to promote Belgium abroad. Can you give us a debriefing of the contacts and interviews you had as part of your trip? What are, in conclusion, the lessons you have learned from these different contacts? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u15	Dear colleague, on 30 and 31 October, I paid an official visit to China at the invitation of my Chinese counterpart. The programme was particularly busy. On a political level, in addition to the protocol ceremonies, I met with the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and also the President of the National People's Assembly. At the economic level, I had the opportunity to take part in a seminar that brought together more than 200 potential Chinese investors and I also attended what was called a power lunch, with eight of the most prominent economic figures in China, such as the Bank ICBC, the airline Hainan, the insurer Anbang or the operator Huawei. A reception at the embassy brought together nearly 500 Belgian and Chinese people. I also met some 20 young Belgian entrepreneurs who are active in China. Two treaties concerning the transfer of prisoners and extradition and nineteen economic agreements were signed during the visit. I cannot mention all of them, but they concern a wide range of sectors such as construction, port infrastructure, agri-food and telecommunications. I would particularly like to stress the agreement which should allow for the opening of a direct line between Brussels and Shanghai. This was particularly important to me and I believe that we have managed to make progress in the right direction on this extremely important commitment for the promotion of Brussels and Belgium, and for tourism. From a cultural point of view, I visited the Chinese contemporary art centre, which is an initiative of one of our compatriots. I want to focus on several elements in this visit. Our bilateral relations are excellent and affect all areas. Economic exchanges play a central role. Belgian companies have, I think, strong growth potential and Chinese companies have many investment projects in Europe and Belgium. This kind of visit makes it possible to highlight concrete projects, to attract investors, to explain also the economic strategies of the Belgian government. We have also had important exchanges in the political dialogue with the Prime Minister, in particular on international trade, free trade, problems of industrial overcapacity, for example in the steel sector and dumping. I have also been able to defend with great vigour and, it seems, with some success, the agricultural sector for which we have some concerns in certain areas, such as the pig sector. In the days that followed, I was able to see a number of reactions or advances in diplomatically sensitive issues until then. At the political level, I have been able to address a series of geopolitical issues, such as the question of security in the face of terrorism, the situation in Asia, the relationship with Africa, China's strategy on this continent and the consequences of Brexit. I was able to see how the Chinese are asking themselves questions about the consequences of Brexit. Intense exchanges took place on these subjects. As always, I have had the opportunity to plead for our candidacy to obtain a non-permanent seat on the Security Council. Finally, these meetings provide a privileged framework for frank, direct and sincere exchange on sensitive issues, such as the rule of law, human rights, issues related to China's future challenges such as population ageing, sustainable development. These are all topics on which dialogue has been possible. It is important to better position ourselves on the map in China. We must try to increase our visibility in order to promote our brand image, support the efforts of Belgian companies, attract investors. In this I think I can say that this mission has been a success.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u16	Mr President, I thank the Prime Minister for his answer. Prime Minister, I would be happy if you could send me the list of economic agreements that have been reached by e-mail or by mail.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u17	(...) I would now like to take this opportunity to ask what conclusions you draw from the fact that you said earlier in an interview that what has so far been on the table with regard to TTIP is unbalanced and that the TTIP negotiations could best be suspended. You expressed this position in September. If it turns out that the new US President is simply continuing the TTIP negotiations, do you think that we can pretend that what happened around CETA just didn't happen? Shouldn't we draw certain conclusions from that? Before we continue these negotiations, would it not be useful to ask your fellow Members at European level whether there should be a mid-term review of the state of the negotiations? Shouldn't there even be a stand-by at home with all parties in the federal Parliament and regional governments to see where the negotiations should lead to a more balanced outcome? In this way we may be able to avoid blocking this type of trade agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u18	This question has been asked for several weeks, but I understand that there is a lot of work in the Chamber. You're very well informed. You are well aware that the negotiations started in July 2013 under the previous legislature. The government's position on this point has always been very clear. We call for an ambitious, balanced and inclusive agreement as a means of improving employment and economic growth in Belgium and Europe. This objective is also in line with the negotiating mandate entrusted to the European Commission by all European Heads of State or Government in June 2013. At the last European Council in October, Belgium supported the continuation of the Commission's efforts to reach an agreement that meets the above-mentioned ambitions. A large majority of Member States share this view. What's the status today? In September I did indeed give a visionary statement, which is possible. With the elections in the US and in view of the state of the negotiations, we were close to an on hold. That's still the case today. What is now on the table is not enough in our view. The US must make additional efforts in different areas. Let me give you a few examples: the access of maritime services to the US market, the opening up of public procurement at state level and the chapter on sustainable development. We do not yet know what the next administration in the US will do. So I have the impression that we are now in a moment of uncertainty. On the basis of the contacts with our European colleagues, I have the impression that in the next few weeks and months, Donald Trump's intentions as President of the United States will become clear, no longer as a candidate. In principle, however, I remain convinced that there is perhaps the difference between us, that is democracy, that such agreements, if they are balanced of course, can be beneficial to growth and employment. We have a very open economy in Belgium. More than half a million jobs in our country relate directly to trade outside the European market. Moreover, the TTIP impact study on the Belgian economy proves that TTIP could have a positive impact on growth. The second part of this study on the environmental and social impacts of TTIP will be presented at the beginning of December. Finally, CETA has been extensively discussed in the Foreign Affairs Committee. I therefore refer you to the committee's comprehensive report of 8 November on the CETA negotiations. Thank you, Comrade Van der Maelen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u19	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for your humorous note at the end. I'd just like to warn you. You give me the impression that you think that if the United States gives the green light to restart these negotiations, you and the European Heads of Government can act as if nothing had happened. Prime Minister, the resistance in Belgian/European society against TTIP is many times greater than it is against CETA. The stakes are also much higher. Pretending that nothing has happened gives you the guarantee of an incredible, greater blocking than the one we have known with CETA. My appeal to the European Heads of Government, and to you for Belgium, is as follows. Recognize what happened. Accept that these kinds of treaties will no longer be possible as in 2013. It is essential that we in the European Parliament and in the national parliaments carry out a brainstorming study of the way in which we can achieve this kind of treaty in the future, with an incredibly large impact on our society, more democratically and how we can ensure that it is in the interests of that society as a whole. For of the kind of treaties we have known in the past, we know that they are beneficial to highly educated people, to high incomes, and that they are the lower incomes and the low-skilled who are victims, who are the losers of this kind of free trade agreements. I'm gonna make another call to you now. Don't act like nothing happened. Here's what I'm saying. You will not have the opportunity to say that we have not warned you within two or three years if this agreement comes before you. I would warn you to recognise the democratic feelings of displeasure that exist in Belgium and in European society. Do a thorough study of how these treaties could best be implemented in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u20	Prime Minister, in the House's discussion of the law transposing the directive on public procurement, Minister Borsus indicated that our assembly would be kept informed of the status of the royal decrees of enforcement which determine the entry into force of this law of transposition. To date, we have no news. That is why I would like to ask you about the subject, especially since this law is expected by the construction sector in the context of the fight against social dumping and we are late! Indeed, the transposition of these directives was to be effective by 18 April 2016. However, I am told that the delay will be a few more months. Prime Minister, can we have some information about timing? What are the reasons for this delay? Is there not a risk of periodic penalty payments in this regard? Do you have any information to tell us about Europe's position with regard to our delay and the amount of periodic payments that we risk?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u21	Mr Daerden, this is indeed an extremely important subject that you mention. As you mentioned, in 2014 Europe adopted three new public procurement directives. Two first bills transposing these directives have already been adopted by Parliament and published in the Belgian Monitor. This is the law of 17 June 2016 on public procurement and the law of 17 June 2016 on concession contracts. I would also like to thank you for your contribution to the work of Parliament. A third bill finalizing transposition was tabled in the House on 18 November 2016. It will be debated at the beginning of the year, I imagine, in the Committee on Finance and the Budget. This is the bill amending the Act of 17 June 2013 on motivation, information and remedies in respect of public contracts or certain works, supplies or services contracts. You're asking me about the reason for this delay. I answer the question which is asked in several points. First of all, at the time of the publication of the new directives, the previous government was in day-to-day business and, therefore, the work did not really begin on this subject until six months later. Secondly, this matter, as you know, is of extraordinary technicality and complexity. I would like to highlight our decision to work within the framework of the Committee on Public Procurement, in order to seek the widest possible support upstream in the preparation of legal and regulatory provisions. I can tell you that the heads of the chancelleries who have come together on this subject are working very hard. Indeed, no less than thirty-three meetings of this committee have been held, which is obviously enormous and unusual. This shows the willingness to work seriously on the subject and I would remind you that the Committee on Public Procurement brings together all the actors involved: the federal government, of course, but also the regional entities, the Court of Auditors, the Finance Inspectorate, the Belgian Federation of Enterprises, UNIZO, the Union of Middle Classes, trade unions, the General Federation of Labour of Belgium, the Association of Provinces, the Union of Cities and Municipalities, etc. You see that this is a commission that brings together a lot of people, in order to integrate all the sensitivities on the subject. Finally, and this is an essential aspect, we are, like you – because we can still have some convergence – extremely mobilized on the issue of social dumping. We believe that the instrument we are talking about should be used as much as possible in an attempt to combat social dumping. That is why, in the context of transposition, we have tried to determine how to implement the directive by taking into account the views of all the actors I have just mentioned, with a view to making progress in our desire to prevent this phenomenon, which is deadly for several strategic economic sectors. Finally, honourable Member, I come to the execution orders. I have them at your disposal, if you wish, and I can give you the note that will show you the degree of progress in the work. Just keep in mind that we are making every effort to complete the regulatory process for the first half of 2017! With regard to the European Commission, we are in constant contact with it to explain the process and our ambition to bring it to a successful conclusion as soon as possible. Perhaps we will be a little late in view of the deadlines imposed by the Commission. I have the impression that the methodological choice that has been made will lead to the most consensual legal and regulatory framework possible, which will best integrate the concerns of the various sectors concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u22	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. I agree with you that these are difficult cases which require very extensive consultation, in order to implement this directive as best as possible. Moreover, in the discussions on implementing orders, I regretted that we did not go far enough in the fight against social dumping. I am pleased that you are concerned about this, and I hope that this will be reflected in the orders. I can only deplore the delay, because the sectors and the workers are getting impatient. I hear that the process will be completed in early 2017. I hope that this will not affect European finances. Since you proposed it, I am sincerely interested in the documents available to you in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u23	Mr President, Prime Minister, a few weeks ago, I was already asking you about Lufthansa's purchase of Brussels Airlines. This issue has evolved very recently and took an acceleration on 28 November last. That's why I'm coming back to you. At the time, you replied to me in plenary, specifying the marks you had put in the negotiations with Lufthansa and the Belgian shareholders. I would like to take stock with you of this matter. A new proposal was tabled on the table and is to be approved by 15 December. According to the press, the shareholders had to sign their agreement by 7 December, except for two (SFPI and Brussels Airport), which will keep their signature pending until two conditions are met: the approval of the proposal by all the other historical shareholders and, above all, the smooth running of the Brussels Airlines Board of Directors which is to take place today. On the menu there is the commitment to renew the fleet of long mail, which serves to cover African, American and, soon, Asian destinations. In this case, the last two signatories will in turn approve by 15 December. According to what we are told, among the other advances achieved during the negotiations with the German company, there is the composition of the board of directors and the formation of an advisory committee that will follow the evolution of the integration of the Belgian company. These proposals will be valid for two years. Then, the German company will actually and fully own the Belgian company. The commitment to the renewal of the long-haul fleet aims to maintain Brussels' position as a hub of the Lufthansa Group, specialized in African destinations and a focal point for the network of companies of the Star Alliance Group. We imagine that the aim of the proposal is to guarantee a rewarding aviation activity in Brussels, a declared objective of Belgian shareholders. But nothing is more mobile than an aircraft and, to ensure that an activity is maintained, nothing better than safeguarding a power of decision. He will inevitably be in Germany. We have also recently learned that maintaining the name of Brussels Airlines is also part of what would have been acquired, at least in the first instance. Prime Minister, I would like to return with you to the commitments you made a few weeks ago in terms of maintaining activity in Belgium in the long term, maintaining employment and maintaining decision-making centres in our country. According to what we have read in the press so far, the results seem rather meagre or even uncertain. Prime Minister, how do you explain that the government, through the SFPI that you mandated to negotiate on behalf of the Belgian shareholders, was not able to obtain guarantees as to the sustainable maintenance of employment and decision-making centres in our country? Secondly, do you confirm that the fleet of long mail is well validated for Brussels? Will Belgian shareholders therefore agree to the resale of 100% of Brussels Airlines? My third question concerns the additional guarantees that you would still wish to negotiate. Indeed, so far, several of the markers you have put down do not seem to have been respected, particularly with regard to decision-making centres and the maintenance of employment. Do you intend to operate other levers, for example through your German counterpart? Fourthly and in conclusion, I would like to return to the role of the SFPI in this matter. In your reply of 4 October, you confirmed to me that the SFPI had not tried to buy Brussels Airlines' shares in 2015. The information I was able to gather on the subject shows that the idea was rather to increase the participation of the SFPI to a blocking minority, via an increase in capital, which would, of course, have mathematically diluted the shareholding of Lufthansa. According to the same information, Brussels Airlines then refused by explaining that it did not need the money. Can you confirm this information? If it were to prove correct, it would still be a missed opportunity. One can legitimately wonder why the government did not work further in 2015 to materialize this capital increase.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your interest in this extremely important matter, given the importance of the sector. However, I am in a rather delicate situation today. We are at the end of the process; it could end in the next few hours. As you know, two private companies are involved, one of which is listed on the stock exchange. You will understand that, on a number of issues, I have to exercise caution at this time. Nevertheless, here are some elements. As you quickly recalled, we are in a situation where we are assuming the consequences of a decision that was taken several years ago. Indeed, Lufthansa's right to acquire the shares was granted under a convention dating from a few years ago. However, because some steps were taken by the government several months ago, as I explained at a plenary meeting in the House, Lufthansa decided to seek a consensual path and to adopt a step not unilateral, but a negotiating approach with all the stakeholders. I want to mention this first point. Indeed, negotiations have been conducted, without the federal government being directly involved. Given the sector as well as the stakes involved, and as I had committed myself to it before Parliament, I took care to follow closely the negotiation process, by measuring well the fact that we are in a particular pattern where, at every moment, Lufthansa can consider it to be acting unilaterally, without having to negotiate, on the modalities of the proposed operation. A few points were important to the government and I would like to mention them. On the question of employment, guarantees have been expressed as to the ambition, at the outset of this operation, to strengthen the economic dynamic and to make it a successful business model in order to be able to guarantee not only the sustainability of employment but also, we hope, the increase of employment if possible. It is therefore important to have signals on the renewal and rejuvenation of the fleet. These are messages I passed on to Lufthansa's representatives in my contacts with them. It is also important to ensure that the multi-brand character is maintained as far as possible and that there is, certainly in the first two years, a Belgian presence in the various decision-making bodies when integration operations are to be implemented. This has been transmitted through different messages. Finally, the idea is to be able to keep a hub activity from Brussels. This concerns the strategy linked to the development of Eurowings, which aims to be a multi-hub operator. We must be able to value our expertise, particularly for the African continent, and we must also be able to strengthen an attractive capacity for Brussels and Belgium. As far as the decision-making process is concerned, you mention a number of elements that do not correspond to the messages given to me. I would like to be cautious in that I am not present in this Brussels Airlines Council. However, I do not have the information about any opportunities that you think would have existed. As far as the decision-making process is concerned, we have ensured that, at the start of the SFPI, we have contacts with the various regional bodies concerned in Brussels and Wallonia. I have had contacts with Minister Marcourt in charge of this issue at the Walloon level. We are very close to the news as I received the information, just an hour ago, according to which Wallonia was about to validate the agreement that is on the table. The information is not yet formalized in writing, but it was communicated to me at an interview I had with Minister Marcourt an hour ago. I can also tell you that I met with the CEO of Lufthansa and that this morning I received a letter to the federal government that I shared with the regional authorities. In this letter, the CEO of Lufthansa gives a number of messages to the Belgian Government concerning, for example, concerns about the future of Eurowings, employment issues, the presence in the management of a number of Belgian operators and the presence of a decision-making capacity at Belgian level. These are concerns which correspond to those which I mentioned in my first speech in plenary, in particular in connection with your question on the subject. It goes without saying that I am holding this letter, which was communicated to me this morning, at the disposal of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u25	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. The timing is indeed special, since the board of directors is now being held. When the dossier is closed and we have all the information, I will certainly come back to you to ask you in committee or in plenary. Indeed, the file is important in two respects. As I have already said, the decision-making centres, the local anchoring, the employment guarantees in Belgium are important elements. But another element is also very important to us, and that is why I would like to stress the role that your government and previous governments have played through the SFPI. We believe that, overall, the State which has been a major shareholder through various regional investments and via Belfius could perhaps have had a more proactive, stronger role. Hence my questions related to the SFPI that we will return to. This is an important issue for a strategic enterprise at Belgian level. I will not fail to ask you again very soon on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u26	Question No 15343 by Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u27	Mr President, Prime Minister, the question will not be long. In 2011, the expanded Criminal Transaction Act was passed by the Chamber and the Senate under conditions that may raise ethical issues. Among other problems, according to some journalistic sources, members of ministerial cabinets have exerted pressure and actions that may be contrary to the principle of separation of powers. We will also be dealing with this problem in the next question. In this context, could you provide me with a complete list of persons who, in 2011, belonged to the following cabinets of Ministers and Secretaries of State: Minister of Finance (Didier Reynders); Minister of Foreign Affairs (Steven Vanackere); Minister of Justice (Stefaan De Clerck); Secretary of State for the Fight against Tax Fraud, Assistant to the Minister of Finance (Bernard Clerfayt). You can obviously attach this list to the report, you must not quote all the names orally.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u28	I will answer in a few points. On the one hand, a few months ago, we were questioned in the framework of an association called Cumuleo I think, in order to communicate, in general, the list of collaborators who work for ministerial offices. As Prime Minister, I asked the Commission for Access to Administrative Documents about their views on the obligations of different governments on this issue. I also have the letter at your disposal. It is a response which was communicated to me, a few weeks ago, during the summer, in August to be precise, and this Commission considered that these documents could not be considered as administrative documents within the meaning of the Act of 11 April 1994. However, even though this commission has concluded in this direction, I have considered as Prime Minister that information should be made available even if it is not required by law. This is a first point, laying down the legal framework. Second point. As I have learned from your question, I thank you for that, there is a royal decree of 19 July 2001 on the installation of strategic bodies, which ensures that the SPF of the Prime Minister's Chancellery is responsible for monitoring the composition of strategic cells, policy cells and secretariat. In this context, the SPF Chancellery controls by this means whether the designations remain within the limits of the maximum number of collaborators as decided at the beginning of the legislature. Thus, if the Chancellery FPS receives the approved orders, it does not always receive a copy of the resignation orders. Similarly, it does not always have data on the experts involved in the budget allocation for each strategic cell or policy cell, as these experts are not always included in the maximum number of authorized collaborators. It is an envelope for experts, if you want, financial within which there is room for manoeuvre in terms of using the envelope. In the light of this information, the SPF, at this time in any event, has only partial or uncertain information, especially since it was a period of current business, which accentuates the fragmented and uncertain nature of the information transmitted to us. Nevertheless, I undertook to cooperate fully with Parliament in plenary meetings with the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry and therefore with Parliament on this subject. So I asked for the Chancellery services to be able to collect the various information. Once this information is stabilized, it goes without saying that I will pass it on to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u29	Prime Minister, thank you for your full cooperation. I also note that you have discovered some of your missions thanks to my question. I'm very happy about that. I will follow the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u30	He looks like a majority member of parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u31	That's right! [[Hilarity]] It changes me a little, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u32	That's four questions. We have a Rules of Procedure which are very well done and which say, in Rule 128, that if at least three questions are asked concerning the same subject matter, the chairman of the committee may decide to attach them to a topical debate in committee, in which case the provisions of Rule 125 apply, namely the two-minute rule per author. Given the number of speakers, we are therefore going to hold a topical debate, especially since the Prime Minister is fully prepared to meet these questions today. I understand that other groups wish to speak on this issue. Mrs Smeyers, Mrs Gabriels and Mrs De Coninck I will first allow the questions to be asked, after which the other speakers will speak in accordance with the rules set out in section 125, that is, two minutes per author, with the Prime Minister having five minutes to answer. In order, I give the floor to Mrs Fernandez.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u33	Mr President, Prime Minister, in plenary session on 8 December 2016, your Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration stated that he did not intend to comply with the decision of the Brussels Court of Appeal condemning the Belgian State to issue visas to a Syrian family in Aleppo, under penalty of a penalty of EUR 4 000 per day. He confirmed his statements this morning in committee. Since the committee meeting, he has even announced that he is refusing to pay periodic penalty payments. All right! This is a serious statement, which tramples on an essential principle in a rule of law, that of the separation of powers. Even more serious, your majority partner accuses judges of making political decisions, which is likely to seriously undermine public confidence in our institutions and reflects a clear lack of respect for the judicial pillar. Even more serious, Prime Minister, it is not to have heard you on Thursday, at the end of the plenary, denounce the words of your Secretary of State. Even more serious, perhaps, are your statements at the end of the Council of Ministers on Friday when you announce that you are setting up working groups to commission them, to protect your Secretary of State, Mr Franken. As I said, I will not go back to your majority partner's campaign on judges. I know that neither are you responsible for the statements of the MR spokesman who said that at all times the MR was in line with Mr Franken's policy. You are obviously not responsible for either the NV-A or the MR. However, as Prime Minister, you are the guarantor of respect for the rule of law. It is probably because you cannot simply compel a member of your government to issue a humanitarian visa to a family of two children in Aleppo - and I have no doubt that, like everyone since this morning, you have read the Belga dispatches announcing the atrocities that take place - that you are flouting this rule of law. You have, among other proposals, invited this family to apply for a humanitarian visa in Lebanon. I also assume that when you make proposals, you study them before. I suppose you also know the conditions of the camps in Lebanon today. So, Prime Minister, do you find it worthy of a rule of law, worthy of a democracy like ours to make such a proposal, to bring such alternatives to this family in suffering? Are you finally going to denounce the words of your Secretary of State who wipes his feet on our democracy?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u34	Mr Prime Minister, your argument has been held in three points for the past few days: you are challenging the decisions of the courts; then you are seeking the opinion of the Court of Justice of the European Union and finally you are saying that "if we let this family come, there would be a terrible appeal of air". First of all, let me start with this Belgian family who wants to welcome it. It is hard to believe that tomorrow there are thousands of Belgian families who want to welcome and who would have created this air call. We know it's the horror in Aleppo. The last 24 hours have been even more so. I would like to remind you of the great communication exercise of the Secretary of State for Migration and the Minister for Foreign Affairs when Belgian Christian families had welcomed co-religionists from Aleppo. I quote Minister Reynders: "We are quite prepared to look at other solicitations, regardless of the origin and conviction of the applicant". However, we find ourselves in exactly the same situation, with a Belgian family who wants to welcome a family from Aleppo. I'm coming to your attitude. The Dispute Council took an independent decision. His choice can be challenged. The Belgian State has decided to go to the Council of State. That's your right. The same applies to the Court of First Instance and the Court of Appeal. Both ordered the State to issue a visa under penalty. I would remind you that these decisions are enforceable. The government can challenge them, of course, it is its right, but the appeals to the Court of Cassation do not in any way remove the fact that the decisions of the Court of Appeal must be enforced. The State refuses to execute the judgement and judgment of the Court of Appeal. In this regard, Prime Minister, you are trying to make a difference by pretending to respect court decisions, since you accept periodic penalty payments. By this means, you make it appear that a judgment under periodic penalty places the person who is the subject of the judgment before a choice: either to execute the decision or to pay the fine! That is obviously the opposite. Indeed, when a judge provides for a penalty in case of failure to comply with the decision, it is because he believes that it must be enforced and he fears that it will not be enforced. In practice, this is a sanction, not a choice left to the government to make either. In this case, not issuing a visa is tantamount to defying court decisions, which are enforceable, and thus violating the authority of the judiciary and the separation of powers. It is therefore a challenge to the rule of law. Prime Minister, it is your duty to act in accordance with what is logically required of all citizens. Will you, yes or no, respect binding court decisions? Are you going, yes or no, to behave like everyone else, as the law provides, and not to violate democracy or to violate decisions of justice? Will you therefore respect the rule of law?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u35	Mr President, Prime Minister, we can differ on many things and we also differ on many things, but I had hoped that we could at least agree with the democratic power in this committee on the abc of our democracy and our rule of law. I had hoped that our Prime Minister would be clear about the fundamentals of our democracy and our rule of law. I regret that doubt has arisen over the last few days. I have already warned of the danger of the largest Flemish party in your majority, a party that is increasingly slipping to the level, language and attitude of Geert Wilders, Marine Le Pen and Donald Trump. Prime Minister, I am becoming increasingly aware that they are allowed to do so, that you are allowing it to happen. Now there's another big campaign, funded by taxpayers' money, a so-called "foreign judges" copyright Geert Wilders. In the meantime, we know that you do not have too much to say to De Wever, but also that a Secretary of State, a member of your government, can expose you and all of us and take a walk with the rule of law, I cannot accept that. A secretary of state who may say to you for the time being that he does not have to respect the separation of powers, that justice is there for all citizens, for all 11 million Belgians, except for Theo. Justice and the separation of powers is also there for Theo Francken and you should be the first to point this out to him, not only in discourse, also in practice. Either you are in love with the rule of law and ask Secretary of State Francken to execute the judgment or pay the penalty payment, or you, as number one in this country, undermine our democracy, our rule of law. There's no other choice. You must make that choice crystal clear in this committee today. Otherwise, you will go to the European Summit on Thursday and look more like Viktor Orbán than Angela Merkel. It is up to you to choose which camp you want to be in in Europe. You have to make your choice yourself and stop being forced upon you by the N-VA, which is becoming more and more like Wilders, Trump and Le Pen. Secondly, you were far too easy and too absent from this debate until this morning. Ladies and gentlemen, our Prime Minister's proposal is to issue a visa for Lebanon. I invite you to visit the camps in Lebanon, Mr Michel. I invite you to check the numbers. Today Lebanon is catching 1.5 million refugees, with a population of 4.5 million people. That's the same number as in Wallonia. 4.5 million inhabitants and Lebanon captures 1.5 million refugees. The European Union, with 500 million inhabitants, is picking up a million people. For the time being, I hope that the rich and humane people will receive 6 700 Syrian refugees from Belgium. You say that these people must go to Lebanon, to those terrible camps. That's what you say to that family. So you are fully involved in the game of Theo Francken. I would like to see the opposite, but today you are putting Belgium in the countries where humanity is not victorious, where hatred and fear are gaining hope and solidarity. So you must give very clear answers today. With regard to the legal issue, will you execute the judgment or pay a penalty payment? You may appeal. That too is part of the rule of law, but you will have to pay the penalty payment. I expect a very clear answer on that today. Two, please send your posture this morning. Don't repeat that these people have to go to Lebanon. Do not repeat that these people must go to that camp and take your responsibility with them at European level in the coming days and weeks and do not be distracted by Theo Francken. He may also be applauded at election meetings in the French-speaking part of the country, but this is not about elections, Prime Minister. It is a question of which side of history our country will be on in the refugee crisis. I hope to see a Liberal Prime Minister there instead of someone who is increasingly guided by types such as Orbán, Le Pen, Wilders and, unfortunately, Theo Francken.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u36	Mr President, Prime Minister, as my colleagues have already put the framework, I will focus on my questions. First, the Court of Appeal ordered the Belgian State to comply with the decision to grant these visas. Is not the non-issuance of these powers a violation of the separation of powers? If your answer is negative, when and when should a court decision not be respected? Who should do it or not? Second, do you intend to pay the penalty payments? If so, will you pay them to the complainant or pay them to a frozen account? In the latter case, is that not contrary to the judicial decision? Thirdly, an application for cassation or the Council of State may take a year or more. This type of remedy could increase the bill for periodic penalty payments to EUR 1.5 million. How far do you intend to pay for this single file? Fourthly, how do you react to the two alternatives that have been submitted to you directly by family lawyers, namely the issue of a pass, i.e. the issue of a visa on the basis of Article 9? These lawyers consider them to be a compromise that would please you. What is your response to these proposals? Fifthly, Mr Calvo referred to the situation in Lebanon. UNHCR complained about the situation in the camps, saying that the latter was catastrophic at all levels. Yet many refugees would like to be able to stay close to their country of origin, but under decent conditions. Do you think that Belgium's financial aid to these camps is sufficient?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u37	Mr Van Hees, thank you. I would point out to the other speakers that section 125 allows them only one intervention: either, now before the Prime Minister's answer, or, in reply after the Prime Minister's answer, the opposite of the authors of the four questions that can still be answered. It is up to everyone to know whether they wish to intervene now or after the Prime Minister's intervention. I give the floor to anyone who wishes it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u38	That is a difficult choice, before or after the Prime Minister's reply. Mr Prime Minister, I hope that we will be able to ask you a question in complete serenity about the substance of the matter, the question of not delivering the visa because the Syrian family requested the visa in order to apply for asylum in Belgium. That's the bottom line of the matter. That's what it's been about for weeks now. Why should that be refused? Because it would set a precedent. It would then be possible to apply for asylum in Belgian embassies from anywhere in the world. That's the bottom line of the matter. We are now appealing against that. I understand that the Council of State has declared admissible today the appeal against the Council's ruling on foreign nationals' disputes. This means that he will give his opinion on the substance of the matter. We can only hope that she correctly interprets the Article 9 of the Foreigner's Act, which states that the Secretary of State is the sole discretionary authority for the issue of visas. We also hope that the Council of State correctly interprets Article 3 of the ECHR, in particular that it interprets the principle of not driving a person back to his country of origin when he is at risk for his life in one direction, from Belgium towards country of origin. We are not supposed to accommodate everyone who is at risk for their lives in Belgium. You have proposed a very good interim solution, namely reception in the region of Lebanon. I do not know whether that has already been definitively accepted or rejected. I hope that this is the only proposal that is still being made to that family. There are thousands of refugees being received in Lebanon, in a safe way, in the region. We stand by our view that this should also apply to this Syrian family.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u39	Mr President, Prime Minister, let us talk today about the facts and the content of a dossier. Our group also expects clarity and attaches great importance to the sound knowledge of a dossier. We do not want to go back to what has been said in the margins of this dossier in recent days. We still have a few questions about the facts, Mr Prime Minister. Firstly, we believe that a humanitarian visa is still a favour and not a right. That's been posted several times. It is granted by the government, after advice of the Foreign Office. The question raised by our group is whether you have a better idea of the arguments put forward by the Foreign Affairs Office in three decisions. Can you explain this? We are aware of the fact that this argument has apparently been very sloppy, and the Council of Foreign Ministers has been able to overrule them over and over again. If the Foreign Office is given three times the opportunity to establish a clear justification, and that is not possible, although the executive has quite a margin to issue a humanitarian visa, that is a sad finding on which we expect a response from you or the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State is responsible for the DVZ. On the other hand, our group supports you, the government and the Belgian State, in your appeal against the decision of the RV. In a rule of law, appeal is a fundamental right. We agree with you because it is indeed very doubtful that rights from the ECHR outside the EU territory can be invoked. There is also the question of whether a penalty payment should be paid if a visa is not issued. Because we too do not agree with the decision of the RvV, we support the government in refusing to issue the visa. The government is looking for a solution to the penalty payment. Can you give us more details on the Lebanon piste you launched yesterday? How concrete is this? Can you give me more details on the contacts that have been made under this particular dossier? The substance of the legal dispute is indeed about the scope of Article 3 of the ECHR. Whether or not to grant a visa is an administrative procedure, which is therefore bound by the obligation to state reasons that I mentioned earlier. Our group believes, as in the majority view followed by Strasbourg, that someone who is outside the EU cannot simply rely on the ECHR. A person who applies to the Belgian embassy in Lebanon does not suddenly fall entirely under Belgian law. We therefore want to await the decision of the Council of State in substance. However, we have also understood that the question pending before the European Court of Justice would be based on Article 4 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. There would be no territorial limitation. We would like to know whether it is true that Article 4 is also being invoked? In conclusion, therefore, we believe that the Secretary of State and the Government have sufficient legal grounds to oppose the substance of the matter, both for reasons of principle and for political reasons, to maintain a political margin of discretion as regards the issuing of visas. He is therefore right to take further remedies and even to the highest level. With regard to the execution of the judgment, we also believe that the executive authority is bound to respect decisions of the judiciary. If there are problems with the interpretation of legislation, the legislative authority must assume its responsibility. We therefore support the government's legal action. Can you clarify the final steps taken by the government? With regard to the penalty payment, I don't think a bailiff's come by in the meantime. Maybe you could tell us if there's a procedure in the courtroom in the meantime. If payment were to be made, perhaps we could suggest, just as the opposite party itself suggested, that the amount should be paid into charity by the government itself. The legal debate is ongoing. As the Secretary of State said this morning, we must wait for the rulings of the European Court of Justice and the Council of State. I assume that the political debate will continue, but we expect you, Prime Minister, to have facts and clarity on the dossier today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u40	Mr President, Prime Minister, a great deal has already been said, whether particularly theatrical or emotional. I would like to approach the matter fairly objectively and calmly. The government has been able to motivate three times the Secretary of State and his services why they did not want to issue a visa. She didn't do that three times or not good enough. For me, that's bad governance. Eventually they were taken to court and the court made all the assessments. Our laws and regulations have been reviewed. Those judges have made the assessment that the administration and the State Secretary, who is responsible for this, have not made. Those who do their job in our country are most critical. The judiciary has taken a decision. Our regulations stipulate that this must be respected. Either we pay 4,000 euros a day. Everyone in Belgium pays that, they're taxpayers. Either you just give a visa. Don't be silly about that. It's not because they give a visa, that the rest of the world will come here. If so, the almost 300 visas for the Christians from Aleppo should have caused that too. At the time, we were all wisely silent about that. So it's possible. It's a favor. You can give me that visa. With regard to the discussion of principle, in which I can follow you in part, I would advise you to settle this for this family. Period. There is a family or family in Belgium who will take care of them. That's it. That's it. That's it. They must take responsibility. In addition, you can proceed with the questions referred for a preliminary ruling on Article 10 of the ECHR. Solve this discussion in a structural way, in a sustainable way, with a view to the future, and above all ensure that everyone does their job. If such a decision is to be taken again, make sure that it is at least justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your interventions. I will try to react to each of the points as objectively as possible, also by trying to demonstrate pedagogy and explain the legal situation. But before I get to that point, I would like to share with those who have expressed it, the view that what has been happening in Syria for years is a tragedy, a tragedy, and that the entire international community must be mobilized – Belgium is also, to the extent of its means – to support all efforts to move towards a solution, a pacification and more stability in the region. This is complex, because you know that some major international actors do not always play a positive or constructive role. I measure perfectly well, including on a personal level, the emotion surrounding this difficult political situation. But I am not speaking here simply as a father of a family or as a human being, I am also speaking here as a head of government who has a political responsibility as Prime Minister and who also sits on the European Council, I will return to it. What is the legal situation? I would like to be nuanced in relation to this, because I fear that some legal shortcuts have been made. I will take, Mr President, if I may, a little time to respond. Even if the Rules of Procedure, perhaps, reduce the time limit a little, I would like to have time to respond legally. Two types of proceedings have been initiated: administrative proceedings in the Aliens Litigation Council and civil judicial proceedings in relation to the issue of periodic penalty payments. The final decision of the Court of Appeal, based on the decision of the Aliens Litigation Board, was delivered on Wednesday night. It's quite recent. The decision of the Litigation Board, on which the Court of Appeal is based, surprises the government and is challenged for two reasons. I wish to be a teacher in relation to that. On the one hand, because in this decision of a Chamber of the Litigation Council, the magistrate considers that he may use a right of injunction. This is tantamount to granting the visa itself, which, however, traditionally is considered a discretionary power. It is not a right, it is a favor in the head of the Foreign Office or in the head of the government. This, according to the government, is the first break with the constant, classical jurisprudence. This is the interpretation of a Belgian procedural rule. We are not in the field of European law. But that is the first point that we are contesting in the interpretation that is being made by the Litigation Council. This argument is then used by the civil court. On the other hand, this is the interpretation of European law. The interpretation of European legislation. The fundamental question is there: is it possible to apply for a humanitarian visa from abroad with the intention of coming to Europe, not only to Belgium, to apply for asylum? Our interpretation, which is the interpretation of many lawyers in Belgium and Europe, is that it is not possible. The other party builds a legal reasoning based on two different international instruments. On the one hand, the Charter of Fundamental Rights, Article 3, and on the other, the question of the European regulation concerned. On these two points, we question the reasoning. A dramatic blow, a few hours after the decision of the Court of Appeal, which we heard on Saturday morning. The day following the decision of the Court of Appeal, a new decision of the Litigation Council is taken in another case, but it is exactly the same, which I dare say, somehow disavows the board which had previously expressed itself, in so far as this board does not consider that there is a right of injunction that is possible, that the decision of the Office of Foreigners can be challenged by giving the visa directly and that does not make the same interpretation of European law and decides to refer a question to the European Court of Justice for a preliminary ruling. What about European law in this area? That's the situation we're in. On the merits of the case, on both points of law, an intra-Belgian point and a European point of regulation, we are formally challenging the interpretation that has been given. In support of Belgium and of the Belgian Government's reasoning, the French Council of State has consistently held in recent years that European law does not allow for an application for a humanitarian visa for the purpose of applying for asylum in the European country. An attempt is being made to ascertain the situation in other European countries in terms of case law. As I speak to you, according to the information available to me, there was no interpretation other than that made by the French Council of State or by the Belgian magistrates until this decision of the Litigation Council. This is a first point in order to allow me to set the legal framework in which we sit in a nuanced manner. Rule of law and separation of powers and this question that some people, in my opinion a little quickly, want to summarize in a binary way by saying: "Or you execute the decision of the Court of Appeal by issuing the visa or you pay the periodic penalty payments". I'm sorry, but those who express this point of view, and I say it with the utmost delicacy, are mistaken. They are wrong inasmuch as when a citizen or, in this case, the government is confronted with a decision, in this case a judgment of the Court of Appeal, which says: "You must take an act", in this case issue a visa, and if this act is not introduced, there is a penalty payment of EUR 4 000 a day, the government contests the reasoning that there is not yet a capacity in the proceedings to defend a point of view. This is the debate on periodic penalty payments. The question is not simply, in our view and at this stage, whether to pay the penalty payments directly, it may also be whether, for example, the penalty payments can be confined. If, legally, they can be confined – and a legal debate is necessary on this subject in the proceedings, for example before the seizing judge – it still has an interest for Belgium – public money, goed bestuur, Madame De Coninck. What is he? If we win administrative cassation or civil cassation proceedings, if the European Court of Justice, in three months' time, confirms the interpretation of Belgium and probably most of the other European countries on the subject, that would mean that we can recover the money and that the penalty payment will not have been paid to the family. So, it's legitimate for a government, if there's a chance... not a certainty! I'm honest with you, that's not certain. We may have to pay a penalty payment, but when and to whom? That is not a detail in the eyes of the government. I repeat, we will respect the procedure, we will fully respect the rule of law, but we will use the legal means that every citizen in this country has the opportunity to use the legal means. Even in the event of a conviction to pay a penalty payment, there is still room to defend our legal opinion. We shall do so with full respect for the rule of law. Finally, Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, I am very kind to you. I have looked at the country's past in terms of periodic penalty payments. Various governments in the past have been sentenced to periodic penalty payments. For example, during the 2010-2011 crisis, the government and the then minister were sentenced to periodic penalty payments. Did the government immediately and completely pay the penalty payments? The answer is no. Just as this government is currently considering, legal procedures have been initiated to challenge the amount of periodic penalty payments and to identify when they should be paid. We are applying exactly the same method as was used by a previous Secretary of State, a member of your political party, who, at the time, considered that a number of points of view should be defended in order to verify what amount should be paid, when it should be paid, and how it should be accounted for. I think it was right and we supported it at the time. This is exactly the same application of the law. I am therefore surprised by an intellectual shortcut that tries to sum up: either you issue the visa or you pay the penalty immediately; otherwise, you do not respect the rule of law, otherwise it is Viktor Orbán, otherwise it is not democracy. If you are a little serious, you cannot say that in the way it has been done in this House. That is the first point I wanted to consider. Furthermore, we are very supportive in Belgium. Over the last two years, we have fully accepted our responsibilities, which was not easy and not obvious. Some may forget, but we have doubled the reception capacity. We have increased to more than thirty thousand reception places over the last two years, because we have fully assumed our solidarity. More than eight hundred humanitarian visas are granted on a discretionary basis, in the legal sense, not according to the common understanding. So it's not a right, it's a favor. Five hundred were to Syrian families. This shows our solidarity capacity in case-by-case analyses. You will have understood that this decision is the result of the assessment of a file by the government or the Office of Foreigners. In this case, it is not a judge who rules. We do not consider it up to him to evaluate a case. Mrs. De Coninck, you're right. The magistrate may consider that the statement of reasons was incorrect and may therefore cancel or suspend it, but he certainly cannot substitute for the Office of Foreigners to make a decision. Administrative cassation will, I hope, allow us to make this clear. We will see what the courts have to say. I now come to another important point. We take this case seriously. I don't underestimate the sensitivity of such a file. I repeat that, in addition to a political commitment and a fundamental, difficult question, the government also has a strong focus on the human aspect of this matter. There is no doubt about that. That is why I made it clear on Friday that we will respect the rule of law and the separation of powers. During the weekend we looked at what is still possible in the legal field. That wasn't obvious. Moreover, this is technical and complex. In addition, we immediately took initiatives at diplomatic level. We made contacts with Lebanon during the weekend. After all, we were surprised that the family had travelled to Lebanon to apply for a humanitarian visa for Belgium without applying for a humanitarian visa for Lebanon at the same time. We did not understand the approach of taking a few hundred kilometres to go to Lebanon to apply for a visa for Belgium, without, at the same time, at the same time, requesting a procedure in Lebanon. So we made contact with Lebanon to verify what was happening. We have had confirmation, in the context of these contacts, that it was possible to apply for a humanitarian visa for Lebanon, which is in fact in line with the European approach – not only Belgian, not only Mr Orbán, but also Mr Hollande, Mr Renzi – to the whole European approach of saying: let us stand in solidarity to free up financial means to receive refugees in the region as dignifiedly as possible. We are one of the main donors in terms of humanitarian aid on the refugee issue: EUR 175 million for Belgium. I repeat: our country is one of the main donors for humanitarian aid on the refugee issue: EUR 175 million and a resettlement strategy that is possible at the departure of the countries concerned in the region. On this subject, we have already assumed half of our commitment to relocations. Belgium is one of the countries that has already, for half, honoured this resettlement policy. This is not enough yet, but we have already half honoured this resettlement policy. I'll make it up to you. I do hear very hard comments that have been made. I'm looking at the legal situation. I place myself on the facts, the objective elements. It is a delicate situation, it is a delicate problem. I am aware that the decision of the administrative court, with the two legal problems opened up after that decision, concerns a question of principle, not only for Belgium but for the whole of Europe. I have also had a few informal talks, through my cabinet, with other European countries. I will also have the opportunity in the margins of the European Council to hold further political discussions with my fellow Members. I am convinced that, in principle, the position, not of Theo Francken, but of the Belgian Government, is supported at European level. Finally, I will continue to argue that the family concerned and its lawyers should take into account this proposal to apply for a humanitarian visa in Lebanon. I persist in this matter. I continue, because this is in line with the logic we want to support, that is, not to encourage people to pay smugglers to cross the Mediterranean Sea in danger, but to stand in solidarity to support a reception in the countries of the region, which are facing very great difficulties: Jordan, Lebanon, Turkey, which is why resources have been mobilised and international agencies have continued to work. I really advocate that the family should take into account this proposal for a humanitarian visa in Lebanon. I really plead that. This is a question of principle for the whole of Europe, which is why we will respect the rule of law and procedures in Belgium and at European level. It will take a few months, perhaps three months according to the information available to me, to obtain a decision from the European Court of Justice, Mr Van Hees, perhaps a little longer for the issues under the jurisdiction of the Court of Cassation. Today, we have had the admissibility for administrative cassation, which has just been decided. The message is very clear: we will respect the rule of law, we will respect court decisions when they are truly final, when all legal means have been exhausted, but at present we have not exhausted them all. I assume that I am very proud that this government has, in a few months, doubled the capacity to accommodate refugees in the dramatic conflicts that have taken place. I am very proud that this government has granted several hundred humanitarian visas on a case-by-case basis, taking into account individual situations. I do not intend to hold the individual debate on this family here. There are elements specific to the individual dossier that I will not discuss in Parliament. Some, as we see it, have very specific information on this subject; but the Foreign Office has been asked to consider a case which must meet certain conditions for granting a humanitarian visa. That was not the case here! But in 849 other cases, a humanitarian visa was granted, because we considered, indeed, that the individual elements should lead us to grant this right. I tried to be nuanced. I'm trying to stay cool, too. I'm launching a call to everyone to stay cold-blooded and serene. It is indeed not an easy situation. I hope that it will be possible to have a substantive discussion in Parliament as well. It is a fundamental question to know how to organise solidarity between Europe and areas in conflict and, at the same time, to succeed in organising security at the borders of Europe. That's what this is about. How can we also have mechanisms and procedures to organise security at Europe's borders and bring about a policy that is balanced, firm and humane? This is the choice that has been made by this government!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u42	Thank you, Prime Minister, for this particularly comprehensive answer. There's a few lines, I guess.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u43	I thank the Prime Minister for his response. I agree with you. You have the right not to agree with a court decision. That's right. In the past, you recalled, a secretary of state of my political formation, who had the reception in his skills, with which we did not know Maximilian Park, children in closed centres, etc., was also sentenced. But he has always respected court decisions. Always. He criticized them, but he has always respected court decisions. So, in fact, you have the right to criticize, to disagree, to think that the law is wrong. So change the law, but apply the court decisions. You're talking about solidarity. You say that Belgium has been in solidarity. In part, that is true, but I would just like to remind you that on the European agreement on resettlement, Belgium had to accommodate 1 100 people. We're at 519. There's still a little margin. You also have the right – no one can stop you – to take a diplomatic initiative towards Lebanon. Nothing prevents you from sending these people to an unstable country that has not signed the Geneva Convention. But it doesn't answer anything, it doesn't change any of the court decisions that have been made here in Belgium these days. Prime Minister, as we speak, social networks are flooded with calls for help from Aleppo. The despair of men, women and children is drowning social networks, and here, in this house, in this temple of democracy of which we are so proud or in any case of which I am so proud, it has been days, hours that we are discussing whether Belgium should, yes or no, grant a humanitarian visa to a family, a father, a mother, a little girl and a little boy of 5 and 8 years old. You spoke as a family man. I speak to you as a mother of family, I speak to you as a parliamentarian, Prime Minister, two minutes of democratic courage, that is what I am asking you to do!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u44	Prime Minister, thank you for your detailed answers. I will intervene first with regard to this family. You are making an alternative proposal to welcome her to Lebanon. I'd like you to take three seconds instead of this family. We know the reality of welcoming Lebanon. If you had to choose between going to Lebanon or being welcomed to a Belgian family, I think you wouldn't hesitate for a second. On this issue, I find that transparency would make it necessary to say things clearly. If you do have indications that there is a risk to the safety of hosting this family, then I ask that we stop doing it in populism and say things transparently. If this is not the case, I can understand that this family prefers to be welcomed by a Belgian family rather than to go to Lebanon. Let us come to the heart of the matter on which I asked you: the way in which you, as Prime Minister and therefore as a State, respect and behave with court decisions. Do you have the right to challenge court decisions on this matter? Of course it is. Do you have the right to appeal to the Council of State, to the Court of Cassation? The answer is still yes. Do you have the right to disagree with the judges' interpretation of this case by referring to jurisprudence? Do you have that right to disagree? Yes, of course, again. Do you have the right, tomorrow, to change the law so that the judges, tomorrow, interpret the law differently? Of course it's still yes. But, Prime Minister, you are not a judge before the judges. You're Prime Minister. As Prime Minister, like all citizens, you are not above the judges, you cannot decide in their place or decide that what they say today must be submitted according to your desire or political decision. Because what is enforceable here – it is an important element – is not possibly to say: "I confine the penalty payments". No, what is binding is the decisions taken on several occasions, including the last one at the Court of Appeal, which tells you that you must issue the visa, whether you like it or not, whether you are going to appeal or not. If you do not, there is indeed a penalty, namely periodic penalty payments, and you can limit them. But what is binding is to issue the visa.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u45	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u46	Mr President, I shall continue my reasoning, if you will. The Prime Minister was listened to with great attention. You may not like it. I fully understand that, but at the same time, that is what is enforceable. What should the government have done to respect the rule of law?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u47	Wait a second, Mrs. Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u48	Mr. President, I'm finishing my demonstration. I won't be long anymore. What should the government have done to respect the rule of law? It is indeed the enforcement of the court decisions that were to apply. It wasn't a choice left to the government. And as if that had not been enough, Prime Minister, you have accepted for me the unacceptable. You failed on your duty as prime minister because we cannot accept that a secretary of state or a party of his majority drags judges into the mud, accuses them of being activists, points out more specifically a francophone judge - as if by chance! -, completely questions the judge's decisions. You accepted that, without any reaction. When a party of the majority derails at this point, the duty of a prime minister is to say "stop, that's enough". But you didn't do anything. You did not say anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u49	Mrs Fonck, the Rules of Procedure provide for two minutes!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u50	The Prime Minister has been very long and I understand that. He explained everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u51	I think that if each speaker had respected two minutes, the Prime Minister would certainly not have needed to explain further.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u52	J'en termine. The signal that you are sending, Prime Minister, is this: dear citizens, if you do not agree with a court decision that applies immediately, above all, dear citizens, do not hesitate, do not respect court decisions and manifest yourself! Prime Minister, that is exactly what you are doing today. You have the right to challenge. You have the right to appeal but you did not have the right not to enforce a court decision that applies immediately. This whole thing leaves me with a particularly bitter taste. You have the choice of being a judge above the judges. You are out of the law and, in addition, your attitude as prime minister – it's serious – only reinforces populism. I find it really distressing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u53	Mrs Fonck, you are slightly out of order!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u54	(...) You can repeat it in your first speech and even after hearing my reply, but it is not fair. All lawyers who practice the courts will recognize, if they are in good faith and are sincere, that when a decision condemns the commission of an act or the payment of periodic penalty payments, this does not mean that decisions must be enforced immediately. There is still an ability to plead for when and to whom you pay. Of course you do, Mrs. Fonck. The Government is willing to consider, in the course of the proceedings that will continue, in particular with the seizing judge, whether it is possible to limit the amounts. That's what this is about. I can't accept saying, "Because you don't pay the penalty in the hour, you're outlawed and you don't respect the rule of law." Legally, Mrs. Fonck, that's not correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u55	Mrs Fonck, cantonment is indeed a possibility that exists in law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u56	But that's obviously not what I'm talking about! And I think you've understood this very well. But obviously, you're playing on that. You're trying to make it look like what we're asking you to do is pay. But that's absolutely not what I'm saying, and you know it very well. Because in the background, the periodicity, what is it? This happens in the event of non-compliance with the court decision. What I am blaming you, Prime Minister, is not cantonment, nor not to pay at once. This has nothing to do with it. What I blame you for is acting like a judge above the judges. I said it and repeat it here. You decide that you will not apply a court decision, which is normally enforceable, and which therefore applies immediately. Of course, I'm not talking to you about the penalty payments. I'm talking about the court decision that says you need to issue the visa.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u57	We get it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u58	I'm finishing my line. The parliamentarian has the last word. We're not gonna reinvent the rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u59	Other parliamentarians would like to have a word as well...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u60	Prime Minister, I thought you would at least behave like a Liberal. The protection of our great democratic principles and the rule of law is important. In fact, among the Liberals, I still heard the Speaker of the Senate who said and reiterated that there could be no question, in this matter, of not respecting the court decision. I also heard the CD&V, which found that this decision was indeed enforceable and therefore had to be enforced. You, who are liberals, don't do it. However, your duty as Prime Minister was to stand in your boots in accordance with essential democratic principles. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u61	We understand, Mrs. Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u62	Prime Minister, it is now absolutely natural. Until before this debate, we may have seen it as an outburst of Theo Francken, but now it is officially an outburst of the entire government, including the Prime Minister. I regret that. I'm sorry you're not going anywhere near the Lebanon piste. I have just given you the figures, but they are so eloquent that I would like to repeat them for you. Our country, the wealthy, prosperous country of Belgium, has recognized 6 700 Syrian refugees. There are currently one and a half million refugees in Lebanon. If a country is inundated, it is Lebanon that you tell them to take responsibility for. I do not understand that from a Belgian Prime Minister. You say you'll look into this further. You lack an opportunity to say very clearly on the most fundamental issue on which the most controversial issue has been, that the rule of law and democracy is also there for your government and that you do not want any doubt about it. In fact, that way, you send a message to all 11 million Belgians that they are allowed to make their wish. If a verdict is reached on them and they do not like it then they do not really have to respect it. From now on, they will be covered by the Prime Minister. I think your reaction this weekend was way too easy. She was at odds with liberal thinkers, with the history and tradition of your political family. It's too easy! Too lame! But today you won't even get that out of your mouth. You have not even said today that you expect a different language and attitude from a Secretary of State. Even that didn't work today. You say you'll speak as a government leader. If you've already spoken as a government leader, it's with a long time. You're going through the grills of the N-VA. They make you and this country more dirty, and I regret that. We are not just dealing here with a legal procedure. We are dealing here with a party's campaign to turn people against each other, to undermine the fragile support for the reception of political refugees and war refugees. Mrs Smeyers, I say to you, that will be the position of me and my group, that every euro that costs this procedure to the Belgian taxpayer will have to cough up the N-VA as far as we are concerned. This is about an electoral campaign, a campaign to turn people against each other. Mrs Smeyers, ladies and gentlemen of the N-VA, I say to you that if you are going to campaign on the hood of people, on the hood of political refugees, on the hood of war refugees, then you are going to pay for that campaign yourself. Any euro that will cost this procedure to the Belgian taxpayer will have to come from the N-VA portfolio. Prime Minister, I regret that you are involved in this. I'm tired of the biggest government party in this country being allowed to do this. In such a sensitive and sensitive matter, I would have expected more from a prime minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u63	Prime Minister, on the issue of the separation of powers, your smokescreen has failed to obscure reality. The facts are there, you do not respect the separation of powers from the moment when there is a decision of the Court of Appeal to grant visas and you refuse to do so. You are trying to drown the fish with the history of the penalty payments, but the situation is clear. In doing so, one wonders why a citizen who is subject to a judicial decision could not, like the government, fail to comply with the judge's decision. That is the question that is being asked as a result of the attitude of this government and yours in particular, since you have taken charge of this matter. Moreover, the situation in Aleppo, Prime Minister, is catastrophic. I quote the head of the UNICEF field office, Radoslav Rzehak, who says that all Aleppo's children suffer, all are traumatized. He adds that he has never seen a situation as dramatic as that experienced by Aleppo's children. That is why the family lawyers have submitted two proposals to you. These were compromise solutions that you could have accepted. But instead, you preferred to propose a solution via Lebanon where there are one million refugees for four million inhabitants and where the situation in the camps is catastrophic (lack of care, lack of education, lack of housing), which explains the influx of refugees. As I said, in my question, they would prefer to stay close to their country of origin. That said, you talked about the money that this government paid. According to the information I have but which needs to be verified, this money has been used more for security than for reception. It is not this contribution that will solve the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-12-13-54-commissie-ic549x.u64	Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation in this calm debate.
