ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u2	[[for the standing meeting]] The President [[in front of the standing assembly]] Good colleagues, The horrific attack that took place at Atatürk airport in Istanbul last Tuesday, of course, inevitably reminds us of the terrorist attacks in Brussels. The attack, by its magnitude, its target and its modus operandi, was at every point comparable. He brutally plunged us back into the climate of terror that we had to confront on 22 March. This new barbaric act, which has already claimed so many innocent victims, naturally fills us with horror and shockes us deeply. We strongly condemn repeated bloody crimes aimed not only at destabilizing security but also at the daily lives of Turkish and foreign citizens in Turkey. The international community must step up cooperation between the states affected by these attacks in order to combat terrorism more effectively. I addressed our deepest condolences to the Turkish Ambassador on behalf of our Assembly, asking him to express our support and deep empathy for the families and relatives of the victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u3	Mr President, the government also wishes to extend its deepest condolences to the victims of the Istanbul bombing, as well as to their relatives and families. Of course, we feel particularly concerned about this tragedy. We know what can be felt after such a tragedy. Once again, Turkey is the victim of this blind terror. Once again, dozens of innocent people are dying and many families are in grief. Once again, we must observe a minute of silence. I have learned the terrible news at the same time as all my European colleagues. We were all shocked when we saw the first images of Istanbul airport, but these attacks again strengthen our fight to continue fighting against radicalism and terrorism in our own country, but also elsewhere, in cooperation with our partners. In a letter to the Turkish Prime Minister, I also expressed our condolences to the victims, their families and the Turkish people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we keep quiet for a moment in memory of the victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u5	As agreed in the Conference of Presidents, this afternoon we will have a topical debate. We're having a topical debate on the Brexit this afternoon. We have agreed that the groups represented in the Conference of Presidents will be given six minutes' speaking time and three minutes' speaking time for the replies. The other groups get two minutes and one minute for the reply. I give the floor to Mr De Roover.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what took place last Thursday in Great Britain is called the right of self-determination. This is a fundamental basic right which is even proclaimed by the United Nations. Even if the result is not what we would like it to be, for our group, the result must be accepted. Responding to what has happened in a condescending and incomprehension, perhaps immediately indicates the core problem that has been raised here. Some have once again wanted to give the impression that the European Union is an elite project of highly educated people who cannot even cope with their losses. Instead of condemning it, I think it is high time to ask us where the distress call of these millions of citizens comes from. How come they are asking themselves whether the European Union is still in their favour? A first signal, which is clear to us and which goes far beyond Britain, is that unity cannot be imposed through EU regulations. By the way, ignoring diversity is perhaps the most anti-European position one can take. Every disadvantage has its advantage and I am very pleased that this debate can be held here. Let us throw out the word 'high', especially 'low' borders. Borders need to be considered critically. In fact, where they are obstacles, they must be abolished. But borders can also provide security. There's never a home when there's no front door in that house. A front door that can be opened, but which can also be closed when needed. The dogma of frontiers, which I believe we have followed too much so far, must be left behind us as a matter of urgency. As far as Britain is concerned, we have nevertheless received signals from different directions indicating a vindictive reaction. That is, of course, the worst thing we can do today. Those who were against the Brexit, I believe, are a large majority of this Parliament, and it is logical that today we should call for the most close cooperation with the former Member State of Great Britain. The European Union obviously wants good links with the whole world. Well, as of tomorrow, Britain will be part of the rest of the world. Britain will also be a country with which the European Union wishes to maintain close, fruitful and intense ties. Vengeance is therefore the worst counsellor in this matter and would simply point out that we have no respect for a position that happens to be not ours, which is just the core, even here, of the great values on which Europe is based. Because we, with our group, consider European cooperation to be extremely important and because we must not lose sight of its benefits, I would like to call here not to remain deaf to the message of the many citizens who are losing the European project. Do not spit out those who disagree because they are indifferent. The EU, as we have always understood, is there for the citizens and not the other way round, as some people think it should be said. If we do not take that signal seriously, the Brexit will be the first of a long series of dominoes. I think this is the last thing we want. If we do not take that signal seriously, we will also give the anti-European forces the gift they are eagerly waiting for. The idea of the ever closer Union is a self-destructive idea, which at some point will become fatal to the European Union. There is a basic law in politics that we must never lose sight of: anyone who ignores it is sanctioned by the citizens. That too has a name, it is called democracy, and my group fully supports it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u7	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, no one knows when the Brexit process can begin and, if we believe the US Secretary of State, no one knows whether this process will take place. What matters to us today is the future of Europeans, especially the future of our country's citizens. I know too much about the difficulties of multilateral negotiations to believe that everything can change overnight. However, the British vote should awaken consciences. Citizens need a Europe in which they can believe, a Europe that gives hope, a Europe that actually improves their daily lives. Citizens want a Europe that leads ambitious public investment policies, supports efficient public services, improves education, scientific research, health and academic exchanges. We must take note of this will of the citizens and make Brexit an opportunity to build another Europe. It is up to us, the political leaders of the various countries, to make our Europe more democratic, more social and closer to the citizens. It is up to us to bring about a generous, ambitious and united Europe. In my view, the post-Brexit European project must be organised around five key priorities. The first priority is that governments must be able to invest in infrastructure, education and new technologies massively. The amounts of productive investment must be excluded from the calculation of the Member States' deficit. Secondly, technological progress must benefit every European. The Commission's Digital Agenda is insufficient in this regard. We must stimulate and regulate the digital economy seriously. We must prevent it from disrupting the social rights of workers. We must also prevent it from undermining consumer protection. The third priority concerns social Europe. Called for their wishes by the citizens, but not yet realized, this is the time to put it into practice. We can no longer tolerate, and you will agree with the Prime Minister, social dumping within the Union. We can no longer tolerate the unfair competition that is developing between the Member States of the Union. Radical measures are essential. The fight against social dumping, on the one hand, and a European minimum wage, on the other, are two social priorities for Europe. On the other hand, with my colleagues in the Socialist Party, I think we need to demand that the European Commission put an end to the TTIP negotiations. This project is harmful to both workers and consumers, and for the same reasons, we must say no to CETA. The fourth priority is the environment. The energy transition must be dealt with at European level. This transition is fundamental, vital for future generations. I call for the adoption of a genuine clean energy plan, which would give a healthy boost to the protection of the planet. Finally, Europe will only regain its letters of nobility if our citizens feel that there is a new tax justice and that tax justice is a European priority. For good reason, citizens no longer tolerate lax policies towards tax evasion and fraud. As you are here, Minister, I have to say that when the Minister of Finance is reluctant to the European Council on a step forward in tax justice, we find that it is still very complicated and difficult. Belgium must be the country that demands firm European action, the rapid adoption of the tax on financial transactions, effective protection against market speculation, effective instruments to combat tax fraud. If I add to these five priorities an effective migration policy and a strengthening of the euro area, we will have a Europe capable of restoring hope to the citizens and especially to the youngest of them. Prime Minister, let me ask you whether you share in part or totally this vision of Europe. Do you, like my colleagues and myself in the Socialist Group, consider that the momentum should be used to reorient European action towards the citizens? Finally, I would like you to reassure me on something that concerns me. The first party in your government is drinking tea in London with the anti-European Boris Johnson. Can you assure me, Prime Minister, that this proximity between the first political formation of your government and Boris Johnson does not influence the position that you will now defend at the European Council table?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, on 7 May 1948 Winston Churchill, accompanied by several British ministers, launched the idea of European unification at the Hague Congress. On 23 June, Britain expressed its democratic views on its non-membership of the European Union. The results did not give rise to any uncertainty: 72% of British voters went to the polls and 52% voted in favour of an independent Britain from the European Union. Belgium has taken note of this democratic vote without ambiguity. We regret that decision, but what is done is done. We must respect the will of the British people and as Shakespeare wrote: "Let the dead bury the dead"! What is done is done! Beyond the consequences for Britain, both economically and in terms of its future state structure, this vote is also symptomatic of an unease experienced by the peoples of the European Union. The Europe of peace and prosperity, that of the Treaty of Rome of 1957, has gradually given way to a European Union that is too far from the citizens and whose action, though real, lacks readability and visibility for each and every one of our fellow citizens. The crises of the European Union obscure its added value. Now we must rely on the Lisbon Treaty and its Article 50. It was Britain that had the initiative to launch the process of its European exit, and each of the parties had to prepare for it to conclude the separation as soon as possible. The Belgian position therefore has no ambiguity either: Britain is a country on the European continent, a fundamental economic partner for our external trade, and we must therefore, as soon as possible, restore and re-establish strong economic, commercial and political ties with it. We need to reconnect, which will, of course, be of a new type, and of which there is no pre-established model. But these ties must be positive for everyone. The European Union, the European institutions and the Member States, must consider how it works, communicates and assumes its powers. But we must also acknowledge, ladies and gentlemen, that during the referendum campaign, many lies and nauseous slogans were heard against the European Union. To prove this, give yourself to this little exercise, as I did this morning, and listen to Marine Le Pen. I can assure you that in doing so, we start the day well! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our Prime Minister, our Foreign Minister and our Government have a strong and unambiguous European ambition. We must simply reinvent the Union on the basis of the existing Treaty. In this context, Belgium wants to concentrate all its efforts on different subjects. We want to reinvent the Union through our political action, but we also want the European Union to reinvent itself through the channels of education, information and culture. We would like to recall that we are in favour of a closer Union, in accordance with the preamble to the Lisbon Treaty. We are determined to continue the process of creating an ever closer union between the peoples of Europe. We support the fact that in the European Union countries that want to move faster can do so without being slowed down by the other Member States. We are therefore in favour of the development of a multi-speed Europe, but a priori without excluding any Member State. We want to be able to work together in the right direction. We want to strengthen parliamentary control through, of course, the European Parliament, but also, ladies and gentlemen, through national parliaments, and even regional parliaments, for their powers. We want to move forward on this point. This is an essential response to the Union's so-called democratic deficit. Within the euro area, we can strengthen the euro area's governance and pursue banking and financial integration more quickly. Furthermore, as I said in the previous debate, we want to strengthen social Europe. Why, for example, not create a European Minister for Budget and Finance within the euro area? I heard the previous speaker. I do not want to argue, but I want to say very openly that this new Europe, ladies and gentlemen, this Europe we are calling for and to which we all want to cooperate, we do not want it to be that of economic downturn. We want to continue negotiations on CETA and TTIP. This is fundamental for Europe! This is fundamental for our businesses and for the workers! We want an internal security component, including joint management.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u9	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u10	No problem, Mr. Laaouej. There is ample support for this and, when I say that we are in favour of continuing the negotiations for TTIP and CETA, this is a commitment that we have already discussed and that we have developed and approved in our House. As regards the security aspect of internal security, including the continuation of European defence, we reaffirmed this commitment yesterday in the debate on the resolution on NATO. We want to complete the internal digital or energy market. Finally, the question of posted workers must be resolved once and for all by amending the current directive. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the Reform Movement wants the Union to continue to strengthen, because we believe that the current disunity weakens all the Member States and, consequently, Europe in the midst of globalisation. Our protection is Europe. Our weakness is not the European Union, but the absence of a European Union. The Union is strengthening us. Disunity weakens us. Our political movement wishes, ladies and gentlemen, to regain the ethics of every European citizen and every Member State that founded accession to the European project.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u11	Mr Prime Minister, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the least we can say after the referendum is that the United Kingdom has a major problem. But the EU also has a big problem. We can discuss for a long time whether it was appropriate to hold a referendum. We can discuss for a long time whether a referendum is the right instrument. We can debate for a long time whether the way of debate and the way of campaigning in Britain was the right thing to do with the subject. One thing is certain: a majority, even if it is small, has expressed itself in that country and we must respect it, especially given that the turnout was much higher than in the previous parliamentary elections. The crucial question then, ladies and gentlemen, is how to proceed with the EU and what relationship we will have to maintain with the United Kingdom? This is the first time a country has left the EU. And yes, we know it: after Britain joined, it has always had an ambiguous attitude towards the EU. Britain has never embraced the EU. But we cannot deny, ladies and gentlemen, Britain is not a small country. It is geopolitically an important country. It is an economically very important country and the decision affects all Member States, especially Belgium as a neighbouring country. Ladies and gentlemen, our country and our group have always been very much in favour of European integration, and we will remain so. But we cannot ignore the fact that the EU is no longer touching the hearts of its citizens. The perception that the EU is only there for large companies, for highly educated people, is unjustified, but many people live with it. We must recapture the hearts. We need to convince them again. We need to convince them that the EU is good for all people, and that when we tackle problems together, that results in better solutions than when everyone acts on their own. Ladies and gentlemen, anyone who believes that a separate approach to immigration is successful makes people a little bit of sense. That's what the facts of the past year and a half teach. Anyone who thinks that an economic policy can be developed in itself is blind to a globalised economic society. Those who, in times like today, are calling for safety to be organised on their own should be mistaken. More international cooperation in times of terrorism is absolutely necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make the following observation. Yes, there are many Eurosceptics all over Europe, including in our country. I hear them often, they speak loudly, but I have never heard alternatives with a future perspective for young people. A well-known footballer said: "Every disadvantage has its advantage." Let us take advantage of the Brexit for a better and stronger Europe, not a superstate, but a strong partnership to strengthen, on the one hand, what unites us and what is in our common interest, and, on the other hand, to respect and cherish what we differ in. Diversity and openness go together, ladies and gentlemen. Let us build a project based on reciprocity and solidarity. This is not a project in which we can only get the will of Europe, but in which we are also prepared to bear burdens. This is going to be a Europe that is economically strong. However, it is not just the economy that counts in the EU. Europe is more than economic. Europe is more than the free market. If we want to convince people's hearts, we will have to show a social face in Europe. Free movement of persons is necessary, but without social dumping. Justice, Prime Minister, on the fiscal and social front, must be at the forefront of Europe's agenda in the coming years, otherwise we will not win back the hearts of the people. Colleagues, the new European Commission took office in 2014 as priorities for economic growth, jobs, justice, security and immigration control. Those were the right priorities. Those are people's concerns. It is not a question of choosing priorities; it is a question of achieving results. I therefore have these questions for you, Prime Minister. How can it be clarified in the short term with regard to Britain's exit? What relationship will we develop with the United Kingdom? We can split up, but we're still neighbors. How can we develop a social debate in which we restore people's confidence in the EU? Prime Minister, you have always shown yourself to be an EU defender. We respect that. We will support you for 1 000 %. Belgium is a small country. Let us use the moment of crisis to be large as a small country in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u12	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the flow of history is only exceptionally determined by people or individuals. I think the apprentice wizard Cameron succeeded. He organized a European referendum for domestic politics, I must almost say for personal use. That failed. What he has succeeded in is the reversal of the European clock, for the first time in 60 years. Soon, the United Kingdom might be the Divided Kingdom. Prime Minister, the history books will judge your British colleague, but his people have spoken. My group regrets that the United Kingdom is leaving the European Union. Together we were stronger, but we can only take note of their choice. I am convinced that British politicians must do the same now. If they respect the outcome, the exit clause must be activated as soon as possible. That is not a question of rematching, ladies and gentlemen, that is not a question of resentment, that is not a question of a round of British bullying, that is a question of common sense. After all, the financial markets, the companies, the investors, the economy, do not wait for the Tories to settle their internal war. It is not just the pound and the British economy that bear the consequences, the uncertainty also costs us money. I do not think we should accept that. As far as I'm concerned, my fellow Members are out effective. If one decides to turn their backs on a club, one cannot expect to retain the benefits without the disadvantages. One cannot be a member of a club but cannot pay the membership fee. It can't be. Of course we have an interest, as you have well understood, in far-reaching economic cooperation, but I would like to say quite clearly: no free movement of goods, no free movement of services without the free movement of persons. Anyone who wants to sell on our market will have to abide by our rules and standards. Agreements will also be needed in other areas, such as energy, police, justice and migration. Ladies and gentlemen, a very topical issue that was raised in the Brexit procedure is migration. In principle, as of tomorrow, migrants will be able to leave the European Union again via Calais, via Zeebrugge, towards Dover. That's the irony of the Brexit. If they do not want to be isolated, the British will have to comply with the rules and agreements they wanted to get rid of. Yesterday, the British spoke mainly about the disadvantages of the European Union. I think they are suddenly beginning to see the benefits of the European Union today. Ladies and gentlemen, absolute sovereignty is an illusion in this globalised world. Many challenges are cross-border. The answers have to be, too. There is only the question of how the 27 countries will continue to cooperate. I can follow the analysis of some Eurosceptics. They blame the European Union, among other things, for not tackling problems such as migration. They're right. Europe is not responding adequately today to the challenges we face. However, if these so-called Eurorealists do this analysis, I do not think they can continue to promote the confessional model as a solution. Today's Europe is far too much of a Confederation, a system in which each Member State can veto it. We therefore need more federal decision-making procedures. A lack of such decision-making procedures is why we do not get anywhere with Europe, why Europe is actually standing still today. So let me make it quite clear here that there is too much confederalism for my group in Europe. The system, which some people believe should serve as a model for Belgium, is crippling the European Union today. We at Open Vld are federalists. That is what we are in Belgium and also in Europe. That is a clear position. I'll come to my decision. The European Union must be able to decide again instead of being indecisive. We must move forward rather than rush on the ground. That is why we need a strong Union. In my view, this can also be done by working at two speeds, but also with a more powerful European Parliament and with a more powerful European Commission, to the detriment of twenty-seven veto holders. Prime Minister, my group supports your ambition to use this momentum of Brexit to work around it. We need a Union of action, of results. That's what people expect, nothing more, but nothing less. Indeed, as Mr Verherstraeten said, our country has always played an important role in this process. Today must not be different. That's where your historic mission lies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u13	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am a baby boomer, born in 1953, in a fashionable Flemish family with an almost middle income. I spent my childhood in what I call a strong welfare state. I've determined with my parents that every year there was something added to the income. When I was eight, the family home was bought. When I was 12, the first car came. When I turned 16, the first vacation abroad followed. When I was 18, I went to college. At university, colleagues, my political awareness has come to light. At that time, politically, I started militerating with the European federalists. Ladies and gentlemen, I can assure you that Europe was then worn very widely, rich and poor, highly educated and low-skilled, workers and lawyers. We believed in the European project. We put our political hopes in that. Yet today we have to ask each of our next key questions. How is it possible that we have ended up from a widely supported European project in a situation where broad layers reject this project? You are not mistaken, ladies and gentlemen, not only in Britain, but also in many other European countries, the European project is being questioned. Asking the question forces me to share my answer with you. I summarize that evolution in 30 years in three words: neoliberalism, globalisation and ordoliberalism. The motto of neoliberalism is: the State is the problem, the market is the solution. We saw what that brought us to the financial markets in 2008. Then there's globalisation. Leaving unbridled globalisation on a society does not happen without consequences. The third word is ordoliberalism. This has ensured that, after the 2008 crisis, under German pressure, we have pursued an austerity-based macroeconomic policy, for which the price is paid by the lower layers. Colleagues, the policy mix of these three elements has ensured that the contradictions in our society have never been so great. The blows, the problems are for the lower layers: stagnant wages, precarious statutes, reduction of the welfare state and competition with migrants coming to work at social dumping prices. Those are the consequences for the lower layers. As for the top layer, it is enough to read Piketty, never before in history so few have enriched themselves in such a short time. It is that displeasure about this inequality that in Britain, but also in the other countries, causes ordinary people to wonder where the protection to which they believe they are entitled is. If life is against it, one wants to be supported. People want to have a chance, like their parents, to have a slightly better income year after year. If you work hard, you are entitled to some of the new wealth that is produced nationally each year. That is not the case. My answer is simple. We need a new European project, a project that makes a difference to the past, a project that provides prosperity, security and security for our citizens. The first thing we have to do is not an institutional mass. This is doomed to fail, given public opinion in the European countries. The first thing we need to do is reform the euro area. We must make that zone a Europe again that invests in people rather than ruining them. In other words, priority 1, priority 2 and priority 3 are investment for jobs. That is to say, in addition to monetary union, a social union and, last but not least, a fair taxation. I see you raging, Minister of Finance. You have proven euro-realism over the last few weeks. That is progress on the Tobin tax, and that is stopping a common fight against tax fraud and avoidance by multinational companies. If we want people to believe in Europe again, we need a different policy from this government. I'm rounding up. The second thing we need to do is to combat social dumping. The previous government adopted a law that allowed the inspection services to act in identifying social abuses such as working at EUR 3 per hour in the construction sector. We call on this government to act vigorously. We also call for the capital markets to be strictly regulated and closely monitored. We also want a thorough cooperation between police and security services. Finally, Europe must stop putting the interests of multinationals before those of the people. Stop negotiating trade agreements like TTIP and CETA behind the back of ordinary men and women, as this also undermines confidence in the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 70 years of peace, a single currency, food safety standards, roaming charges, strict legislation against monopolies, free movement of persons, police and judicial cooperation, support for poorer regions. What has Europe already done for us? Europe has already done that for us. Prime Minister, I'm proud to be Belgian. Why? Because you have never given in to the populist reflex of many to tear Europe apart for quick electoral gain. You're not David Cameron, you're not Mark Rutte. But we in Belgium expect a lot from our country. This crisis is an opportunity to make Europe better, to bring Europe closer to the people. Belgium, as the founding father of the European Economic Community, must be ready in that debate. But the question is whether you can go full. Honestly, I don't see it for a while. I think it's in you, but I don't see it. That has to do with nationalism in your government, with conservative forces in your country shining with pride on tea visit to David Cameron, the man responsible for all this debacle. It has to be said, Prime Minister, because we have heard it again today: the N-VA is a firm gravel in your shoe, which makes you slower than you would like. Nationalism leads to fragmentation. Snapping leads to weakness. Weakness leads to deterioration. If there is one thing we can spare in Europe today as a toothache, then it is fragmentation, weakness and decline. I am convinced, Prime Minister, that nationalism is a matter of identity and is therefore important. However, if nationalism means fragmentation, it is a choice of the past, while joining forces is the choice of the future. Let us be clear: the Brexit is absolutely an earthquake for Europe. It is not a good thing for Europe. We will therefore have to join forces. I would therefore like to ask you what your vision of tomorrow's Europe is. How do you intend to get out of the crisis? Business as usual It's really not an option. After all, let us call a cat a cat: when people think of Europe today, the word "saving machine" comes out first, Europe as a cool figure who sanctions countries if they do not make enough cuts. I am convinced that people want a Europe that protects them, a Europe like a warm blanket, safe and reassuring. There's no such thing today. For us, more Europe is not an end in itself. More Europe is a means or lever to create a Europe with a more human face, a social Europe, a Europe that invests in the economy, a Europe that fights climate change and is once and for all rid of fossil fuels and is exemplary for the whole world, a Europe that also treats tax havens harshly. One cannot be too strict about this, a Europe that does not make deals with Erdogan, but has a humanistic vision, even when it comes to protecting war refugees. If we cannot achieve that Europe, Prime Minister, a Europe with people's pride, then I fear that Britain will not be the last Member State to leave.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u15	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Brexit is a dish. A dish you get when you cook a whole population for decades to nationalism, to retreat on yourself, to the fear of the other and especially of the foreigner. This British skewer was served by Farage, Johnson, and Cameron, the main British ally of your ally, Prime Minister Bart De Wever. They served this mix in a delicate context for the British economy, the consequence of the shecherism of the 1980s and the blairism of the 1990s, that is, free trade in religion, where capital and goods can be exchanged, but where human beings cannot circulate. Brexit is the application of nationalism on a day-to-day basis, it is the economic collapse and, in the future, unemployment. It is the flight of capital and above all talent. It is monetary devaluation, but, above all, moral devaluation. Look at these people who are being attacked because they are of foreign origin in Britain! This is the consequence of this neo-nationalism built up as a religion. It is above all the despair of an entire generation, that of British youth under the age of 25. Prime Minister, this bitter potion is the one that your nationalistic allies have been serving Flemish citizens for decades. This unstoppable potion is the one that attempts to impose on the European Union the big business lobbies who are trying to pass the ratification of the CETA into stoemelings or, later, who are trying to continue the negotiation of the TTIP, which European citizens do not want. Did you learn the democratic lesson of Brexit, Prime Minister? Will Belgium in the immediate future propose, finally, the construction of a Europe that defends the general interest rather than some particular interests? We're waiting for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u16	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we will never repeat enough what European integration has brought us, this true project of civilization. A project that puts man at the centre of concerns, which promotes, protects his freedom, his singularity, and his dignity. A humanist project that has guaranteed us more than half a century of peace, exchanges of students, researchers, workers who bring us closer and enrich us. A project aimed at removing barriers and barriers between States, but also between people, which also allows the free movement of goods, services and capital, while at the same time guaranteeing, but not always enough, standards for the protection of the environment and health. This project contributes to our prosperity. It also helps to make our unique voice heard on the world stage and to promote our values, in our interest and in the interest of humanity. This European project, to which we are deeply committed, is in crisis. And not just since Brexit. Europe is experiencing a double crisis, a crisis of legitimacy and a crisis of efficiency. These two crises are mutually reinforcing. Because Europe lacks legitimacy, the states deny it the means to be effective, and because it does not have the means to be effective, it loses its legitimacy. It's a terrible vicious circle. The British citizens, the Welsh citizens decided, after making a major contribution to this crisis, that the United Kingdom would leave this Europe in crisis. It's their choice. We respect it, but it is up to us to make this Brexit not the coup de grace to the European project, but a salutary shock. It is our duty, it is your duty, minister, and that of your government. We can't stay in the middle of the ford. In this matter, if we don't move forward, we step back. The worst would be to unnecessarily prolong the uncertainty which, everyone knows, is seriously damaging. It is therefore necessary to act quickly on the short and medium term. In the short term, the United Kingdom must ensure the prompt launch of the Article 50 procedure, and the United Kingdom must be reminded of its duty of loyalty and use all means to enforce it. Disloyalty can't pay, otherwise it's the beginning of the end. It is then necessary to prepare for the long term, i.e. to prepare concrete and strong responses to the twofold crisis of legitimacy and effectiveness of the European Union, to create alliances around ambitious proposals. These alliances can either generate a training movement or form a hard core that will go faster and further. For our group, it is more important to go far than to be numerous. The meetings of the six founding States seem to me to be a positive initiative, but at first glance they seem disappointing in terms of content. The meeting of the three major founding States that followed a few days ago seems to reinforce this disappointment. In order to relaunch the European integration process, we must of course act on legitimacy, but also on efficiency. Acting on legitimacy is not easy. It takes time. It is also our responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, as politicians. First and foremost, we must stop appropriating Europe's successes and rejecting our own failures. On the other hand, it is easier and faster to act on the effectiveness of decision-making mechanisms and on the distribution of competences between States and the Union. We must accept that, in this area, we will probably not be able to move forward to 27 and that a hard core of states will have to emerge in order to form a genuine federal political union. We can no longer allow progress to be made at the slowest pace, unless Europe becomes more energized before it sinks into bodies and goods. The rules will also have to be simpler, while majorities will have to be easier to obtain, again at the risk of Europe acting too late to appear to be effective. The Union needs to have additional expertise in several areas. I am thinking in particular of the establishment of a Europe that protects every person by means of a European intelligence agency and a common defence. This is obviously even more vital at a time when the fight against terrorism must be maximized. We also need an economic, fiscal and social convergence plan for employment – especially for young people – and a Europe that invests in transport, energy, digital technology and new technologies through a genuine industrial policy of the future and an ambitious climate policy. We will also need a strong banking and monetary union, a Europe that affirms its global voice and is based on and, above all, inspired by active citizenship. Let me also express two strong emotions that I feel in the face of the British vote in favour of Brexit. I feel both hope and sadness at the massive vote of young people for Europe. The legitimacy crisis is clearly less severe among the latter. We can therefore hope for better tomorrows in the United Kingdom, but also elsewhere. However, we are saddened to witness the distress of these young people who have seen their parents and grandparents aggravate their prospects for the future. This must make us reflect on how to ensure respect for the rights of future generations. Prime Minister, today you must express the position of your government as a whole. It is true that you have expressed yourself in your personal capacity in a clear way. However, one of your government partners is a thousand miles from you. What about this visual of the N-VA which circulated on social networks as soon as the result of the referendum was known! You have an excellent communication staff. So it couldn't escape you. What to say about this visual, except that it bears witness to a major identity retreat! It also makes me think terribly about Nigel Farage's big swindle of £350 million in sterling – a dishonest lie deflated by the author himself barely the ink of the dry referendum. The bigger it is, the more false it is, the more it works! The editor-in-chief of the Sun, who has rowed so much for Brexit on the basis of this misleading argument already says that he regrets his vote. What about the repeated words of the N-VA in the last few days. I heard your speech, ladies and gentlemen of the N-VA, where you said that there was no need for a European superstate. Those who believe, you say, that more integration is needed come from Mars. Is that the government's vision, Prime Minister? We snatch each other at home and beat Europe! On this, ladies and gentlemen of the MR, I have only heard your silence. Prime Minister, you need to clarify your government's position here. What pace will you want to impose for the short-term Brexit negotiations? How will you compel the United Kingdom to initiate Article 50? How fast are you going to force him to do that? What European project will Belgium defend? Deepening, how far, how far, and with whom?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 23 June was a joyful day, it was a historic day, it was the most joyful and historic day in Europe since the fall of the Berlin Wall. Independence Day for the British. The British chose to be the boss again in their own country. I am surprised that you are surprised that the British are tired of the greatness of the European Union, its lack of ambition and its meddling. They are tired of having to use Merkels Wir to impose a policy for which they have not chosen but for which they have to pay a lot. As a democrat, I can only be very happy with the fact that, after a month of substantive debate, a people will at least have the opportunity to speak in a European referendum, something that is not allowed here. In a fake democracy like Belgium, as much democracy as a referendum is clearly impossible to cope with. As a European and a European, I can only be happy with the result of the referendum. It has shown that it is time for a completely different European cooperation. The people have made it out of the establishment. The European Union, which plunges the European countries of crisis into crisis, euro crisis, asylum crisis, you name it, clearly has no support for the people anymore. The only dampening of the joy was the repulsive and arrogant reaction of many Europhile politicians who, as always when the result of a referendum does not please them, claim that the citizen did not understand. Colleagues, the only ones who have not yet understood it are those Europhile politicians who do not understand from their ivory tower that if they continue to pursue the course towards European superstate, there will be many more exits than just the Brexit. This government, too, was eagerly involved in the panicmongering of the urophiles. The N-VA may say what it wants in this Chamber, but in Europe this government is almost the leading group on more European Union. This government was part of the panic-mongering business. The Prime Minister was the first to mention the hypothetical job losses of a Brexit, while our citizens have already lost thousands of jobs in the construction, cleaning or transport sectors today, in reality, because of the social dumping that is being organised precisely by the European Union. Minister Peeters could not quickly calculate the hypothetical costs of the Brexit, while our citizens are already paying for the enormous costs of countries that do not keep their households in order, of the disastrous asylum policy that the European Union is pursuing, of the euro crisis, of deals with Greece and Turkey, and of course also of the enormous costs of the European Union itself. Prime Minister, I have two specific questions for you. Firstly, are you going to give the people of this country the democratic opportunity to express themselves, like the British, on the future of this country in the European Union? You're in favour of referenda. Or are you afraid of the people's opinion? Secondly, you mentioned the outcome of the referendum as a wake-up call. My question is, are you awake? Are you awake to connect the correct conclusion to the Brexit?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u18	You need to stop now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u19	There is a need for a different cooperation, reduced, effective and efficient. Have you understood the message of the Brexit, in particular that the hopeless course towards European superstate needs to be radically reversed so that the strength returns to the democratic nation states?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u20	Prime Minister, last week the British people voted 52% for this Brexit. From the outset, there has been a great debate here on the interpretation of this result. Very quickly, as many of your European colleagues have said, I read to you: "There is currently a lack of public perception that the European Union has added value. But that is the case." From the outset, everything is focused on the people's perception of Europe. And you are not alone in defending this idea in Europe. So the European Union is working well. It advances people's lives socially, but the problem is perception. People do not understand the added value of the European Union. It's really amazing! We're even going further. We've made it a generational conflict. It was the older British who voted for Brexit. Youth, on the other hand, wants this European Union that delights it. Now, what do we see? Of the young, 65% of the British between the ages of 18 and 24 did not vote. This means that young people in Britain are no more enthusiastic about this project. The question before us today is: why are the peoples of Europe not enthusiastic about this Europe? This is not the first time the European Union has slammed. In 2005, the French people voted against the European Constitution. What was the reaction? The French didn't understand. What did we do two years later? The Lisbon Treaty has been adopted by parliamentary means! In 2005, a new referendum was held in the Netherlands. The country voted against. In 2008, the Irish people were called upon to vote on the Lisbon Treaty. He voted against. What is being done in European democracies? We get him back a year later. In Europe, that is how you continue to vote until you agree with the sacrosanct Europe. Today is the time to ask the right questions. Why, today, are people against this European Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u21	Let me finish! We don't like to hear that! Keep putting your head in the sand! You have to be able to open your ears. People are getting tired of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u22	It is not because you are disturbed by what the peoples of Europe are voting that you must not let me speak. I'll keep talking, it's obvious! The problem is clear that the European elite are turning the peoples of Europe against each other. Europe itself is a vector of nationalism, because we make the peoples of all the countries of Europe compete against each other: competing for wages, competing for index jumps, competing for workers up to 67 years of age. This competition is organised by our European Union. Our European Union is at the heart of nationalism. Today, the elite earns EUR 10 000 a month and is strongly involved in conflict of interest, but rightly points to the people. Has anyone talked about Neelie Kroes today? What does Neelie Kroes, European Commissioner say? Let me read it out: 'After my term with the Commission, I will no longer assume any responsibility in business, not even in a bed and breakfast'. Where was Neelie Kroes? At Uber, at McDonald's and so forth. The European Commission, that's just Optima files squared. And you want the people to have faith in that Europe today? Prime Minister, it is now time to leave a blank sheet. It is time to say that the social and democratic rights of peoples are superior to the free movement of capital, to the free movement of goods and services. It is time to say that the Treaty of European Austerity must be abolished. We have to get back from a white leaf. It is time to say that States have the right to maintain public monopolies. It is time to say that it is forbidden to have social regressions in countries under national legislation on behalf of the European Union. If we want to found a European Union today, and I believe in this solidarity between the peoples, we must go back from a white leaf and abolish all these treaties that are organising excessive competition between the peoples. We must return from a white leaf that guarantees a Europe of peoples and a social Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u23	Mr President, Prime Minister, the result of the referendum in the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland on membership of the European Union is the result of one of the greatest political and intellectual scams of this century. Scams, because the conditions for the debate in this referendum were unworthy of a prime minister who, after denigrating the European construction for years, believed that he would be able to win a referendum within a few weeks, which he wished to organize for partisan purposes, not even in the interests of his country, simply seeking the cohesion of his own political party. Europe's future is not determined by a party's problem, whatever it is and whatever its importance in Europe. It was, of course, a path without outcome that any visionary mind had to predict. It is time to say, especially to those who would be tempted to follow this path without a solution, what is the price to be paid when choosing to leave the European Union. For us, we cannot try to make this choice to finally renegotiate the band's status as a member of the European Union. We are in the European Union or we are outside the European Union, without having the opportunity to participate in the common ambition! This must be told to all States and Governments that would experience this temptation. It must also be said that it is the responsibility of some governments in Europe to convey the message of distrust of the European Union, not only of mistrust, Euroscepticism and even of Europhobia, and always based on racism, discrimination and exclusion. This is because, no doubt, the European Union has been too weak towards those who are weakening its democratic ambition, which remains its greatest achievement. All those who come to say that everything needs to be rewritten from a blank page forget what the European Union's achievements are, which are considerable and irreversible because it is the condition for collective prosperity. It must be said to those States that do not want to respect the European Union's road map that the sanction can also apply at some point in time. There is a need to strengthen the ranks around the initial project of the European Union. Of course, there are policies to be corrected. Of course, fiscal convergence policies have been too drastic and will have to be reviewed. But let us not pretend that in the name of this policy adaptation, it is ultimately the whole European project that needs to be grounded. Let us take this into account: governments have been involved in these decisions; this has not been the case of a single European institution, but of those who have been involved in the decision in the European Councils. But it is not because there have been errors of appreciation or inadequacies in the choice of economic and budgetary policy that we must now disregard the European project. Daniel Cohn Bendit is right to say that the debate on the European future will be the real dividing line between political parties in Europe. I shall increasingly draw the attention of public opinion to this point: it is not surprising today that an extreme left and an extreme right join, often with the same arguments, in order to undermine the future of Europe, that is to say, our achievements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u24	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, England is a great and old democracy. It has chosen to leave the European Union and to take the path of independence. Brexit is also a tremendous promotion of the direct democracy of the referendum that traditional parties fear so much. I would like to congratulate the English people and our friend and ally Nigel Farage, for leading this fight for almost 20 years and winning. For many of you this vote is a shock. For the People's Party, on the contrary, it is the logical consequence of the contempt of political, financial and media elites for ordinary citizens and, in particular, those who suffer. For too long, this technocratic Europe, which is so undemocratic, has been deaf to the aspirations, fears and complaints of the peoples who make up it. The peoples of Europe do not want the immigration invasion tolerated or even encouraged by Europe and Merkel; they do not want social dumping, because the borders have been unwisely opened up to workers with very low wages who are throwing tens of thousands of Belgians into unemployment. What would you say, ladies and gentlemen, if you were a driver earning 3,000 euros a month for a difficult and demanding job and you were now competing with a Romanian driver at 600 euros a month? What would you say if, as a construction worker, you were now competing with Portuguese workers, paid 3 euros an hour, and now had unemployment, and then social assistance, as the only prospect? Are you shocked by the Brexit? Prepare for Nexit in the Netherlands, Frexit in France, Chexit in Czech Republic. You can be certain that if the European Union continues to behave as it does, the peoples of Europe will turn their backs on it when they are asked for their opinion. Of course, we are aware of what the European presence brings to Brussels today. Of course, we are not anti-European. We love Europe but not the current European Union. We want a Europe that respects the identity of sovereign peoples, respects the sovereignty of the nations that make up it, and the primacy of our parliaments. We do not want an artificial European identity. We can cooperate together with a free nation, benefit from a large internal market for free trade in goods and may entrust certain prerogatives to a supranational authority, but strictly limited. Above all, this authority must be directly elected by all peoples. Democracy is a regime that has the capacity to kick the ass of unsuitable leaders, exactly what we cannot do with current European leaders, representatives of the traditional parties that have always supported this European project. Open your eyes and ears, at last listen to your fellow citizens! Europeans do not want more Europe, they want less, but above all better Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are indeed facing an important, delicate and difficult moment in the history of the European project. Everyone here is aware of the weight of the United Kingdom not only in the world but also in Europe. Britain is an economic, political and military power. No doubt, and everyone has expressed it, that we have to accept the democratic choice expressed by the British people. Nevertheless, this choice, in my ears, resonates like a wake-up radio, a slam for those who believe that the European project must have a future. I would like to point out that, in my view, we are facing two challenges for the coming months and years. The first is to develop a new relationship between the European Union and Great Britain. The second is the future of the European project and the consequences which we want to draw from this message sent by the British people today but which could very well be felt by other people in the European Union. The first challenge is the future of the relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union. In this respect, the European Council has, I hope, given a few clear messages in recent hours. Firstly, Article 50 is the basis. This means, in concrete terms, that the new British Government will have to send a notification as soon as possible. That is our message: as soon as possible! Secondly, there is no negotiation about the future of this relationship, not formally and not informally, without prior notification from the British Government. We were many around the table trying to convince David Cameron, who was attending his last European Summit, to act as quickly as possible to avoid insecurity and instability. We have received some clarification on the political situation in Great Britain. David Cameron also pledged to have a successor in early September. This is a first point I wanted to point out. Finally, as far as relations between Britain and the European Union are concerned, I would like to reiterate the need to remain united at 27 to try to avoid the risk of disintegration and dismantling of the European project. In the context of these relations between the United Kingdom and the European Union, there is another strong commitment that we have made over the last few hours. It's a clear message. It is not possible, on the one hand, to place itself outside a European project and, on the other hand, to obtain all the benefits. I can't. This means that the message is strong and clear: without free movement there is no access to the internal market. That's another clear signal. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that we will have to work intensively and Belgium will have to play a key role, I hope, so that, as soon as notification takes place, we can defend our economic interests. We have a real interest in Britain's economic and political well-being. We have nothing to gain from instability or insecurity in Britain, but at the same time we will ensure that our economic and social interests are protected within the European project. The second challenge is the future of Europe, the future of our European project. I would like to share with you the experience that I have gained, as may have been the case with my predecessors. For just under two years, I have been a member of the European Council. We come together to systematically be seized, mobilized, to undergo crises, to be defensive. I am thinking in particular of the financial crisis, the refugee crisis, the crisis in our negotiations with Greece, the crisis in which we have been called upon to prepare an agreement for a referendum to be held in Great Britain. That is not my conception of the European project. In my view, we must all mobilize to have a project with hope, conviction, values and the aim of improving the ability of European citizens to live better through economic dynamism, innovation and social cohesion. These are the convictions I want to share with you. Very soon after the results, I advocated a conclave, for an informal meeting with the 27 Member States, a political meeting to draw lessons and provide a perspective for the future. I would like to be more specific about that. I note that we have agreed to hold this meeting on 16 September. In this context, it seems to me that we need to put some key elements on the agenda to demonstrate that Europe is indeed an added value, because it produces concrete results that are perceptible to the public. One of the first points is, of course, security, both inside and outside Europe. We were hit dramatically. We have, once again, begun this meeting with a minute of silence after referring to the tragedy of terrorism. We must learn lessons and cooperate better in the area of security and in the exchange of information. If we believe that the Schengen area is an added value, it is important to better control its external borders and to better exchange data and information within this area. A second point seems essential to me. It is about building on jobs and growth, freeing up the initiative and the ability to create value, and also supporting – I share this reasoning – a stronger strategy in terms of strategic investments. Strategic investments for the future can have a positive impact on growth. That too is a very important point on which we must be able to have a very open political dialogue in the next few weeks and months, in order to provide a perspective. I also mention the strengthening of the internal markets, a real single market for telecoms and more commitments for COP21. There are two challenges: the development of new technologies and the development of investment capacities for the energy transition can also offer opportunities and, at the same time, support for growth and economic development! I share the argument that social dumping is the best argument for those who want to fight against European commitments. That is why we need to work harder at European level. We are trying to take many initiatives with the European Commission. I hope that in the coming months the door will open so that we can make concrete progress, similar to the progress we are making at Belgian level. However, I would like to mark my difference on a message that I heard at the beginning of some benches in this House. I believe that freeing up the initiative, ensuring that trade activity and the exchange of goods and services can be deployed has always led to greater prosperity. History has shown it. Indeed, I see some reversals, for example, when it comes to TTIP or CETA. Under the previous legislature, a mandate was given by the Belgian Government to start this important negotiation under the TTIP. And I note that, according to studies, this TTIP could lead, in particular in Belgium, to additional growth. Belgium would be the second country to benefit most. This would create jobs and fund social cohesion, as well as our protections. The models of economic downturn, of closure folded in a state way, are collapsing one after the other. Look at what is happening in Cuba today: freedom to undertake, freedom of initiative. There is no personal freedom until there is economic freedom and freedom to undertake! I am convinced that for the previous generations, the generations directly or indirectly affected by the Second World War, the added value of our European commitments was clear and evident. The countries which have waged war in a dramatic and tragic manner, which have torn themselves apart in pain and sorrow, which decide to build together an area of peace, security, respect, tolerance and openness, is a fundamental added value of the European project which we must of course preserve. But we feel well and I feel well, as many of you - everyone has expressed it with their ideological conviction and sensitivity - that the time has come to be very determined to ensure that there is a political project much closer to the concerns of the citizens, realistically, without considering that it is the great speeches and the great flights that will dominate. The aim is to examine, in an operational and practical way, in the short, medium and long term, the results that can be achieved in areas that directly affect the daily lives of our citizens. In a word, stop with the Europe of crises! Let us stop with the Europe of lamentations! Let's stop with the Europe of withdrawals! On the contrary, let us try to bring a two-speed Europe of projects, so much so that we can move forward more quickly on certain topics with those who wish to do so! Let's try not to feed the caricatures! Let's try not to feed the anger on the European project! Let us objectively see the added value! Let's see how we can do more, how we can do better, how we can do harder! In any case, be convinced that the Belgian government as a whole, with realism and pragmatism, intends to be a key player in the face of these two challenges: the future of the relationship between Europe and Britain, on the one hand, and the renewal of the European project and the revival of a project with values, hope and concrete commitments for our citizens, on the other hand.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, we agreed on two minutes per group for the replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u27	Mr President, thanks to the presentation by a number of fellow Members, I have discovered the difference between education and politics. In education I asked a certain question and I got all different answers. Some politicians, whatever questions are asked, all have the same answer. This is dramatic after what happened in Britain. It is not a purely British problem, otherwise I would understand, but it goes much further. This has got to get us thinking. We have to understand that the old answers that have been formulated in the past can be revised. I am very pleased that my group does not fall into the trap of the false choice between the absolute open borders and the superstate, even though they are called federal and, on the other hand, the raising of high, closed walls. After all, you have heard here today who is enjoying this debate, who is victorious in this debate. We must realise that if that choice is made in this way, the victors of it are not the ones we want to make tomorrow's service in Europe. In the meantime, I was surprised to hear a green plea for large scale. Perhaps Europe brings us to all sorts of strange thoughts. Ladies and gentlemen, we are looking for a new balance between the two very important concepts of Europe and diversity. In this search we can use the slogan, the motto of the European Union of the year 2000, as a directive, and I hope that this is more than just a slogan: 'United in diversity'. That is the path we must take tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister, I have heard you, but you have carefully avoided raising this question: is there, yes or no, a shared point of view within your government? For you, that's yes. Good. And you will even be supported. But it must be noted that many statements go in a different direction. Let us accept, and hope that we can have a voice and leadership in our country, with a broad consensus and unity within your Government. As far as the relationship with the United Kingdom is concerned, knowing how to negotiate the United Kingdom, it is clear that we cannot let it go over time. I really hope that if Brexit is there, the call for Article 50 is very quick. You know that not everyone among your colleagues shares this desire for speed. As for the Europe of the twenty-seven, as you said, the priority is employment and young people. I believe that there is sufficient flexibility in the current treaties, if they were to be used, to implement significant investment plans in all areas of production, education and new technologies. I also think, and this is where there is a difference and a difficulty, that we must solve the problem of social dumping. Citizens, and in particular citizens of our country, cannot bear to see jobs at home being destroyed while people coming from elsewhere receive wages of the order of 3 to 5 euros per hour. It's absolutely impossible. Fiscal harmonisation, competition between European countries is also an important handicap. I do not share your point of view on TTIP and your little word: "Free initiatives". But, Minister, who in this House is not to "liberate initiatives"? Is anyone opposed to "liberating initiatives"? [[Brouhahaha]] Release initiatives. Of course, we have given a mandate, but that is no reason to abdicate. Believe me, the analyses we have done for TTIP and CETA are in the opposite direction to what you have indicated. I mean, one last word. Mr Miller said this: I really think that within the euro area, the area of the nineteen countries with the euro in common, further steps must be taken. This must be part of the package and development of the European Union, a concentric development of the European Union. I know that it is difficult and that nothing is simple, but it seems to me normal that we, who have the common currency, should have a system with a deepening, greater fiscal and social harmonisation of our system. Our job is to ensure that Europe is loved by Europeans.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u29	Mr President, Prime Minister, I thank you for the elements of your response that you have provided and that our political formation will not surprise anyone, it will be widely shared and in which we find ourselves. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u30	If I had said otherwise, you would have been surprised! So don't pretend to be surprised that I'm saying it! Having said that, Mrs Fonck, you said that we did not respond to certain aspects that you pointed out. Reread the statements I have defended and you will see that all these elements are clearly expressed. We know exactly, at the level of our political formation, what a European project we are defending and we are happy to find it in the government's project. I will quickly take up something that I pointed out earlier in my presentation. I repeat this because I did not think that Mr. Hedebouw, in the rostrum, would have the same words as those I recommend you to listen to. You will find them easily: these are the statements made by Marine Le Pen before the European Assembly. Mr Hedebouw, with the respect I have for you, the natural respect we have for a colleague, I invite you to make the effort to listen to what she has said before the European Parliament. You will probably be surprised, I am not, to see how much your arguments, your examples and your demonstration at this forum stick almost word by word with those of the far right. Ladies and gentlemen, with my words, I repeat what Mr Maingain said wonderfully earlier. Unfortunately, Europe is suffering today. What do we see? The two extremes, to the left and to the right, like two vultures lenched by the same prey, begin to pull out the head. It's scary. I believe that all democrats, regardless of their political commitment and the training to which they belong, must be targeted at the fact that the extremes are the ones that have caused the worst abuses, the worst crimes and the worst conflicts on European territory. I will conclude by recalling the words of a great French thinker, Ernest Renan, at the end of the 19th century. Questioning what a nation is, he replied: "It is a plebiscite of every day, it is a adherence of all citizens renewed daily". He goes on to say, "After the nations, it will be Europe's turn." Ladies and gentlemen, Europe must also be a plebiscite every day!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u31	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your commitment. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not because European decision-making is sometimes difficult and therefore slow, that we must constantly bash Europe. Stop it! That is what I say to my fellow Members who are constantly doing so. Dare to confess honestly which of the realizations are. Decades of peace on our continent, that is not natural, especially today. Do we want to return to prosperity from 50 to 60 years ago? I don't. I want to move forward with Europe. We are geopolitically stronger. There is more cooperation in the fields of justice and security. But we can do better, we can do more. Then we will have to invest in more social progress rather than social dumping, in more fiscal justice rather than tax competition, in more openness and cooperation. From diversity can come unity, as long as we don't fold back on ourselves. Ladies and gentlemen, after the outcome in Great Britain, we have been warned. The skeptics and the populists barely knew the result and we could see that they had no plan B. We could see that they already came back to the promises they made during the campaign, for example the promise to invest more in social progress. Colleagues, let us keep such populists in mind and let us not be surprised by hollow slogans, such as Brexit, Vlexit or whatever.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u32	Prime Minister, first of all, I would like to ask who today is strongly and firmly defending the European project in their own country. If one compares what Heads of State or Government declare after a European summit in Brussels and how they defend the results of that summit in their own country, then one could find aberrant differences. Who else has the strength of conviction to defend Europe effectively? I believe that there is a huge deficit in this area. Unfortunately, many Heads of State or Government have today identified Europe as the source and cause of all the problems that exist. I have not led a department throughout my career where I met British people who said yes to more Europe, more European deepening and more European integration at the European Council table. It is impossible to defend a European project if it is constantly stated in one's own country that Europe is not the solution, but the cause of the problems. That must be made very clear. We urgently need to demonstrate what Europe can do. Who dares to say today that we can tackle problems such as the banking crisis, the financial crisis or the migration crisis? Some are in favour of further splitting up the Member States, to make it even easier, in a globalised world. We therefore need more Europe, but nobody dares say that more Europe is needed if we want to solve the asylum and migration crisis and the financial and economic crisis. I come to my final conclusion. Let us perhaps seize the moment of crisis to make progress. I am not gloating with what has happened in the United Kingdom, but what has now been harvested has naturally been sown. Everyone should now stand in front of the mirror and clarify the possibilities in the existing treaties for deepening Europe further. If we have to do more with fewer Member States, it is an option for me. I repeat that one cannot remain a member of a club if one constantly questions that club itself. For me, the Brexit is, in other words, an opportunity. I was not happy in the days after the Brexit, but I believe there is an opportunity today to do what must be done urgently with the remaining countries. Mr Miller referred to a writer. Rostand zei ooit: "It is the night that it is beautiful to believe in the light". During the night it is nice to think about the light. That light needs to shine. I hope that it will be a wake-up call for the European Heads of State or Government to defend effectively again with fire the European project, in which I believed so much in my youth and in which I want to continue to believe. Prime Minister, that is what you stand for in the coming weeks and months. Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u33	In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make three points. First of all, this is what I have to say. Prime Minister, the water between you and the opposition is much less deep than between you and the largest party when it comes to the Brexit negotiations. We agree with you. Unfortunately, it is our damned duty to defend the interests of our country and of the twenty-six other European countries. So there can be no soft Brexit. We agree with you. The negotiations must be speeded up. There must be a clear distinction between the ins and the outs. The price of non-membership must be dissuasive. Perhaps other countries are playing with the same idea. Finally, what was decided yesterday by the twenty-seven Heads of State or Government, namely that there can be no single market à la carte, is a matter for which the opposition is also in favour. Secondly, I note that there is still a difference of opinion on the diagnosis and the reasons why we are facing these problems today. We are in favour of Europe. However, we also clearly want a different Europe. We do not want a Europe that allows the gap between rich and poor to increase. We do not want a Europe that allows the benefits of globalisation to be at the top for a few and that the problems are for those below the summit. We will continue to insist on this point. We will continue to point this out. It's really not difficult; that's why I just told that personal story. If people feel protected by their governments and Europe, the people are in favour of Europe. If people feel that their governments and Europe are leaving them with their problems, they are against Europe. So you will have to convince the ordinary people of the importance of Europe. The best thing you can do is to make people feel that Europe is there to help and protect them if they have problems. The third and final point I would like to ask from the opposition is that, in the light of the summit in Bratislava on 16 September, we have the opportunity to debate each other across the boundaries of majority and opposition. I know it's a tradition for you to come to the summit, but I'd like to do a little more extensive exercise. We have already tried such an exercise, but it should not be concluded with a resolution, because the N-VA did not agree with the consensus between all the other majority parties and the opposition parties. It's too important, Prime Minister. I have little or no confidence in a party that will most likely remain among the conservatives at a time when the Tories will be led by a Brexit supporter. I have little faith in an N-VA, which remains in a group with the PiS, the largest Polish party. It is clear that the Eurorealists stress the diversity and that always leads to separation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I note that every time we talk about European projects, the members of the N-VA do not applaud. Prime Minister, in my opinion you are being undermined from the inside and in order to be able to carry out the European project that you have developed in this forum, it will take a 'N-VAxit'. To succeed in the European project, we must return to its essence, namely solidarity, which implies solidarity policies such as the introduction of a minimum wage, a minimum tax for companies or health protection by banning, for example, glyphosate in the short term. This can be done around a hard core. However, on this point, we have not heard you. However, it is possible, around a few European countries, to build an integrated Europe based on solidarity. You talked about CETA and TTIP as if they could save Europe, but it's exactly the opposite. Indeed, with these treaties solidarity is being undermined. It is to give the keys to the market of the European Union, which has 500 million inhabitants, to multinationals. This is not what Europeans, and in particular the Greens, want for Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u35	Mr President, Prime Minister, who can still believe that we will succeed in meeting the challenges of the 21st century, in terms of globalisation, migration, trade, research, training, climate, social dumping with less Europe? Believe it would be an illusion! It is true that Europe has always experienced its acceleration through crises. The Brexit is obviously one, but we have the ability to make this shock salutary by moving faster and further, around a hard core formed by the founding states, with concrete and ambitious projects. Ladies and gentlemen, Brexit is first of all an identity vote, a back-up vote supported by identity parties, populist parties that live by opposing citizens to each other. I hope, Mr Prime Minister, that your choice to join a nationalist identity party, a Eurosceptic party, will not undermine the position Belgium has always defended on the European scene. Our country has always been an engine. He must continue to play that role. Prime Minister, this is your responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u36	The British have had the courage to choose sovereignty, democratic accountability and self-determination. The British will do well, as will the Norwegians and the Swiss. They will do better than those countries that are in an EU grade. The Prime Minister's reply was very clear, and my fellow Members of the N-VA have undoubtedly heard that this government is opting for that EU body of quality. As a solution to the problems that the European Union has brought, as a solution for the people who are full of this European Union, this government is calling for even more European Union. Prime Minister, if you do not seize this opportunity to create a completely different European cooperation, with much more sovereignty for the Member States, then a nexit, a flexit, and, as far as we are concerned, a vlexit, will be a reality faster than you think possible. Mr Van der Maelen put the finger on the wound when he said that you want to be strict with the British in view of the dissuasive effect. After all, you fear that countries will follow. Well, if you continue the course towards more EU, that will undoubtedly be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, one year ago to the day, 85% of Greek youth voted against European austerity. This has not given rise to much debate. We didn't care. The Commission had decided; the Greek people would be crushed. It was like this and life was going to continue. Today, when someone dares to compare me, as Mr. Miller said, with what right-wing populism says, I want to say that, really, you didn't understand anything at all. You have not understood how much this European Union, itself, is creating nationalism in Europe, how the competition of workers with each other in the European area today is a vector of this nationalism that will seek problems in others. I am not going to convince you, but I am going to take advantage of my last thirty seconds to address all the European workers: amigos y compañeros, comrades and friends, vrienden en kameraden, my friends and comrades, the European elite is dividing each other. It is distilling, with the right-wing populist parties, the racism that divides you. We've known him for a long time. In order to change this Europe, we need unity between workers, whether in France, Poland, Romania or Great Britain. Together, we must dare to change this Europe. That is why, together, we must wage the fight against racism that divides us, against the right-wing populists who divide us, for a Europe that must now return from a blank page with a Constitution that will respect the peoples of Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u38	Mr President, today, by consulting the websites, we learned that Boris Johnson will not be a candidate for David Cameron's succession. This is proof that those who led the Brexit campaign don't know where they're going. This is now being noted. When we have been the leader, in the Democratic camp at least, of those who have advocated the exit of the United Kingdom and who have renounced the highest responsibilities, it is because we do not have the courage to assume the consequences of the choice that we have sought to impose on a whole people. Prime Minister, I would like to join you, but I would have liked to hear an even more committed tone. It will take more than realism. It will be necessary to find the fervor of the founders of the European Union, of the pugnacity, again and again of the pugnacity. Why? To those who claim that the European Union is a failure and that it is the failure of the elites, to take up a common term on the extreme left and the extreme right – see Mrs Le Pen's statements – I want to say this. In reality, it is not the failure of the elites, but the failure of the distillers of a speech at this point in violation of the European Union's demand for solidarity that Europe's leading line today has been lost by those who should assume the primary responsibility for it. That is true, it is the only political project that has brought about true solidarity on our continent, as we have never known in history. I hope that there will be enough lucid minds, be it among the people, in the middle classes, among the political decision-makers, to save what remains - for many countries and peoples in the world - a unique reference and hope, because Europe remains a hope in the world!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u39	For the next mini-debate, the speaking time will be two minutes per speaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u40	Prime Minister, last night, your government had a dream. Not the Dream of a Summer Night, dear to Shakespeare, but rather a night vision that will serve as a strategic plan. It is without any strategic plan that you will represent our country next week at the NATO summit. Once again, this government has been forced into action. At the end of December, we had to content ourselves with a simple announcement by the Minister of Defence of certain strategic points, which were immediately described as idiots by one of your Deputy Prime Ministers. Why would it be different this time? Under this government, Belgium was to become NATO's best student. It was just "com"! The time has come to take stock: 7 000 job losses, 2 billion savings (a record), never so few Belgian soldiers deployed abroad and the commitment of the military in the dark, as well as their morale! But, above all, this vision consists in the promise of military purchases for more than 9 billion, of bulimic purchases, decided without European reflection, in view of the displayed Atlanticism of the N-VA, sending the bill to the next government, since this government will pay nothing. Prime Minister, why did the Defence Strategic Plan promised in the Government Agreement become a nocturnal strategic vision? Who will pay the bill for the purchases you have decided? With what budget commitment for this legislature are you going to go to the NATO Summit in Warsaw? Is it true that aid to the nation will fall under this government? Finally, will this vision answer the question of the future of military quarters both in the North and in the South of the country, while yesterday, again in committee, the Minister of Defence did not answer that question?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u41	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a document has apparently been leaked. It happens every once in a while. This time it was price again. First of all, I would like to ask what document that is. Is that the long-awaited strategic plan or not? Either this is the strategic plan, but when I asked you yesterday on the National Defence Committee about a state of affairs, you said that there is no strategic plan yet. If the leaked document is the strategic plan, I want you to explain the impact on the barracks and on the Defense personnel. That must be in the strategic plan. Either it's not the strategic plan and then I want to ask you what it is. Is it yet another phantom plan, is it a new design version? On 22 December, we saw the so-called strategic plan in the National Defence Committee. Afterwards it turned out to be just a powerpoint presentation. The confusion is immense and the military are asking for clarity. Everything is on hold within the Ministry of Defence: the procurement policy, the recruitments, and so on. We've been two years with this government. This has taken far too long. What is certain is that you will purchase 34 fighter planes with the government for no less than EUR 3.4 billion. This is a pure prestige decision. This is not rational and shows budgetary pride in the difficult saving times in which our country and its people find themselves. Moreover, such an investment hypothesizes the expansion of our army in almost all other domains. I have the impression that the government is holding on to the purchase of these fighter planes because it wants to bomb with the big boys, but that is at the expense of other sectors within the Defense Department. I hope you can see this. Finally, what is also certain, Minister, is that we do not specialize very much in the defence sector. We should have dismissed tasks, I say it rightfully to invest more in other tasks, to go there to excellence, specialization and cooperation with our European partners. In this way, we could have added value to European defence. From that point of view, this is one big missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u42	Mr Prime Minister, Minister, last night we had a rather spicy discussion about the NATO summit in Warsaw at the end of next week. There was criticism from the opposition, it is the opposition's duty to be critical, because there is still a lot of uncertainty about the defence budget and about the strategic plan of Defence. The opposition asked whether there could be a commitment from the government that something could really be told at the Warsaw Summit, because nothing is as bad as coming empty-handed. That was the opposition's criticism, which, moreover, did not believe that anything else would be presented. The Department of Defense is an important department. It is important to continue investing in the future in order to give the military a future, to guarantee our security, now and in the future, and to remain a full and reliable ally. The evening continued, we went deeper into the night. What does it turn out this morning? However, agreement has been reached in the government on a preamble and a strategic vision text. It sets out sufficiently clearly what investments should and will be made and what budgets will be made available. There is also a reduction in staff, but at the same time the emphasis is on more operational employability, and more young people need to work in the Defence Department. Attention will also be given to the core tasks of Defence. I have the impression that this is a logical course of action. At the end of last year there was the Christmas agreement, in which the principles were made clear. This is further clarified in the government's current commitments. Minister, what exactly has been decided? Do the decisions involve policy changes compared to last year's Christmas agreement? What are the concrete next steps in the implementation of these decisions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u43	Thank you, Mr. President, Prime Minister, Minister of Defence, the strategic vision was obviously expected, in particular, by those who love our National Defence, by those who are attentive to the fate of our military, by those who are attentive to the fact that our country remains a responsible actor and a reliable partner, by those who are attentive to the need to take off the bad reputation that began to be attached to us for a number of years. Indeed, for a number of years, we have been disinvesting in National Defence. We are on the eve of the Warsaw Summit. Prime Minister, it is clear that beyond the issues related to NATO's relationship with Russia, the point must be made at this summit on the investment of NATO member countries. My first question would be to ask you for confirmation. If I've read well, finally, we're reinvesting in National Defence. Finally, and this had not happened since the end of the cold war, we would go back to the 1% mark to reach between 1.2 and 1.5 per cent of GDP by 2030. We are, if you will confirm this, in a phase where our country is turning the page to 25 years of disinvestment at the level of our National Defence, as part of this strategic vision, which, like all strategic plans of course, extends over several legislatures. Another important element, and we wanted it as Liberals and Reformers, is the passage through the law of military programming. Previously, we had a plan that was planned by the government and that was not before Parliament. In view of the presentation of these laws of military programming, it is a question, Minister of Defence, that you communicate to us the agenda you have in mind for this Parliament with regard to the most important investments. I come to my last point. If I read correctly, we can turn our backs to the minimum required for the earth component. This sufficient minimum, which we owe to our socialist friends, is clearly responsible for an increasing demobilization and attrition rate. Finally, it would be interesting to obtain some additional information on the articulation of the earth component around five motorized brigades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u44	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister for Defence, ladies and gentlemen, our world is experiencing turbulent times. The environment of Europe, but also outside, is less stable and less predictable than it was ten years ago. Terror is a constant threat. Moreover, if we see that countries such as Russia and China have invested heavily in the modernisation of their armed forces in recent years, we are all a little concerned about our security. Prime Minister, my group congratulates you on your strategic vision to ensure the safety of all our country's inhabitants. We are also very pleased that last night the strategic vision paper for Defence was adopted. There are choices made. It is chosen to invest back in Defense, both in material and in people. A slimmer but more efficient army is chosen that will be more easily unfoldable and deployable. Prime Minister, next week you're going to the NATO summit in Warsaw. There you can show that we are a partner of solidarity and loyalty, that we have always been, and that we have a plan to remain in the future. The strategic vision paper adopted last night also gives you a clear mandate for this. I would also like to stress once again that our group remains in favour of a stronger European defence force, and this is not contrary to the NATO strategy. Prime Minister, I have three questions. What exactly is the status of the agreement reached last night? How will you propose this next week in Warsaw to NATO partners? What are the next steps to further implement the plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u45	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last night we discussed the resolution before the NATO summit. In passing, I did not see or hear Mr De Vriendt at the time. The first point in the resolution concerns the submission of a strategic plan. That plan is needed to reaffirm our military and diplomatic credibility. Yesterday, the government took note of the Minister's strategic vision, which included a number of important measures by 2030. Firstly, there was the commitment to increase the budget to the European average. Secondly, there will be large investments, amounting to EUR 9.2 billion by 2030. Thirdly, the number of defence personnel will be increased to 25 000. Prime Minister, I would like to stress that it is very important for our group to be able to live up to our ambitions in foreign operations at international level. The military must be modernised and rationalised in the coming years. An additional budget of EUR 200 million, Mr Van der Maelen, will be allocated to this legislature. There will be a long-term vision with a compass for 2030, opening new prospects for Defence for growth. Prime Minister, you will be attending an important NATO summit in Warsaw in 10 days' time. The world is on fire, our safety is at stake. We want you to send the right message there, first and foremost with regard to our citizens, but also with regard to our allies. Prime Minister, what promises will you make at the summit to reassure your fellow Members? Will you bring out concrete figures and commitments? Mr Secretary of Defense, now that we have an insight into your strategic vision for defence, we wonder what will happen to the barracks. Will some be shut down? Will the budget of EUR 9.2 billion be sufficient to make the necessary investments in the coming period, including by your successors? Finally, our military have been living in uncertainty for several months. Are our military getting the security to engage in Defense?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u46	Prime Minister, you are going to attend an extremely important meeting. We know the serious threats to Europe's security on its eastern and southern flanks. We know the ambition of this summit, which will talk about deterrence, cooperation with the European Union, cybersecurity, intelligence and enhanced cooperation in this area, among other equally crucial issues. However, Belgium will be pale. His military spending budget has collapsed since you took the lead in this government. You're a no-header, but this morning I consulted NATO statistics that confirm it. Defence spending fell by about 6% in 2015. The Court of Auditors gives the same figures. They'll continue to collapse. I saw the budgetary correction exercise we worked on yesterday. Defence's budget is going to collapse again by 5%. It is curious today, through what is no longer a strategic plan but a vision – a political object difficult to identify – to pretend that you are going to reverse things. Your successors will reverse fiscal trends, but until the end of this legislature, the fiscal trajectory will continue to move towards a decline. That is what the figures say at our disposal. You will therefore be pale because you have no credible budget, no strategic plan, no law of military programming, contrary to what Mr.Ducarme says. It is true that you approved the preamble to this strategic vision – but not the rest of that vision. These three very important instruments were promised by your government at the beginning of this legislature. Today they have lead in the wing. I appreciate the intellectual effort and the document that was given to us. On the other hand, it is not a political tool for this legislature. He commits the following. I have never seen a government preparing the budget, not the next government, not the next government, but the government following the next government. That is exactly what you are doing today, Prime Minister. I agree that it bothers you that I say it and repeat it, but today the reality is there! Defence's got a budget at dungeon. The military has morale in their heels. We no longer have the means to deploy the military as we had in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the various questions that have been addressed to the government. I would like to focus my answer on the two subjects of the Warsaw Summit and the strategic vision. As far as the Warsaw Summit is concerned, many have mentioned that we are at an important moment because we feel that this summit, which takes place in general every two years, is taking place at a time when it cannot be said that the security situation has improved or would have become more reassuring. Both in southern Europe and in the east, we are seeing renewed conflicts and renewed tensions. This implies that there is this commitment at the start of the Heads of Government and Heads of State to try to see how, together, we can strengthen the measures, how, together, we can cooperate to deal with this shared diagnosis of the security situation. I confirm that we will support the strategy to continue to mobilize for enhanced deterrence, that we will continue to try to mobilize more resources for collective defence, to try to strengthen cooperation in particular in the fight against terrorism and to develop strategies for the fight against cybersecurity and cybercrime. We also note that alongside the challenges in southern Europe, it will be important to develop an ambitious strategy not only at the start of NATO but also in other forums. I am thinking of the European Union and the United Nations as part of the dialogue with Russia. Forever, Russia will be Europe's neighbour. Forever, it will be necessary to find the way between, on the one hand, an ability to uphold the values we embody and, on the other, the ambition to succeed in political dialogue with Russia. At international level and in accordance with the government agreement, this government has confirmed a strategy. The strategy is confirmed by 3D development cooperation, humanitarian aid support, diplomacy, political dialogue, political engagement and defence. Mr. Dallemagne, you've used us to more intellectual correction. We have sometimes sat on parliamentary committees together. What is the reality? The reality is that in Europe, since the Cold War, there has been a heavy downward trend in defence budgets. It is not specific to Belgium, it is not specific to the last two years. This is a major trend in which budget savings have been achieved, significantly, on the back of Defence budgets. The important message, which I learned very quickly when I became head of government, is the call for solidarity in defence and for credibility. A few times I have had the opportunity to meet with those responsible for our NATO partners. I heard their call. We offer a credible answer. What was the call? The call was that in the short term, this is important, we would stop the savings on Defence. That is what we are doing, in order to provide a perspective for the next few years as quickly as possible. Finally, Mr Dallemagne, you have made absurd remarks in this rostrum. You said that in defence, investments do not cover several legislatures. But that's still the case. In terms of defence, contracts are so important that each time they have a financial impact on several legislatures. I confirm to you that resources will be mobilised during this legislature. For example, €200 million will be made available to neutralise the effects of the downward trend in defence budgets, which contrasts with previous budgetary decisions. Indeed, for the first time, Defence is being stabilized with a prospect of growth. Ladies and gentlemen, we are fully convinced that our military, mobilized for our freedoms, our security, on our own soil, as has been the case since the tragic attacks that have affected our people, but also on foreign soil, deserve to be supported by this Parliament and this government. I am rather proud to lead a government that has worked hard, for months, seriously, with a concern for credibility to be able to meet this strategic commitment for the future. Moreover, and above all – this is the whole meaning of the work that will be carried out – the Council of Ministers has asked the Minister of Defence to implement this project, on the basis of a serious document containing 114 pages, which makes a diagnosis, identifies guidelines and which will allow us to continue to progress in the weeks and months to come. I therefore dare to say that this legislature undoubtedly represents a turning point in the right direction for Defence in Belgium by moving to a new page, to a new chapter. This too will have to be put to the credit of this majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in a moment I will return to what the members of the opposition think they can say. This morning I could read on all kinds of sites that they know better than anything else. In any case, the document has 144 pages. This has been noted in the Council of Ministers. It was approved by the Council of Ministers with a preamble, with a clear mandate and mandate for the Minister of Defence to go further, concreteise and develop it. Mr De Vriendt, I challenge you. I know you may have emotional problems with 144 pages. The document is available online. I invite you and the other members of the opposition to perhaps look beyond the first page. I ask you to stop having silly discussions about vision, plan and strategy. Please read the coalition agreement. The Minister of Defence has been instructed to develop a long-term strategic vision. Well, I'm giving you 144 pages of long-term strategic vision for Defense. That brings me to the status of this document, which Mr Buysrogge is asking for. The status is very clear. It's the basis of where we're going with our defense for the next 15 years. That basis means that we will be back in the middle of Europe. It is therefore also a realistic plan, because I did not aim for a growth of up to 2%. I didn't mean to be the first in the class, because that wouldn't have been realistic. I am in favour of an approach and growth that should be feasible for our country as an important country in Europe under normal economic conditions. This vision gives a view of a defence that is multilaterally united, not only in terms of output, for which we are already known today, but also in order to ensure that we can continue to make the contributions we make at international level and for which we are appreciated. Mr Ducrame, I can confirm to you that the plan is very clearly turning its back to the minimum insufficient. We're going to invest in five motorized battalions, properly equipped to carry out their missions. Other colleagues also asked about the situation with the barracks. Mr Yüksel, we have spent a long time working on the strategic plan. We have also taken all the steps necessary to develop a good strategy. Firstly, we have carried out a good environmental analysis and drawn conclusions from it. Then we looked at what we, as a small country in Europe, can do to provide answers to these international security challenges. Very clear choices have been made. Those who take the trouble to read beyond the cover will find that very clear choices have been made. That's the decision we made last September. Today we have finished the document in which we say how we will do it. At the moment, we can effectively ask ourselves where we are going to do that. Colleagues, I don't want to worry anyone. I have the impression from a number of questions that I get out of the opposition that the opposition is rather gung ho to close a barracks here and there and to worry people. Well, I can tell you today that we are going to a Defence Department with 25 000 people and that we will ensure that these people will be given decent housing as well as decent equipment. I hope that my colleagues in the government will be able to make a proposal on this very quickly. As regards the possible uncertainty in the military and the waiting for answers, I can tell you that this afternoon a so-called flash was sent to each individual military with a number of provisions in the report. I will use the next few weeks to explain more about what we have planned here and there in person. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this government has effectively been able to bring about a serious turnaround, a serious turnaround in the end of the peace dividend which had clearly been used up. In doing so, we can give the 30 000 people in the Defense Department today the assurance that the government believes in what it is doing and that it also knows the important contribution our Defence is making in terms of international security. It is also prepared to take the necessary measures, both today and in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u49	Mr Prime Minister, no doubt you did not want to arrive naked at the NATO summit, which I understand from a political point of view! It is, however, in this vision that you will come to grips with. You confirm to me that this dream or rather this nightmare vision or night terror does not teach us anything, since nothing is not funded, cut, or thought! You just used a consumer credit worth EUR 9 billion. Therefore, the only solution that stood for you to represent our country at the NATO summit was to hide behind this artistic blurry. I would like to conclude with a more general reflection, Prime Minister. We just talked about Brexit. If this exit from the disunited Kingdom translates in concrete terms - we need to know that the United Kingdom was one of the European states most opposed to the creation of a European defence - perhaps we have a chance to finally create the conditions for pooling the costs of the European states in terms of European defence and finally to create this European defence pillar which is so lacking to us. Thank you for your attention and I hope that the European leaders, of which you are a member, will seize this historic opportunity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u50	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for the answer, but do I understand that this complete plan has not yet been approved, but that the government has only taken note of most of it? Here again we have a second, third version of a strategic plan that has not yet been fully adopted. I can only take note of that. We do not hear about the barracks and the staff, but what we have heard about for two years is the purchase of the fighter planes. How can you say that this is a rational choice if there is an overcapacity of 2 000 aircraft throughout Europe? The purchase of EUR 3.4 billion is therefore not a rational purchase, but is purely prestige. There's a lot more to this plan than buying the fighter planes. We could have done a lot more with this. I repeat what I said just now: this is one big missed opportunity for our defense.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u51	Mr De Vriendt has clearly heard a different answer than I have. Yesterday there was a screaming of murder and fire. The government went to Warsaw empty-handed. Well, I think the answer from the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence proves something else. I would therefore like to call on my colleagues in the opposition to show some political honesty. It is true that figures are being put forward here. There is an ambitious plan, a text of vision for this, which is still very important for the future of defence. You're taking this off like it's nothing. I would nevertheless like to plead for some political honesty. I wish the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence every success in Warsaw. It is important that we continue to profile ourselves as a credible partner, and not only that, but there must also be actions and actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u52	Mr. Chair, Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. There is a vision, but an immediate investment of about $200 million for rolling stock and the BEST program, these are two programs that will be realized immediately. Indeed, Mr Van der Maelen, the earth component will live our way out of the minimum sufficient as a relief. I think you do not fully measure what we have had to endure because of the sufficient minimum imposed by Minister Flahaut. We also have clear answers to the vision. I would like, Mr Minister, to allow you, as soon as possible, to present to Parliament the laws of military programming. The sooner it's done, the sooner we get engaged. As with other strategic plans, this must cover several legislatures. There is nothing new about it. Mr Dallemagne, Mr Pirlot, I have been dealing with defence issues for a very long time. And I have to tell you that having a strategic vision that puts the bar on an investment share of 1,2 and 1.5% of GDP is simply unexpected! I know your interest in defence matters. You should be happy about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u53	Thank you, Prime Minister, Minister of Defence, for your explanation. I have learned, ladies and gentlemen, that there are two types of politicians. There are the short-sighted politicians who go from election to election and there are the visionaries. I am glad to be part of a group that can support the visionary government. This plan, this vision, is ambitious and looks far beyond 2019. That's how it's supposed to be. That's right in politics.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u54	You're kidding?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u55	Mr Calvo, I know this is new to you. In your party, they don't know that, vision. We're all familiar with that. My group is pleased to hear, Prime Minister, that you are going to Warsaw with a positive message. It is positive for our partners, positive for our country and our people, and also positive for the entire defence apparatus, because people are being invested in. It is clear that your ambition is to reform the army, which is also necessary, and finally to equip our men and women in the field so that they can perform their mission safely and successfully. I wish you every success in Warsaw.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u56	Mr President, I would like to remind you of a few points. Firstly, for the opposition's colleagues, if the world is on fire and there is an attack every day, two days ago in Istanbul, then we must not doubt. We should not be dirty to invest in our security structure. We owe that to our allies. We also owe that to our fellow countrymen. Secondly, I hope that you will vote in favour of the NATO resolution together with us. Prime Minister, it is good that you are going to the summit with a clear message. It is also important that you provide certainty and clarity to our allies there. Today, more than ever, we must show our solidarity in terms of guaranteeing our security, throughout the world. I believe that NATO is an important and an excellent tool to ensure this. We are a credible international partner. We have to stay that way. Mr Secretary of Defense, you now have a vision, you can start working on it in the weeks and months to come. We will, of course, support you in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u57	Mr. President, Prime Minister, we know your communication. You do not hesitate, when the figures bother you, to use adjectives that I find quite inappropriate. No! My demonstration was not absurd. She was faithful to the reality of the numbers. Contrary to what you have claimed, the reality of the figures is that a whole series of NATO countries have increased their defence budgets, especially the Netherlands and Luxembourg within Benelux and all the countries that are east of NATO and have the impression that they bear much more than others the threat they face. Yes, these countries have reinvested in defence while you are making sure that the defence budget collapses. So you announced a figure – typical of government announcements – and you said that €200 million was going to be reinvested. At what time, Prime Minister? On the end of the legislature! How much did you spend on the defence budget under this legislature? EUR 1.5 billion. The accounts are not good, Prime Minister! They're not good! They are covered by EUR 1.3 billion under this legislature, which is as much as over the last ten years. That is the reality of the figures, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u58	Mr President, I will ask my question from my bank. I'd love to be at the front, but you're obstructing sight, which, of course, isn't as good.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u59	Mr Vanvelthoven, it is indeed better in the other way. I'd like you to start with your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u60	Mr President, Minister, the annual report, published today in the press, contains some worrying reports on the number of tax controls. I'll give you the numbers. The number of controls on corporate taxes has decreased from rounded off 450 000 in 2013 to 182 000 in 2015, or 40% less controls on corporate taxes. In-depth controls on personal taxes fall from 111 000 to 57 000 during the same period, either almost half or 50% less thorough controls on personal taxes. I find that disturbing. According to the spokesman for your administration, the direct reason for this is a significant reduction in the number of inspectors. The figures are also available. The number of auditors in personal taxes has fallen from 502 to 314. In corporate taxes, their number has fallen from 779 to 584. Minister, I would like you to explain this to me. You could say that this may have something to do with tackling tax fraud, which means less control. That would, of course, be the credit of the Secretary of State for Combating Fraud during the previous government. I therefore suspect that you will not make that argument. You regularly announce additional staff in this Parliament, but these figures show something else. I know there's something in the pipeline. Our group finds this evolution quite disturbing. Such a decline in income means............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ After all, there are fewer revenues to close the gap in your budget. In addition, I have listed the various taxes that are either at the Constitutional Court or at Europe's side, and you yourself admit that they do not make any difference. So we are not just dealing here with a problem of fair taxation and control of whether everyone pays fair taxes. We also have a problem with your budget. Minister, how do you view this situation? How do you think you can solve them?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vanvelthoven, first of all this remark. For several weeks now there have been negotiations which I myself am involved in, with the FPS Finance Summit and with the trade unions. As you may have read, several syndicates have expressed their satisfaction over the past few weeks with the way in which these negotiations are conducted. There are issues such as internal mobility within the FPS and the implementation of control functions. The negotiations are progressing constructively and I would like to keep it that way. There is now a great deal of attention to the statements made by one trade union representative who, if I may say so, makes it an annual habit of telling this kind of story over and over again. In fact, I do not think that his assumptions are always in line with reality. If he says that the disappointing tax revenues have nothing to do with the economic climate and the economic environment, it's about denying sunlight. I would also like to point out once again that the FPS Finance still has 22 000 staff and as such, with the exception of the Defence Department, is still the largest public service. We come from 30 000, that is true, but with the 22 000 we are still the largest public service. By working more efficiently, the number of controls has indeed fallen, but it is also happening in a very different way and efficiency is evident from the following simple but very important figure. Corrections, usually or almost always due to checks, generate an additional amount of EUR 60 000 on average. Three years ago, that was EUR 44 000. The controls are now much more efficient than in the past. This has mainly to do with the way they are organised and selected. Centrally controlled controls have the advantage that, on the basis of, among other things, data mining can be selected much more efficiently and that many inefficient controls can be removed. In addition, they offer the advantage of equal treatment, whereas in the past, on a local level, there have been wrong situations. We continue the efficiency exercise, which has been going on for years within the FPS, and we do so in consultation. In any case, I intend to continue this discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u62	Mr Minister, you mentioned denying sunlight, but I can see that in your reply. You are right about the efficiency exercise; it is starting to pay off and controls are becoming more efficient. You are right to say that, and you are right to say that, on the basis of figures, the average of the taxable additional income has increased. That is a good thing, but when I look at the global figures, you cannot be satisfied. After all, the overall figures show that in two years' time there are 1 billion fewer revenue increases on which taxes are to be levied. This is soon about EUR 250 to EUR 300 million less tax revenue. Is that what you call efficiency? That's anything but efficiency. Don't deny the sunlight, Minister. This is a problem. I think it is a social problem and a problem for your budget. Put your hands out of your sleeves and make sure that you are properly checked. Then we come to fair taxes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u63	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u64	Following the terrorist attacks on Tuesday 22 March 2016, the following Parliamentary Assembly expressed my condolences: - the Chamber of Representatives of Japan; - of National Assembly van de Republiek Servië in - the Parliament of Montenegro. In connection with the terrorist attacks on Tuesday, 22 March 2016, I received messages of support and condolences from the following parliamentary assemblies: - the House of Representatives of Japan; - the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and - Parliament of Montenegro.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u65	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 1883: Karolien Grosemans, Peter Buysrogge, Dirk Van Mechelen, Veli Yüksel, Peter De Roover, Tim Vandenput, Rita Bellens, Peter Luykx, Damien Thiéry, Denis Ducarme - 1577: Georges Dallemagne, Benoît Lutgen, Vanessa Matz. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these two motions for resolutions. I propose that you devote one discussion to these two motions for resolutions. (Sentence)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u66	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1883/4) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1883/4) The meeting's open. The discussion is open. Zijn rapporteurs for Heer Crusnière and Mr Miller. You have the floor, Mr. Miller.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u67	Mr President, I do not think I am wrong in assuming that the various speakers in committee will be keen to defend in the gallery the analyses, the points of view, their commitments to our country's participation in the international coalition against Daesh. In order to avoid repetition, I shall confine myself to recalling some factual elements of the debates that took place in committee. We have dealt with two motions for resolutions, that of Mr Dallemagne et al. and that of Mrs Grosemans et al. By 19 votes to 4, with 2 abstentions, the last motion for a resolution was adopted as a working basis. Amendments Nos 4, 6 and 11 by Mr Dallemagne were adopted unanimously and Amendment No 1 by Mr Pirlot. The whole motion for a resolution as amended was adopted by 20 votes to 3, with 2 abstentions. At the request of Mr. Van der Maelen, documents were added to the report: an article by Professor Wouters published in De Standaard, a study by the Max Planck Institute and an advisory opinion of 9 July 2004 on the legal consequences of the construction of a wall in the Occupied Palestinian Territory. These texts concern, in particular, the question of the application of the concept of the right of self-defence to attacks committed by a non-State group such as Daesh. Professor Wouters believes that this view is not widely shared in international law. This opinion is not that of the majority, as our colleague Mr Yüksel has put forward arguments which justify military intervention against non-State actors, and therefore against Daesh. For the rest, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u68	Mr President, since the ink of this resolution is dry, ISIS and his followers have once again struck in a cowardly and bloody manner the day before yesterday in Istanbul. The military elimination of their leadership, their planners and the entire support organisation in the safe ports in Iraq and Syria is crucial and urgent, for our own security but also for the security of citizens and refugees in those countries. An impressive coalition has taken on this task and is counting on us to accept our responsibility. The resolution before us stresses the feeling of many people that we were attacked by IS and therefore have the right to defend us, not out of revenge, but to prevent a repetition in the future and to put an end to this barbaric threat. People's representatives are not lawyers in this matter. They therefore express the sighs of a people who want justice and order and protection from dangerous threats. That is why the resolution calls on the government to take action, but with respect for international rules of law. The government's decision is limited to extending the planned military mission to Syria. Our resolution goes far beyond the military aspects and encourages the government to adopt a global approach. In recent years, military action has proved to be an indispensable part of any strategy to eliminate IS. A diplomatic negotiated solution with IS is impossible and humanitarian aid and reconstruction can only really get going after the occupied territories have been liberated and the millions of refugees can return to their country. During the joint debates of the Committees on Defence and Foreign Affairs, there were a few votes against the resolution. I hope to find out in a moment why some felt it was necessary to protect IS from the bombings of our F-16 soldiers. On behalf of the victims in Brussels, in Paris, in Orlando, in Istanbul, but above all in Syria and Iraq, I call on all fellow Members of this House to send out a clear and united message to ISIS and his accomplices. Our government has taken on its responsibilities and hopefully Parliament will do the same on an important subject as the deployment of our armed forces abroad so that our soldiers feel broadly supported in the heavy and important task ahead of them. I want to end with the home front, the partners who stay here, wishing much strength and the military a lot of wisdom and, of course, a preserved homecoming.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, for the PS Group, our country's military decisions require prior consultation with Parliament. We remember the statements made in September 2015 by Minister Vandeput, who had been willing to send troops to Syria, or by the N-VA group leader wishing to intervene in Libya. While it is true that the decision to enter the war is not constitutionally binding on the federal Parliament, it is essential that the House be consulted and not only informed. I am against the resolution on the situation in Mali, which was adopted by the House on 17 January 2013 under the previous government when we were not in day-to-day business. Today, the majority, after many concerns about quorum and procedure, propose that we reproduce this ex post exercise of the government decision already taken, with the text before us. A text debated in committee in the absence of the ministers concerned, which I can only regret. We can therefore only take note of the decision taken by this government to extend to Syria, and not only to Iraq, the mandate of our F-16s engaged in the fight against Daesh, which is embodied in the "Request No. 1" of this text. In the face of this decision taken by the majority alone, and with a view to 1 July, when the Belgian hunters will take over the official role of Dutch aircraft, my group is convinced that it is up to our assembly to provide a better geographical framework for this Belgian intervention, the original text speaking only and unfortunately of Iraq and Syria. I will come back to that later in my speech. In substance, I would like once again to point out that it would be a good thing for the PS Group that all means should be used in the fight against terrorism and against Daesh, including at the military level, but not only. A 3D strategy (diplomacy, defence and development) of the international community is needed. The bloody attacks in Brussels and Istanbul recently remind us that this is a complex and multifaceted struggle that requires a well-considered response. Indeed, the use of force is still a failure for diplomacy, even if we are faced with terrorists killing in the name of religious radicalism.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u70	It is in this sense that the PS group has supported and continues to support our military intervention through our F-16s in Iraq, as foreseen in a clear framework in the September 2014 resolution. European and international solidarity in the fight against terrorism and against Daesh is essential, as is regional involvement, which is central. That is why I would like to commend once again the work of our military members in the international coalition against Daesh – the military whose expertise is recognized by all. This intervention has brought down several jihadist bastions and must continue with Belgian participation, in particular in a defined UN framework, and bearing in mind the willingness to prepare for the future. At the political level internal to Iraq, all efforts must be continued to ensure that the Iraqi government becomes as inclusive as possible, beyond local communities, and restores its authority throughout the territory. However, if, in the face of such a group, it is not time for inaction, Belgian military intervention cannot take place in the denial of international law. Belgium is a rule of law and must remain so. For us, such an intervention cannot be carried out outside a very specific UN framework, so far absent for the entire Syrian territory – contrary to what prevails in Iraq. Indeed, I challenge anyone in this assembly to find a line – I am saying "one line" – of a UN resolution giving the green light to such strikes throughout Syria. We debated it at length in committee without the majority being able to demonstrate it. Still in committee, we have never received a clear answer on this point, except that Minister Reynders has made clear to us: "UN Resolution 22/49 has not been adopted on the basis of Chapter 7 of the UN Charter". In other words, it does not allow such strikes in Syria. At the meeting on 18 May, in extremis, however, he replied: "It is on the basis of Article 51, and at the request of the Iraqi government in terms of defence and self-defence against attacks coming from Daesh, particularly located at the level of a part of Syrian territory over which the government does not have control, that we intervene". We find this argument in the letter sent to the United Nations by Belgium. However, request No. 1 of the resolution did not take up this geographical argument referring to Syria in general. Too blurry and therefore too dangerous. To this end, I tabled an amendment in committee: "Having taken note of the government's decision to intervene in Syria, we wanted this amendment to bring the text of the majority resolution into line with the international framework described by the Foreign Minister". The majority supported this amendment. Thanks to this socialist amendment, the House now strictly regulates Belgium's intervention in Syria, where Daesh is active, since there is no international mandate to intervene outside this perimeter. For the PS group, in the absence of a clear UN framework for Syria as a whole, it is unimaginable to negotiate such strikes in Syria with the murderous regime of Assad whose impunity cannot be negotiated. It is up to us to learn from the Bush era in Iraq and Afghanistan, but also from the Sarkozy era in Libya. It is not enough to bomb to solve such a complex situation. No intervention alone can put an end to radicalism and fanaticism in a lasting way. We must also take into account the political developments of our coalition partners before intervening in Syria. I am of course thinking of the very forthcoming presidential elections in the United States. In the event that Mr Trump wins, what would our country do in this context with a likely change in US international policy? I would like to conclude with three points. First, the dangerous attitude of the majority towards Assad and his murderous regime. Several sensitive amendments by my colleague Mr Dallemagne and my group have been rejected. Amendments that all insisted on the responsibility of the regime of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad for the development of the terrorist group Daesh and that its impunity is not negotiable. They supported the need for international justice to do its job, as well as for all other abuses against civilians and particularly targeted populations, women, Yazidis, homosexuals, etc. Our country must strongly support international justice. The second point concerns my questions about the behaviour of this government vis-à-vis the greatest wealth of our Belgian army, these women and men who participate in operations abroad. While the means are sorely lacking, the commitments are at the lowest in the history of our army, and the trainings of our military are heavily compromised, until when are we going to fire on the rope? Not a word about these essential budgetary and human resources is included in the text. Thirdly, and most importantly, let us recall that the reaction of our country and the international community to the jihadists around the world, and to such crises, cannot be exclusively military. It is for this reason that we have asked for the presence of Ministers Reynders and De Croo every time we resume. We must become more involved than ever in any initiative aimed at helping the populations affected by these abuses, in humanitarian terms, but also in political and socio-economic terms in Iraq, Syria, and, of course, in the neighbouring countries hosting the most refugees fleeing barbarism. Diplomacy and pacification will be the only answers in the medium and long term. No bombardment in the world can be a solution to the indispensable political and diplomatic resolution that is to be found in the post-Assad era, a post-Assad who obviously cannot go through it. This decision by the government must also lead to a reflection on the fight against radicalism and terrorism within our country and the European Union. The Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry will also have to draw conclusions, including on the impact of foreign policies on this matter. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, the majority must take their part in international security, but this military responsibility we take goes hand in hand with a heavy diplomatic and political responsibility to do everything possible to stabilize the region and combat impunity. For all these reasons, namely a lack of legal solidity with regard to international law, a lack of a realistic exit from political crisis, a lack of development-related resources, my group will abstain from this resolution. I shall end, ladies and gentlemen, at least those who listen to me, by inviting you to read Gérard Chaliand's book "Why do we lose the war? A new Western art." This end connoisseur of the Middle East and strategic relations concludes in these terms: "We lose the war because we finally have no war goal. We are prisoners of regional alliances (Turkey, Saudi Arabia, etc.) which do not pursue the same objectives. Even if we defeat Daesh with bombardments, the reminiscences and resurgences of jihadism will continue to exist in other forms until a lasting political situation is found in this region and the pockets of poverty where jihadism thrives have been eradicated." I shall end with a little nod to my esteemed colleague, Denis Ducrame, who, whenever he speaks, cannot help but mention my name. It must be a political obsessive disorder. Throughout the Defence Committee, you have kept reminding me that under the previous current affairs legislature, under the Di Rupo government in which Mr Reynders was Minister of Foreign Affairs, they took off at the time we voted. Well then, Mr. Ducrame, you've done a lot harder because the planes have already left on Monday!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u71	Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to take note of your criticism of the intervention in Libya, in which Belgium participated, to remind you that our country was headed by a Prime Minister whom you knew well! For the rest, in view of the comments I heard during the debate on the strategic plan, I note that some have not renewed their copies. I have thus heard – but unfortunately he is not present – Mr. De Vriendt told us that the commitments in the strategic plan for the replacement of the F-16s were high-profile expenditures. We see how much replacing our hunting is not a matter of prestige, but an essential issue of safety. We are debating and exchanging today because it is useful to do so, even if an entry into war is a decision of the government. The House did so on May 18 with the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence. We had a long first exchange on the merits of the government's decision at this time to re-engage in Iraq, but this time it is Syria. On two occasions, Mr President, we had sufficiently long and good debates to finalize a text supported by 20 parliamentarians; three had opposed it and two had abstained. Ladies and gentlemen, contrary to what you have said, we have been able to fully demonstrate that the legal legitimacy of this intervention is fully assumed. I do not understand your abstention or the opposition to this text on the part of sp.a and Ecolo-Groen, and I do not know whether the Belgian citizens will understand you after this demonstration of the need to intervene militarily against Daesh. I agree with what was pointed out in the debate we had on 18 May with the Prime Minister and the two ministers I mentioned. A strictly military solution is not enough. And it is for these reasons that the 3D dimension (defence, diplomacy, development) is part of the government's approach to the theatre of operations and to the conflict in which we resume. We have already intervened in 2014 and 2015. It is clear that bombardments do not regulate anything except that the elimination of Daesh also goes this way. It is not a question of negotiating or having any political exchanges with those who strike Europe, which hit our capital on 22 March. If the government has made the decision to intervene in Iraq and Syria, it is simply because we must destroy Daesh. It is clear that the solution goes first and foremost through this stage and that the work of the international coalition, together with the operations carried out by the Kurds and the Iraqi army on the ground, are two elements of our military action which must be continued until the complete destruction of Daesh. It goes through the bombings. It goes through war. Of course, we must go to the end and participate in this war effort alongside the members of the international coalition. I therefore do not understand what the Socialist colleague said when he said that bombing was not the solution. This is part of the solution. At the same time, we must produce diplomatic efforts. We've had quite a rich exchange in committee on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u72	You're interpreting my words! I didn't say that! I simply said that this was only part of the solution and that, in this case, there was no way out of a realistic political crisis at the moment and not enough resources for development. It's not the same thing at all. I did not say that we were necessarily hostile to bombardments when necessary, but that this should be perfectly integrated into a balanced triptych.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u73	Mr Pirlot, you agree with the government's vision at this level. I congratulate you and thank you for that. I am pleasantly surprised. Indeed, you will remember that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs developed on May 18...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u74	Mr. Ducrame, I'm fascinated. You're the only layman I know who knows the Jesuit language as well. You interpret each of my words in a different way. It's amazing!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u75	Still, in my opinion, there are several stages. In committee, we had discussions, including with Mr Hellings, Hellings, to ensure that cultural and religious mosaic was restored in the region. These are elements that we have insisted on and we will be able to return to. It is clear that today's place for Sunni people in Iraq is not enough. We know that in the long run we will have to ensure that religious freedom is guaranteed in Syria and Iraq, both politically and culturally. There is a whole series of issues that will have to be addressed by countries, including ours. We will have to think about humanitarian aid – you know the investments that are made in this area – as well as the reconstruction and development of the region. In my view, this government does not have a dynamic going into war. The aim is to work on all three aspects. But it is clear that today our F-16s must participate in the total destruction of Daesh. And it must be noted that, thanks to the strikes, the latter has been falling significantly for a number of months. This should encourage us to step up our efforts in this area with the coalition. Basically, you are not very far from our vision and perhaps, at the last minute, invite your group leader, Laurette Onkelinx, to amend the vote on this motion for a resolution. Will you dare do it? We'll see. But let's get a little more serious again!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u76	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u77	Unfortunately, some things should have been settled in committee.I attended the debates and I saw members of the opposition parties opposing, like Mr Hellings. I still don't understand why. Maybe he'll take the time to reexplain it one more time. I have seen the Socialist Party abstain and the CDH vote on this proposal to preserve the essence of what is a national approach that must bring together as widely as possible. That is why we voted in majority on many of the amendments that have been proposed by the opposition. As far as possible, we must go beyond – that was our intention – a number of partisan divisions. It is a matter of seeing our men go to war zone, beyond the trainers who are already present, and hitting those who struck us, destroying them. This decision, not that we take because it is a decision of the government but that we accompany by our exchanges, sees the life of Belgians put in danger. So "small politics" clearly has no place in this kind of debate. In view of this, the discussions have been of good quality. I conclude with a tribute to those men who left. Think of the risks they take for our safety here! We can only pay tribute to the courage of our military in this intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my group naturally supports this motion for a resolution and recognises the need for Belgian participation in the intervention in Iraq and Syria and thus the extension of the field of action of the bombings from Iraq to Syria. For us, ladies and gentlemen, it is important that a 3D approach is developed for this purpose. Firstly, we must look for ways of restoring political stability there. We must also look for ways to tackle the humanitarian crisis. As many fellow Members have already said, it is important to combat IS and other terrorist organisations in the field. It means that we must make full use of diplomatic and political efforts to tackle the conflict there. The opposition's colleagues are asking why we should bomb in Syria. I believe the answer is simple. If terrorist organisations are hiding in Syria and attacking from Syria, I think it would be incredibly foolish of us not to anticipate that. Terrorists such as IS do not take borders into account. We will act in accordance with international law, taking into account international rules of law. With regard to the latter, I refer to the Security Council resolution and also to the international customary law of collective self-defense. Those legal bases allow for the extension of the military operation to Syria. The purpose of the motion for a resolution before us is, therefore, to secure political support from Parliament for our military and our F-16 members who will be active from tomorrow. With the 3D approach, we aim for sustainable stability in the region, with sufficient attention to diplomatic and political efforts. We are also counting on the Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister to play their part in international fora and to make the necessary efforts to reach a diplomatic solution. Bombing alone will not suffice. Our group will support the motion for a resolution and we hope that the bombings will produce the expected results.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u79	Mr President, our group also supports the motion for a resolution. It is also important for us that the 3D approach, to which Mr Yüksel referred, is clearly mentioned in the text. In all the discussions on the issue, we have repeatedly insisted that the military approach is not sufficient. Diplomacy and development must also be fully deployed. As far as the latter is concerned, Minister De Croo has already taken steps in the right direction and we expect him to go further. Ladies and gentlemen, at the same time, we must recognise that, in addition to the diplomatic and humanitarian approach, it is still necessary to defeat IS militarily. With these terrorists, who commit crimes against humanity on a daily basis and violate human rights, we simply cannot negotiate today. Even if military intervention is not the definitive solution to the problem, it is part of the solution. If we can contribute to this by extending the mandate of our F-16ants to areas under IS control in Syria, then we must not miss that opportunity. We see that the Netherlands and the United Kingdom, which also have strict rules or commitment, do little air attacks on Syria's territory. However, that is not an argument for us not to extend the Belgian mandate. After all, it gives us the opportunity to launch air strikes on targets on Syrian territory, if the right conditions are in place. Even if we can only make a limited number of air strikes under the new mandate, it can still be an important blow to IS. It is also good to see that our F-16s have only been given a limited geographical mandate. It has also been mentioned in the present proposal. If we want to remain in line with international law, we cannot simply operate across Syria. We need to focus on shutting down the supply lines of IS from Syria to Iraq and hitting IS logistically and financially. It is important that we continue to maintain our Belgian strict rules or commitment to the red card holder to avoid civilian casualties. We have also understood that our F16s are equipped with radio technology because of technical constraints and will not be able to actively combat a large area. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I would like to thank you for the many amendments that have been tabled. A number of amendments, which are fundamental to us, were agreed and we also agreed. However, we could not include them all in the proposal, as our text focuses on the fight against IS and we did not want to throw everything at a lot. Indeed, the proposal for a resolution is not intended to become a Christmas tree to which everyone can cling about everything related to Syria and the Syrian conflict. If we were to propose a resolution on the Syrian civil war or on Syria in general, the amendments would be appropriate, but in the proposed text, which deals with the fight against IS, they would not be relevant at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u80	Mr President, I would like to make three points. The first is the most fundamental issue, whether or not an operation in Syria complies with international law. I say that this is a matter of principle, because, since the Second World War, you can check it out in any government agreement of a Belgian government, it is our country's commitment to respect and uphold international law everywhere and always and to stand up for the observance of international law. This is, I think, an important point. Any operation, any foreign action, must be reviewed in accordance with international law. I referred in committee to Professor Jan Wouters' statement. Professor Wouters says that the grounds put forward, namely Article 51 of Resolution 2249 of the UN Charter, are insufficient to justify an operation over Syria. We have had a debate on this in committee. I had proposed inviting Professor Wouters, who, I would like to repeat, in Belgium, but also far beyond, is generally regarded as an authority in the field of the UN Charter. If he gives an interpretation, I think that this is something that is worth paying attention to. The majority of Members referred to an opinion of the Dutch legal scholar Nollkaemper. I suggested inviting both gentlemen to listen to them. The majority of my fellow Members voted that way. I then asked for the arguments I put forward to be included in the report, which is what has happened. You can look in the report and you will find the three documents to which I refer. I remember Mr Yüksel saying that the opinion of legal scholar Nollkaemper would also be added to it. Unless I look over it, I can't find it. And I am 100% sure that the secretariats of the Defence and Foreign Affairs Committees have specifically requested this. I regret that this is not reflected in the parliamentary document which contains the report of our debate. Professor Wouters' statement is in line with an opinion of the International Court of Justice and 13 judges of the International Court of Justice, which includes 15 judges, have supported that opinion. Two judges didn't do that. It is not a coincidence that Anglo-Saxon legal scholars, who we know have often taken a step in the past with a strict interpretation of international law. Thirteen judges of the International Court of Justice have said that Article 51 applies only to interstate violence. According to Professor Wouters, Resolution 2249 has no legal basis for the simple reason that it is not based on Chapter 7 of the Charter. The use of force shall be permitted by the Charter only subject to authorisation by a mandate based on Chapter 7. In addition, Professor Wouters has also examined the origins of Resolution 2249. This shows that, at the explicit request of permanent members of the Security Council, international law and international humanitarian law must always be respected in the exercise of the mandate given by Resolution 2249, which is not the case in this case. The conclusion is, and this is also my conclusion, that the majority here sets a dangerous precedent and sets a dangerous path. I read Professor Wouters' quote, so that this can be included in the report of this plenary: 'Regarding any disastrous military intervention in the Middle East, we must dare to take a critical look at compelling arguments to legitimise interstate violence, which must remain the exception under international law. Other powers will sooner or later give us a taste of their own dough." Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat what I said in committee. I very much regret that you are taking such a light step on the clear and firm interpretation of Article 51 of resolution 2249. As I said in committee, it was requested on the basis of an opinion from the Max Planck Institute, where German legal scholars have also addressed the issue, that the German Government has decided to participate in the efforts of the international coalition against IS. However, as far as operations over Syria are concerned, it has explicitly stated that it will not participate in violence operations, but will only develop reconnaissance activities. I therefore deeply regret that this majority is so frivolous about international law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u81	Mr Van der Maelen, as an expert, you refer to Professor Jan Wouters. I certainly do not dispute his expertise, but there are as many experts who say the opposite of your expert. I know as many external international legal advisers, external international legal experts who say that there is indeed a legal basis. I quote from the report by Professor Nollkaemper who concludes that: "Victims of violence can be based on Iraq's right to collective self-defense now that there is a valid request from the Iraqi Government, now that the right extends to non-state actors and now that the Government of Syria is unable or willing to act effectively against ISIS. He also says: "The foundation is the right to collective self-defense as enshrined in Article 51 of the UN Charter on Human Rights." So there is certainly a legal basis. What exactly are you trying to do? People are being threatened, raped, murdered, and we're just gonna stand by and say that ISIS isn't a state and we're gonna leave them to their fate. What is the purpose of your speech, Mr Van der Maelen?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u82	I would like to point out to our colleague that I repeat what I said at the outset, it is an established tradition for Belgium to state in its foreign policy that it will always respect the limits set by international law. That is a position of principle, but politically it is also a sensible position. A small country cannot afford the luxury that very large countries can afford. A small country must think about its interests in the long term. Moreover, compliance with international law is in the government agreement that should be your Bible. It says so that Belgium will always subscribe to international law and will respect it. It concerns international law, the Charter of the United Nations, the interpretation given to it, not only by Professor Wouters but also by the International Court of Justice. The International Court of Justice has stated three times that Article 51 should not be used in cases of aggression between a non-state actor and state actors. I am sorry, but if you step over it so lightly, I think you will prove that this is a dangerous majority. If tomorrow or the day after tomorrow China or Russia starts acting against terrorist groups, for example in the Caucasus, on the basis of that same argument, you will no longer have a foot to stand on. Respect for international law has always been an established tradition of Belgian foreign policy. This majority now departs from that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u83	Mr President, I would like to associate myself with the question that Mrs Grosemans has just asked Mr Groseman. Van der Maelen. Your speech is still a little surprising, Mr. Van der Maelen. You seem to say that since there is no provision of international law, we should let Daesh commit his crimes, his abuses, his rapes, his attacks, etc. I'm still really surprised by this kind of attentism, an attemptism that is a bit of a juridism. We'd have to let that happen. In your argument, you even use somewhat strange terms. You are talking about the fact that Belgium is a small country, and that as a small country, it cannot afford the luxury of what big countries can do. What do you mean? I would add another element: Belgium is a small country, but it also acts within the framework of international institutions such as NATO. There are our European partners, there are the coalition partners. Mr Van der Maelen, this legalism, I find it shocking. There is nothing to do, it is not acceptable to reject the idea that we are at war against Islamist terrorism. It's legal, too. There are some recitals. Arguments were put forward, notably by other professors and law specialists. You're going to look for Mr. Wouters as if he were the man who knows everything, the man that should be followed. And finally, following him, we wouldn't do anything. Your attitude surprises me. On the other hand, because of a small translation problem earlier, we did not understand everything. It seemed to me that you said that these elements had not been included in the report. No? So I'm taking that last point off. Mr Wouters, I think democracies have the right to defend themselves. That Daesh is not a recognized State entity as such does not really pose a problem to me. I think we are really right to participate in this coalition and to finish it once and for all with these terrorists and with Daesh.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u84	Mr Van der Maelen, we discussed this in detail in committee. The legal basis for this intervention is clear. We have Resolution 2249. We have Article 51 of the Charter. Firstly, I would like to quote again from that document, which you are also referring to. It is carried more widely than some countries. The fact that the exercise of the right to self-defense extends to non-State actors is recognised. That is not just a matter of principle, as Mr Grosemans has just said. The right to self-defense shall be recognised if the State in whose territory this non-State actor acts is not willing, unwilling, or unable, to act effectively against this group. The criterion can be understood as an interpretation, an application, of the customary requirement of necessity as part of the law of self-defense. I therefore invite you to look forward to the situation in Syria. Secondly, as well as international experts, and I certainly do not want to question Professor Wouters' expertise here, there is the not insignificant voice of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, an institution that is indeed responsible for ensuring compliance with international law. He also follows this view. If you think that Mr Ban Ki-moon has nothing to say and is wrong, I think you are mistaken. Besides, I don't understand your reasoning. You say that as a small country we must respect international law. Are you insinuating that large countries are allowed to violate international law? A country that respects itself must respect international law. With this resolution, with these legal bases, we respect international law. That is what the coalition agreement says, and we will do so in the coming period.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u85	This discussion is important and Mr Van der Maelen has already spoken at length in committee on this issue. In committee, I considered that there was a sound and legitimate legal basis, based on the Security Council resolution and on Article 42.7 of the Treaty of the European Union and Article 51. Before proceeding to the substance of article 51, I would like to reiterate the need to respect international law. This is essential for the future of international relations. We must never forget that international law is first and foremost the right of the powerful, first and foremost the right of the nuclear Powers, first and foremost the right of five member countries to veto everything that is being said and done in the Security Council. That must always be in perspective when Security Council resolutions are constantly invoked. Of course, they are essential, but there is also a whole new right in international affairs, including the responsibility to protect, which takes into account our obligation to protect certain populations who are victims of crimes against humanity, mass crimes and crimes of genocide. We are in that case today. Although some of the Security Council's powers are reluctant to accept it today, we are in this case. Beyond this general consideration, on Article 51, I cannot agree with you, Mr Van der Maelen. Since our discussion in committee, I have inquired. The doctrine that seems to be the majority is that described by Mr. Yüksel. I have seen that this doctrine is carried by a series of academics, professors from different universities, including Professors André Nollkaemper of the University of Amsterdam, Christian Tams of the University of Glasgow, Kimberley Trapp of the University College of London, Raphael van Steenberghe of UCL, Jean Kombako of the University Paris II and Judith Gardam of the University of Adelaide. They agree – and this is where there may be a small weakness in the government's argument – that a state can act in self-defence in the face of non-state armed aggression, particularly within the framework of the unwilling or unable doctrine that my colleague Yüksel recalled. Unfortunately, it is not explicitly stated in the letter that we are sending to the Security Council. This is implied, but it would have been preferable to do so explicitly, as did the Germans, the British and the Dutch. Then I read the argument: "Belgium should provide a second clarification of its justification. Indeed, it would be useful to make it clear that the consent of the Syrian government of Bashar al-Assad is also not an effective alternative to self-defence because of the lack of effectiveness of any cooperation strategy with that government to protect Iraq and fight against Daesh." Nor is a strategy of cooperation with the Syrian government an alternative. It is one of the elements of the doctrine that makes it possible to consider that section 51 applies in this case. The amendment that I tabled in committee, which was supported by my colleague Jean-Jacques Flahaux, referred to the overwhelming responsibilities of the Bashar al-Assad regime in the emergence of Daesh, which would enable this element to be underlined and the legal basis to be consolidated in relation to Rule 51. I do regret that there is a certain weakness in the argument of the majority. My motion for a resolution was much more explicit and made it possible to emphasize this element of law. I cannot agree with you when you say that your point of view is majority. It is a point of view that exists. International law is not an exact science, there are divergent views, but pending the Security Council, the Secretary-General and a number of countries have considered, in a majority in many universities, that international law allows self-defence to be invoked in relation to a non-State group. This seems to be common sense when certain conditions are met. That is what it would have been important to verify, clarify and consolidate. The minister should have made a statement, if he had been present, in order to confirm that we are in this context, this dual framework which allows us to invoke Article 51: the doctrine of unwilling or unable and the argument that it is absolutely not a matter of joining the regime of Bashar al-Assad because it would be counterproductive. It would be particularly dramatic to suggest that he is an ally in the fight against Daesh, also politically, because he is clearly the adversary of the young people who continue to leave, especially from Belgium, to fight on this ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u86	Mr President, I will repeat what I also replied to in committee on the comments that have been made. I mentioned in my introduction that, when the International Court of Justice ruled, two of the fifteen judges disagreed with that statement. I repeat that this means that 13 judges of the International Court of Justice agreed. This is different from those lawyers who try to create a theorem, an idea or a new possibility in international law and start to underpin them in a creative and inventive way. Those possibilities exist, as I indicated myself. They originated in the United States because after 9/11 there was a lot of pressure in the United States to act against Al Qaeda anywhere in the world. We saw the danger of such inventive and creative legal scholars in Iraq in 2003. It was also clear in Iraq that the conditions for intervention were not possible. Moreover, in that intervention, the then purple-green government decided not to participate, just because there was insufficient international legal basis for that operation. At that time, a Belgian government kept to the 50-year-old tradition of entering operations only if they comply with international law. I see you're not doing that today. You have more faith in legal scholars who have just listed Mr Dallemagne. Mr Yüksel referred to Mr Nollkaemper. Those are indeed legal scholars who belong to what I call the American school. That school attracts quite a lot of international law to account for operations abroad. I'm sticking to my position. For a small country, it is not wise to do so. Of course, that is not wise for a large country either. However, that is all the more reason not to allow small countries to join large countries when they do their operations. That's my point. However, I can predict that I cannot convince you. You can't convince me, either. However, the difference between our two theories is that my theorem is not only based on Professor Wouters. It is based on three judgments of the International Court of Justice. That is the body that can make a binding decision on interpretations of international law, which must even be respected by Ban Ki-moon. Or else you don't want to believe in an international rule of law anymore? I still believe in that. I continue to believe that it is very useful and good for peace and stability in the world, if everyone, large and small countries, abides by international law. You obviously have a different opinion, and I know I can't convince you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u87	Mr President, I would like to respond briefly to what Mr Dallemagne has just said about the letter from the government that our ambassador to the United Nations delivered to the Secretary-General and the President of the Security Council. In that letter it is quite clear, I quote: "ISIL has operated a certain part of Syrian territory over which the government of the Arab Republic of Syria doesn't, at this time, excercise effective control. In light of this exceptional situation, states which have been subject to armed attack by ISIL, originating in this part Syrian territory, are there justified under article 51 of the UN Charter to take necessary measures of self-defence." I believe that, Mr Dallemagne and Mr Van der Maelen, that is a very clear justification why we are also calling for Article 51 of the Charter for the mission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u88	Mr van der Maelen, you just mentioned the differences between us. I notice another difference. The big difference is that we accept our responsibilities and fight IS by the majority. We're trying to liquidate that terrorist organization. Thanks to the efforts of the coalition, Iraq is almost completely liberated, except Mosul, and a third of Syria. Without coalition air operations, that was impossible. This was also confirmed by the delegation of the peshmerga, which we received. You can read that in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u89	Mr President, I shall perhaps insult my fellow Members by saying that I will be the smartest. Either way, we won't convince each other. Our theories are well known. I would like to move on to my second point, because I do not want to prolong the sitting unnecessarily. For my second point, I'm making a bridge. I'm reading a passage from a report from the International Crisis Group. Everyone agrees that this organisation is highly appreciated for its opinions and opinions. I quote: "The escalation of air strikes against IS can have an emotional or psychological benefit for Western countries. It may be good for domestic politics, but as long as there is no coherent strategy to address the reality of the Syrian conflict as a whole, it is a tactical move with little positive potential." That brings me to the question of the usefulness of bombing ISIS. Ladies and gentlemen, this morning we had a meeting with the International Red Cross on Afghanistan. The members of the Committee on External Relations were all invited, but unfortunately no one came. In 2001, the West started bombing Al Qaeda in Afghanistan with an international coalition. We have set up an army that is two to three times greater than the power that is now active in Syria. At some point there were 150,000 Western troops on the ground. The representative of the International Red Cross said this morning that the Taliban are stronger than ever 15 years after the launch of the military operation. The regime has only Kabul and the provincial capitals in its power. For the rest, the site is dominated by the Taliban. I would like to say that bombing may be part of a solution, but the solution is not at all. We would make much better work of a policy aimed at driving a wedge between IS and the Sunni population living in the areas currently occupied by IS. Colleagues, I'm going to go to Fallujah. Fallujah has been liberated by the Iraqi army. There are 85 000 refugees. Experts in the region are very concerned about the way in which the regular Iraqi army and Shiite militias have liberated Fallujah have acted. They agree that the way it happened, namely a combination of aerial bombardments and troops on the ground, has increased the support of IS. If our country is looking for a useful contribution, then a Belgian intervention in this direction would be more useful, and also in accordance with international law, as a majority of legal scholars think. There are countries that do that, Scandinavian countries for example, but also the Netherlands. They have a policy that aims to take immediate care of the people leaving these areas and to ensure that in the areas liberated from IS, a local government is set up that can guarantee health care and education. I note that these matters are completely lacking in your resolution. The message is only confessed with words. They were copied and stuck out of the resolution on Libya and other resolutions. Colleagues, that's not gonna happen. We should have included tough demands in the resolution. That didn't happen. To avoid attacks in the West, that solution is ten times more useful than participating in bombing. I note, however, that this majority does not want it. The resolution is therefore contrary to international law and the approach to invade a country without a framework for a political solution is wrong, as was also proven in Libya. The text of this resolution states that Parliament is calling for work to be carried out and for a political solution to be found. Well, I am sorry, but we also received that promise once in relation to Iraq. Of the then government and its Minister for Foreign Affairs, the same as in the present government, I saw little or no effort to address that cautious question in the previous resolutions. I regret that the majority did not accept our amendments in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u90	Mr Van der Maelen, I would like to ask you to turn off that record. In our resolution, we clearly advocate a 3D approach. All my fellow Members who intervened have underlined this. I would like to say the following about the use of the bombings. Two weeks ago, you were present on the Committee on Terrorism. We had the European Union's Counter-Terrorism Coordinator in that committee, our fellow countryman Gilles de Kerckhove. You remember his words, don't you? It is thanks to the bombing that the oil revenues of IS have been wiped out. No one in this hemisphere claims that the place can be cleaned up by bombing alone. In the meantime, with the examples of Libya and Iraq in mind, we all know that only military intervention will not suffice. This government is committed to taking action in other areas as well. I would like to make it quite clear that you must think carefully about the findings of Gilles de Kerckhove.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u91	Mr Yüksel, it is a bit annoying and I do not personally fish you, but there was another possibility, much earlier, of stopping oil sales from IS areas, without bombing, namely if the Turkish Government had controlled the border areas and stopped the groups in Turkey, whose members were known and whose activities were known. But they didn't want to stop. This would have been a much more efficient and far less deadly way of tackling this problem of Caliphate revenues that we want to wipe out. This was a much better way that could have been applied much faster.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u92	Mr Van der Maelen, that statement was made internationally. You should also address this criticism to the countries where such matters and practices take place. I feel absolutely uncomfortable. I think it's a little low that you're trying to reverse my point about Gilles de Kerchove by insinuating something. I am active here in this House. Period.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u93	Mr President, if I may, I will put a brief question to Mr van der Maelen. Mr Van der Maelen, I have been to Syria and to the Syrian Parliament, where I have spoken with Syrian elected representatives. I think Syria is still a democracy. Among other things, there are convinced communists in that Parliament, who were elected there. Would you like to negotiate with these people? The problem in the Syrian story is, of course, that one does not want to recognise the official regime. We have a problem with the President, but I do not think we should have a problem with Parliament. Are you, as a democrat, as a socialist, prepared to enter into direct negotiations with the people who represent Syria in Damascus? These are Sunnis, Shiites, but also communists, atheists and Christians. Are you willing to speak to those people?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u94	Mr Penris, you were not present on the committee. I think we will have another discussion later on about Mr Dallemagne's amendment, with which he is trying, and rightly so, to give him full support in this regard, and to clarify the responsibility of the Bashar al-Assad regime with regard to the current very difficult situation in Syria. I was in favour. I supported that amendment. It is the majority of my fellow Members who did not wish to do so. My brief answer to your question is no.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u95	May I ask why?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u96	Of 22 million Syrians, two thirds are no longer able to stay in their own home. There are 7 or 8 million Syrians internally displaced and 5 to 6 million Syrians have fled their country. All this only because of the fact that in 2011 a number of civil organisations had asked for a little more democratic space for what are in our political and human rights. The regime has responded in a way that, in my view, has been discredited forever.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u97	I have two brief observations. Firstly, I note that the sp.a group does not opt for the 3D approach but for the 2D approach. They do not believe in Defence, while experts in and outside Belgium say that the 3D approach works efficiently. You're going for the 2D approach. That's noted. As far as Mr Dallemagne's amendment is concerned, I repeat what I said in committee. This is not a resolution on Syria, but a resolution on the approach of IS in Syria. If we list all the causes in a resolution, we will make it a monstrosity. Mr van der Maelen, I have invited you to make a resolution on Syria, to put the whole of history in a resolution. Work on it. We may support that, but this is not a resolution on Syria. This is a resolution on the deployment of our troops to fight IS in Syria. That's a big difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying that environmentalists are attentive to the possibility that one day section 167 of the Constitution will be amended, so that when the government decides to send F-16s or their successors, this debate takes place before the planes reach their destination to bomb. That is respect for democracy! The environmentalists will fight for this article to be open for revision at the time this House is dissolved. We will be enthusiastic voters for this constitutional amendment. We have talked at length about the legal justification given by the majority, in particular by you, Mrs Grosemans, who is the main author of this resolution, for this entry into war. I will not go back to the excellent arguments put forward by Mr. Van der Maelen and Professor Wouters, whom he has mobilized a great deal in his argumentation. I will tell you about a white card, Mr Dallemagne, Mrs Grosemans, Mr Miller, Mr Yüksel, which has just been published on the website of the newspaper Le Soir. It is co-signed by 176 renowned and eminent professors of international law from ULB, KUL, Oxford, Cambridge, MIT and elsewhere. Here's the list. I'll let you know later, as well as the content of the carte blanche. (Benoit Hellings deploys in front of him a long list of several meters). These 176 professors – from all over the world – dispute the legal validity of this entry into war. Professors of international law, Mr. Delperee! The White Paper is entitled "Concerning an abusive invocation of self-defence in the face of terrorism". They are very clearly challenging the mobilisation of UN Resolution 22/49, which is not a blank-seat to intervene in Syria, as well as that of Article 51 of the UN Charter for that same purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u99	I'm not talking about the Charter. You were talking about "legal validity." I wanted to know what the law you were invoking was.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u100	Yes, it is. International law, Mr. Delperee. Thank you for your legal formalism. It's all to your honor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u101	In any case, I have not yet read the Constitution of the United Kingdom. Neither do you, I suppose...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u102	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u103	...because she doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u104	Therefore, I am telling you that, from the point of view of international law, 176 renowned professors contest the legal validity of this entry into war. I do not, of course, deny that the situation in Syria is particularly complex. I'll come back to that when I get to the bottom of the case. There is the regime of Bashar al-Assad, there is the free Syrian army, there is the Nusrah Front, there is Daesh. But by undertaking a military mission in the name of defending the democratic ideal – defending minorities is defending the democratic ideal – it is a matter of respecting international law and the principal institution that guarantees it, namely the United Nations. And according to these university professors, international law is not respected. Why should international law be respected? Not only because it must be respected, but because there is also a political issue. In front of us, the enemy that all democrats want to fight, Daesh, holds a speech, a mobilising narrative for many Sunnis in the Middle East and North Africa and for many young people in our neighbourhoods in Brussels. This discourse of the victimization of Muslims and Sunnis is reinforced by this legal lie. It recalls Colin Powell's 2003 lie about intervention in Iraq and it is this mobilization, the fact that there is a feeling of double standards against Muslims, which increases the feeling of victimization of Muslims and creates this political strength of Daesh. By fighting in this way, we politically strengthen the filthy beast that is Daesh and that ecologists want to see disappear. I would like to stress the issue of the symbiosis between Daesh and the regime of Bashar al-Assad. If, today, Daesh grows and beautifies in Syria, it is because of the bloody regime of Bashar al-Assad. I recall that most of the refugees who arrive today through the Balkans or the Mediterranean are fleeing the abuses, the bombings of the Bashar al-Assad regime. Daesh doesn't have an air force. Bashar al-Assad has one, today reinforced by his Russian ally, which bombards not Daesh but the main democratic opponents of Bashar al-Assad in Syria. Today, Daesh's forces on the military ground in Iraq and Syria are falling. Cities and territories are being taken over, and that is indisputable, but it does not mean that it is the most ideal way to combat radical Islamism in the long term. I recall, however, that Fallujah, which has just been captured, according to coalition forces, has already been the subject of three wars. Fallujah is a Sunni bastion that has already been resumed three times since the 2003 American invasion. There is nothing to say that today ISIS militants are in this city and are dormant cells that can return at any time, hence the interest, I shall return, of an Iraqi army like Sunnis, Shiites, Christians and other minorities in Iraq. Another important element, and it is the Orlando bombing that guides my thinking, Omar Mateen never went to Syria. Omar Mateen never went to Iraq. He killed 49 people in cold blood in a homosexual box in the United States and yet he has no direct connection to a principal in Iraq or Syria. What I mean is that Daesh's attraction force for terrorists, wherever they are in the world, is based on a sense of victimization and not on military or other force in Syria and Iraq. It's the Orlando bombing that tells us. Unfortunately, Daesh's main force is not military, it is political. When one fights Daesh only with arms, not only does one not fight his political force, but paradoxically, it is strengthened. Today, lone wolves, like Omar Mateen, claim to be Al-Baghdadi, the leader of Daesh, while ever Omar Mateen had contact with anyone in the Daesh chain of command. I have a question to the parties of the majority. How are you going to take over Raqqah? Behind this question is the strategic difficulty facing the coalition and therefore Belgium. Today, in Kurdish areas, it is "easy" or easier to send bombs and to see the ground bombed by Kurdish ground forces recovered. It's easy in Kurdish areas. When you are in a Shia area and the coalition bombards a Shia area, Shia can then easily recapture the Shia soil bombed by the coalition. But when you're in a Sunni area, which is the case with Raqqah and Fallujah, and you're bombing a Sunni area, but you don't have a Sunni force on the ground, legitimate in the eyes of the Sunni population on the spot (millions of people) and you don't have a military force that can secure these areas, help people, organize life on the spot, then you miss your goal. And you clearly put the plow before the ox! By bombing the Sunni areas, by never having yet planned the Sunni land force capable of resuming this area, you put the plow before the oxen first and, second, you throw the Sunni bombed into the arms of Daesh, our enemy. How are you going to take over Raqqah? There is another element on which we have not stressed much: that of economic cooperation. There's a new element. We know that Lafarge, a large cement company, originally French, but worldwide today, including Albert Frère, who is not just any Belgian investor, now owns 10%. The Jalabiya cement plant, located in Syria, was operational in 2013, and has indirectly or directly collaborated with Daesh. Today, Belgian shareholders benefit from the economic activity of large industrial groups in Syria and Iraq and collaborate with Daesh. We, Belgian and federal legislators, must ensure that this is no longer possible and that the Islamic State stops enriching itself with the economic activities of companies whose Belgians are either the leaders or the shareholders. I would like to deal with an issue that has not been raised by other colleagues here. This is the justified, tactically interesting, politically effective presence of the 30 to 40 Belgian soldiers, who are currently stationed in Baghdad, and who form the Iraqi army. The Greens are behind this mission, because the challenge is to be able to create an Iraqi army in the image of its population, thus consisting mainly of Sunnis, a little less Shiites, Christians, Yezedis or others. When Belgium takes part in military training missions in Baghdad today, it is a way of giving the Iraqi army the means to be able to regain the ground, freed from Daesh. And back there, you'll have the ecologists. This is effective. We'd still have to train Shiites. The minister doesn't want to tell me who we are, but it's interesting to go in that direction. One thing that has been put forward by colleagues and which we have noted in the discussions in committee is that this resolution speaks of Syria without ever mentioning the words "el-Assad" and "sunni". We tried to correct what we thought was a mistake with Mr Dallemagne's amendment, which unfortunately was not accepted. But it wasn't a mistake, it was a misjudgement. Colleagues of the majority, you have not understood that the problem of Daesh is a Sunni problem. It is the victimization of Sunnis by Bashar al-Assad that makes Daesh so important politically. You don't even mention the word "sunni" once in your resolution. So you don't touch the heart of the problem. Your solution for Syria and Iraq is peripheral and does not go to the root of the problem. We would have voted for a resolution, including with military dimensions and bombardments if they were intended, for example, to secure humanitarian corridors allowing the arrival of Sunni or Shiite refugees to secure camps. It would have involved countering Bashar al-Assad, which we do not even do. This would also have involved creating a no-fly zone so that the Syrian army would stop bombing Sunni areas. We would have agreed to participate in the security of the refugee evacuation routes and to prevent Bashar al-Assad's army from slaughtering its population with the help of the Russians. Yesterday and the day before yesterday, we learned that not only were the Belgians not going to fight Bashar al-Assad – we had understood it for a long time – but that in addition, Major General Vansina, in charge of the mission to Syria and Iraq, declared, at the time when the F-16s took off from Kleine-Brogel, that there was a convention between Russia and the coalition partners. Yesterday, the Minister of Defence declared that this convention was in fact a memorandum of understanding. I then asked to have access to this agreement. What he said: "No, in fact, I don't have access to it, it's the coalition that has it, but, in fact, it's contacts." And when I asked what the nature of these contacts was, the minister said, "We're calling." This means that we are not fighting Bashar al-Assad, so we are not fighting the cause of the emergence of Daesh, so we are not fighting the cause of the massive influx of refugees into our Europe. We are collaborating with him, since Russia is the main support of Bashar al-Assad, and we either sign conventions or memorandums of understanding, or we make calls and have contacts. My point of view is not moral. He's political. How do you want to tell a Sunni in North Africa and the Middle East today, how do you mean to our young people drunk with horrible images of bombings of the Russian army and the Syrian army via social networks (which Daesh knows very well), what in fact, we want to save them by joining with their worst enemy? But they won't understand that! So you don't touch the cause of the problem. I'm sorry, but this resolution misses its target. It does not fight the enemy of democracy, the enemy of the future of Arab populations all over the world. That is why, you understand, we will vote against this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u105	Mr President, out of politeness, I will try to say it in French. Colleagues, I am a former student of Jesuit Fathers. They taught me that when you ask a question, you always have to answer another question. You have asked us to tell you how we will free Raqqa. Dear colleague, how do you think you will release Raqqa?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u106	I will answer in a Jewish way, as you suggest: certainly not by supporting your friend, the dictator Bashar al-Assad.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u107	I will try to bounce back on the various interventions that have taken place. Much has been said about international law. I must confess that before I was a Member of Parliament, I had another life and often intervened in terrible human conflicts and tragedies. Each time, I was fascinated by the ability of the international community to look away from atrocious crimes that have sometimes been committed for months or even years. I am thinking here of Bosnia, Rwanda, Somalia, a series of countries where absolutely appalling crimes have been committed. I was sometimes confronted daily with people crushed by genocides, dictatorships, a whole series of absolutely heinous crimes. In my opinion, we are facing the same scenario in Syria. We thought we would learn from Libya, after wondering what we were doing there and coming to the conclusion that we would have done better not to intervene. As far as I am concerned, I think it would have been better to intervene differently. Indeed, a scenario was missing for the next day. However, when we decided to save the people of Benghazi under the control of the Libyan dictator, we did well. Europe was correct in the face of this new moral crime that was taking place at its doorstep. But again, nothing had been planned for the next day. We didn't develop a script. A political strategy had not been developed. We didn't really have a project. There was no provision for support in the face of a series of political forces in place. In Syria, crimes have been allowed for years to be committed by Bashar al-Assad. We've turned our eyes away. Those who today pleaded for non-intervention had the same discourse at the time. And as far as I'm concerned, I was already pleading for the arrest of this dictator's arm, Bashar al-Assad, and I was going to protest in front of the Syrian embassy so that we could intervene and support the democratic forces and forces for freedom that were expressed at the time. The bloodbath and democrats were allowed to be crushed and gradually replaced by the very creature of Bashar al-Assad, the Islamic State. We let this totally hallucinating scenario be done and everything we thought we could avoid – bloodbath, regional deflagration, international destabilization, terrorism, today's attacks – has come back to power ten. The lesson to be learned today is that we cannot unpunishedly turn our eyes away from atrocious crimes like those committed in Syria. We cannot speak of international law in order to avoid taking on our responsibilities. As I have already said, we must not forget that this famous international law, to which I hold great interest, is first and foremost the right of five nuclear Powers to rain and weather in terms of international security. Is that right that the progressives want? Is that the right they talk about all the time? That of Russia and China? Is that really the right we want to follow? Are these the international relations we want to have for tomorrow? I am trying to advance this international law, indeed! And I regularly mention this soft law of humanitarian organizations because they were confronted with these atrocious crimes when they could only bring medicines, dressings, food, and that they saw the states bringing dressings, medicines and food where they should have intervened otherwise. To that end, the responsibility to protect has been established.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u108	My dear colleague, you are talking about atrocious crimes committed by the President's regime. What crimes are you talking about and what is your evidence?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u109	This question deserves no answer so overwhelming and obvious is the evidence. I saw, personally, the MIG-21s bombard populations, I saw the rockets fall on the outskirts of Damascus. I saw the barrels of powder burst in the middle of the population. You don't want to see them, I saw them. I went to see them. I know the horrific crimes he committed and I met all the people who suffered them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u110	Give proof!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u111	I got them! We let that happen! That's what we let do!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u112	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u113	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u114	Mr Penris, calm down! Go on, Mr. Dallemagne!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u115	Compared to the Islamic State, which, unfortunately, is a global threat today and which was created by this horrific dictatorship of Bashar al-Assad in particular, but also by our inability to mobilize, I actually think that only three strategic scenarios are possible. The first scenario is to leave him there quietly thinking that he will stop trying to prosper, stop terrorizing his own population and the whole world. It's obviously quite naive. I'm not joining this naivety. Indeed, the Islamic State is now a global threat and must be eradicated, including by force and militarily. And it's not cheerfulness of heart. We know that, but we have to do it. The second scenario is to let Bashar al-Assad and the Russians do it with their methods – we know them – and also with the political gain they will have afterwards. Indeed, how can we plead for the eviction of Bashar al-Assad on the day he regained Raqqah as he is trying to do today? Then should we let the Russians do it? It's not my script either. Therefore, there is only one third scenario, it is indeed to be able to mobilize militarily and politically.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u116	Mr President, I hear this sentimentalist plea in Mr Dallemagne's head.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u117	It's not sentimentalism. Hundreds of thousands of people are being crushed today!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u118	Indeed!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u119	Is this your sentimentalism, Mr. Hellings? I'll take note of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u120	You're a politician!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u121	So what?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u122	You are voting for a political resolution!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u123	So what? Should I not take into account the human balance?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u124	I have just told you that, in the context of the resolution just adopted and the ongoing military action in Syria, memorandums of understanding are signed with Russia. They're busy doing it. What you are going to support earlier is exactly the opposite of what you just said. This mission is carried out hand in hand with Russia and Bashar al-Assad.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u125	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You're pretending to think it's totally incongruous to talk to the Russians to avoid air accidents and mutual bombing. You are pretending to believe that we are not discussing the future of Ukraine and Crimea with Russia, even though Russia poses problems on the eastern front. Stop that simplism! It is not because Russia is a real threat to the future of Syria that we cannot dialogue. We must be able to speak to our worst enemies in order to avoid military problems and problems in the Syrian sky. Mr Hellings, I would like to come back to another point. You always talk about Sunnis, as if the different peoples of Syria were sharing territories. That's totally wrong! I went there and in every region there were Sunnis, Alawites, Christians, Yezidis, Druzes, Kurds. Your vision of Syria's future is dangerous because it is a vision of the separation of the different peoples of Syria. You keep saying that you need territory for the Sunnis. You were talking about Raqqah. Did you know that in Raqqah there were Alawites, Christians, Yezidis, Kurds? You said it was a Sunni area. That's totally wrong! It was a multi-ethnic area with all sorts of peoples living there!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u126	Mr Dallemagne, as in committee, claims that I would have said what I have never said, namely that there was a need for territory for the Sunnis. There are areas where Sunnis and Shiites are the majority or not. If you want to bomb an area mostly composed of Sunnis and the army on the ground is mostly composed of Shiites, you have a problem. I am not saying that Syria or Iraq should be divided according to people's religious affiliations. I never said that. You're the one who's simplistic. I said that you will solve the political problem of Iraq and Syria when the Sunnis finally have a place in the Iraqi state and in the Syrian state, when they are given the same perspectives as they are given to the Alawites, Shiites, Sunnis, Yezidis, Christians and Druze. Syria or Iraq should not be divided according to religion. It is just necessary that there should be the possibility, as in any democratic State, of having a life, a perspective, of being able to live according to one's convictions, according to one's traditions, according to one's history.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u127	Get back together! I think you better get out of this mono-ethnic speech you keep holding. Syria's future is infinitely more subtle and complex about the different peoples who must be able to coexist and talk to each other, live together. Avoid opposing each other! My group will support this resolution, regretting the fact that we are voting for it when the F-16s are already at work. Politically and democratically, this does not seem to me to be a good signal. I also regret that some of the major amendments I proposed have not been adopted. In particular, I come back with an amendment on Bashar al-Assad. I think that politically, it is very important to distinguish between our interventions and those of Bashar al-Assad. We know the frustration of some who go out there to fight Bashar al-Assad and who believe that there is a kind of unsaid, or perhaps complicity, that are fantasies about the fact that we have not specified that Bashar al-Assad could never be a partner in defeating the Islamic State. I think it would have been important to be able to say that, particularly in the context of Article 51 of the United Nations. Indeed, Bashar al-Assad cannot be an alternative to our intervention. The other thing that I thought was important, I said, and Mr M. Van der Maelen has repeated this: it is extremely important that we have a military strategy, a political strategy, war goals and political objectives that are extremely precise and clear. Unfortunately, this did not appear sufficiently in this resolution. This is not sufficiently clear in the efforts of the international community. I believe that Belgium needs to take more initiatives in this area. That seems essential to me. Political scenarios are emerging. We must be able to push them, to clarify them and to be part of what will happen the next day because I hope that there will be a day after this pseudo-Islamic terrorist State that threatens us all and terrorizes us all.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u128	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, perhaps a few moments of repetition or a stir-up of history. On May 13th, the government decided to have our F-16s bombed in Syria. On Monday morning, 6 F-16 p.m. left for Jordan. Today, this resolution by the majority is for a vote. Let's face it, it doesn't really matter anymore or it doesn't matter anymore. Whether we vote against or in favour, our planes are almost literally in the air. This majority has actually embarrassed itself. They themselves limit their responsibilities as Members of Parliament to the chewing of what the Minister and the Council of Ministers have presented to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u129	Mr Top, you're talking about the F-16s that are already hanging in the air. This is really ridiculous. The real actions don't start till Friday. It was agreed on July 1st. They are already present because of the handover and the takeover of the Dutch. That's for their safety. They are now being informed and are getting an update on the current situation. They get information about intelligence and all procedures, where they have to take off, where they have to refuel and so on, so that they can fly safely in the airspace. This way they can integrate into the joint operation. So what you're saying is bullshit. It has always been agreed that they will not be active until July 1st. That's right. Of course, they are earlier on the scene, just to be aware of the state of play, for their safety. Secondly, the resolution will not be too late. I think the operation there would take a year anyway. Isn't that right? She'll never be late. The government has decided to participate in the international operation, only the military part. We are making six requests to the government, four of which are aimed at humanitarian, financial, diplomatic, political and development aid. That gives us as controlling power enough leverage to appeal to the federal government after that. So that resolution will never be late, Mr Top, absolutely not.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u130	Mr President, Mrs Grosemans, I do not think you have listened carefully. I've given you the history of the last two months. The decision has already been taken by the Council of Ministers for the dispatch of the F 16/1993s to Syria. I also want to remind you of the next promise. As chairman of the committee, you promised to hold the debate in the Chamber first. You promised and you added: "It is then, under the law as it stands today in the Constitution, for the government to decide." That was your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u131	Mr Top, it is also up to the government to decide. It has decision-making power, as stated in the Constitution. The debate has indeed taken place. There has never been so much time spent on a mission, a mission that is not really a new mission at all, but simply an extension of a mission. We first had a debate on 13 May with Brett McGurk, the American specialist, who fully informed us of how to combat IS in Syria. We then had a second debate, a hearing with the Prime Minister and the two ministers. Then we had two more extensive committee meetings to discuss that resolution. Several amendments have been tabled, so there was certainly a guarantee of participation. Those amendments have also been thoroughly examined, and they have not just ended up in the garbage can. We approved what we were able to find ourselves in. In addition, you were informed in detail in the Defence Committee, the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Foreign Missions Follow-up Committee. Democracy is therefore certainly guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u132	Mrs Grosemans, I will simply tell you that an American specialist does not necessarily embody the truth. Everything that shines is not gold.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u133	I can only conclude that Mrs Grosemans is turning the facts around, that the debate comes after the decision. The debate in the Chamber, to which all Members were entitled, comes after the government's decision. You take that personally, but you made the promise that we could debate it before the decision and that the government would not make a decision until afterwards. I also find it difficult to understand this proposal. I refer to the reports of the last few days and to things we knew before. The chance that our Belgian F-16s would effectively drop bombs over Syria is relatively small due to the lack of the right communication equipment. Apparently, our planes are not equipped with the right satellite communication technology the Americans use to attack IS settings in Syria.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u134	Mr Top, this is an irrelevant detail that has been greatly piled up in the press and to which the Minister replied in detail in committee yesterday. Our F-16s are not reachable in 3% of the area in Syria, but for that we have partners, so there is no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u135	Mrs Grosemans, it is a pity that you cannot bring anything out of the closed committee on the follow-up of foreign shipments. We will monitor in that committee how much the F-16s can intervene. Then we can also ask how many of our Dutch colleagues have done this in Syria over the past year. Then we can put those figures next to each other and perhaps ask the question, if we already know that our F-16s in Syria actually have nothing to do, or if we don't better focus on other things. Then perhaps we can be more effective and provide humanitarian aid in the areas where it is needed, for example by using our C-130s and delivering food packages. At least people would have something to do with that. Finally, I regret that this resolution does not establish any link between the interventions we make with our F-16s and our own internal security.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u136	Mr President, it will no longer be a surprise for anyone to know that the PTB Group will not support this resolution. On the one hand, there are some questions about the democratic aspect. We are not going to resume this controversy. Our first intervention in this Parliament concerned bombings in Iraq and our first vote was against these bombings in Iraq. However, when I intervened, the F-16 aircraft were already taking off to Iraq. We could ask ourselves what is the purpose of our debate in Parliament? In this case, the planes are already gone. As far as the caricature of Parliament is concerned, we can hardly do better. We could still have had a debate in advance. We have learned, and through the committee, and by the press, that the United States was even aware of it before us. That's democracy... We are discussing with the United States of America, who come to explain how the world works, with supporting maps. They must think that in Belgium we are not very clever. So the guy came with a map to explain how the world works, how to bomb. It's true that Americans know the world well. Since the Second World War, a country has undertaken regular bombings around the world. This will not contribute to the creation of a world of peace as we wanted. The fact that we are advised by the Americans, pushed to intervene in relation to the Americans, for a country that is itself a major player in the region and the disaster that is present, makes us think. Please have a little critical sense anyway! It is clear to everyone in the House that without the bombings in the United States in 2003, without the decision to completely shave this country, the situation would be quite different. As a reminder, this country has been razed from bottom to bottom. The reconstruction of the country was prohibited to Iraqi companies. It is American multinationals that have managed all of this country's reconstruction contracts. If there was an Iraqi worker who wanted to find work and rebuild his country, it was refused. Read this beautiful book by Naomi Klein! If the majority could make some critical sense of the impulses given by the United States of America, that would be a step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u137	Since we are talking about critical sense, I believe that it should apply to everyone. The critical sense is also valid when it comes to the annexation of Tibet to Communist China.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u138	This is an illustration of how to see the world in black and white! But let's go back to the Syrian question. I note that the record of our interventions in these countries is immensely negative. We intervened in Libya. What was it for? We've sown chaos in this country. I would like to remind you that many legal arguments, which have rightly been used against intervention in Syria, also apply to Libya. Earlier, the agreements reached after the Second World War had been reviewed and a certain balance had been achieved. I didn't sign them. These agreements aim to strike a balance in the world and state that each country does not have the individual choice to intervene in the internal affairs of another country. That is international law. It is to say that, if certain events in a country do not suit me, I have no right to intervene. At the end of the Second World War, the League of Nations was based on the principle that, by intervening in foreign countries, a world-wide deflagration was achieved. It was on this basis that the Charter of the United Nations was conceived. For 15 or 20 years, since this unipolar world is taking its place, some countries – often the same ones – believe that they still have the right to intervene. I have not yet seen India intervene regularly around the world. I have not yet seen African countries disembarking with military personnel in Europe or the United States. The same countries are still involved. Why? Because some are powerful and others are not. What is the world in which we live today?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u139	Mr President, I did not see a representative of the PTB in committee. I have therefore not been able to benefit from his science in the lengthy debates we have had during the examination of the motion for a resolution. I'd like to ask Mr. Hedebouw a question. I understand what he says about the various interventions, but does he not believe that the case of Daesh is specific? Since this organisation poses a threat to Europe and our country, as we saw on 22 March, does it not think that the will of the government and those who supported this motion for a resolution to annihilate a terrorist threat is nevertheless desirable?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u140	Mr Ducrame, thank you for your excellent speech. First of all as regards the presence in committee – it becomes a little sport here – I told you that we were going to do everything possible to be at least five Members in 2019, in order to attend all the committees. In the meantime, we mill, we turn in most commissions to be present as much as possible. I know that some colleagues would like to see us even more. We will do what we can in this direction. However, we still reserve the right to speak, either in plenary or in committee. We're together to take on the whole job right now. I assure you that we will find a solution for 2019. That's my first point. Then I can follow you. We'll discuss how to fight Daesh. I'm just saying that our own bombings in the region are causing the problem. That is the question. If we do not demonstrate an inclusive will to work with all the actors... I have never carried in my heart Mr. Bashar al-Assad, even if the ecologists try to prove it - at least the colleague who has just spoken. I have only said that the failure to intervene in the internal affairs of a country leads us to a world order so that it is not up to me to decide with Belgian bombs what is happening in Syria. This also applies to the situation in Africa, Asia or Latin America. When we see the disasters that we have caused in Africa or those that have been caused in the countries of the Near and Middle East by European colonization, I ask you to show a little humility. That is the most important issue we need to discuss today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u141	Mr Hedebouw, at no time have I mentioned your name in this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u142	You talked about the PTB.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u143	No, I didn't even mention the name of the PTB. Either you hear voices, or you need to justify yourself. What you obviously have to do, because it is true that the resolution you introduced with Mr. Van Hees under the title "For an effective and democratic fight against terrorism", also does not mention – and this is one of the few points in common between your resolutions and those of the majority – the name of Bashar al-Assad. In fact, if, once, when you quote one of its opponents who says that the Islamization of the conflict comes from foreign interventions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u144	It's not up to you to decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u145	I repeat, there is a symbiosis between the regime of Bashar al-Assad and Daesh.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u146	I heard Mr. Hedebouw and thank him for his answer. But, while military strikes allow us to reduce the threat of Daesh, for local people but also for Europe, if we follow you, we do nothing, we do not participate, with sixty countries, including some of the region, Arab countries... And we let Daesh prosper and its threat grow and of 22 March reproduce. If we're in your logic, I'm sorry, but we're letting it happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u147	Could we get back to the bottom of the case? I know that Mr Hedebouw is not often present in the Defence Committee, but I think we're here to talk about an intervention or not in Syria... if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u148	Thank you, Mr Pirlot!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u149	It is clear to us that action is needed and that solutions will be political in the region. But what is clear is that bombing, just as it was a disaster in Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya, will not be a solution. The question today is that political measures will have to be taken in the region. I am not the only one to say that, as experts from the United Nations also say. All the unilateral measures that we will take from the West will only strengthen there among the Sunni populations, in particular a polarization. On that, I join the Ecolo group. The solution is in-house political. It is not up to me to decide whether Bashar al-Assad should remain in power, it is up to the Syrian people to decide. It's up to him to fight. If foreign countries are going to start deciding what is going on in the internal affairs of other countries, we are going to a world war. That is exactly the heart of the Second World War agreements. We cannot rebuild a new world order with this right of humanitarian interference that is being exercised all over the world today. We can't go to that. We're moving towards global spread. That is worrying. We've had and we'll still have the debate on NATO. Today, wanting to defy, for example, Russia, is playing with fire. The global balance that dates back to the Second World War has been challenged since the fall of the Berlin Wall. We're going to a unipolar world where a few powers are deciding everything that's happening on this planet. If we do not maintain international law, if we do not maintain this right to intervene where we see fit, we are moving towards a danger of global deflagration. That's the current danger. With regard to solutions on the ground, we will not avoid a debate on the objective allies of the Islamic State. These allies of the Islamic State are also our allies. Let's talk about Saudi Arabia or even Turkey, which so-called diplomatically breaks up with the Islamic State while continuing to maintain a porous border. They're our allies and we're not going to tell them anything? We send a small fax, we say it's wrong, we're not happy, etc. They must be put under pressure today so that they can completely dry up Daesh! The solution on the spot will undoubtedly be political. We need all the countries in the region: Iran, Turkey, Saudi Arabia, the Syrian regime. We don't have a choice. It is obvious that if the Syrian regime had no support from the population, it would have already collapsed overnight. Whether we like it or not, a large part of the Syrian population continues to support the regime, and it is not up to me to decide in its place. There is a need for an international coalition that now allows, in all the warring forces, to dry up Daesh and defeat international terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u150	I have explained that we are going to abstain for various reasons, but the democrat I am cannot accept, I am sorry, that we are coming to justify 280,000 deaths, saying that it is not up to us to take care of Bashar al-Assad who is still at the origin of this conflict. I find this scandalous! Scandalous!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u151	Bashar al-Assad is certainly not a solution in the region. It is the same logic that brought us into Libya. At least Georges Dallemagne's vision is very consistent. He said that with this logic of significant danger for the people of Libya, we intervene in Libya. It is this right of self-defence or humanitarian interference that is being discussed today. Wherever there is a problem internal to countries, we reserve the right to intervene. I advocate for a much more multipolar international community. We will have to deal with many other emerging forces or not, and it will be the world of tomorrow. Otherwise, the opposite consequence is to have a global deflagration in a fight between the different blocs. I do not want to take part in this fight between different blocs that will lead us to a third world war, as we knew it in 1940-1945.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u152	Hedebouw acted as if the international coalition were going to fight Bashar al-Assad. No! That is what I have just explained at length in the gallery. The international coalition will intervene in Syria but not against Bashar al-Assad. She's going to fight somewhere else. You are right to say that the solution is political. That's right. She's not military. The military can eventually come in support, for example, as I said earlier, by guaranteeing humanitarian corridors for refugees or a no-fly zone to ensure that the Bashar al-Assad regime stops bombing and that it is threatened by aircraft that could shoot down its planes that bombard with barrels. It's not with bombs, it's with barrels. That's amazing! With chemical weapons. No, Mr. Hedebouw, the solution you are advocating, namely the maintenance of Bashar al-Assad, is not going to make it possible to fight Daesh on a long-term basis. But you say that we must not change the regime in Syria.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u153	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u154	But Belgian bombs don't hit Bashar al-Assad! I have just told you that there is a convention between the Russians and Syria and, therefore, the coalition, not to bomb each other. So you're missing your target!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u155	Mr Hellings, we cannot repeat the same argument forever. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u156	• 31 – Georges Dallemagne (1883/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u157	• 33 Georges Dallemagne (1883/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u158	• 22 – Alain Top cs (1883/2)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u159	Request/Demande 1/1(n) • 34 – Georges Dallemagne (1883/5) Request/Point 2 • 25 – Alain Top cs (1883/2) Request/Point 3/1(n) • 26 – Alain Top cs (1883/2) Request/Point 3/2(n) • 27 – Alain Top cs (1883/2) Request/Point 3/3(n) • 28 – Alain Top cs (1883/2) Request/Point 5/1(n) • 29 – Alain Top cs (1883/2) Request/Point 6/1(n) • 30 – Alain Top cs (1883/2) ******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u160	The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin the debate on the programme law, I would like to make a few comments, for which I would also like to draw the government's explicit attention. First of all, if we are able to examine the programme law in this day and in time, it is thanks to the agreement reached in the Conference of Presidents, with the benevolence of the opposition gathered. According to the letter of the Rules of Procedure, some objections could be raised. The Conference of Presidents, through its agreement, has waived those objections. I would like to thank the opposition groups for that. I would add that this has not created a precedent and that the decision does not affect the right to improve reports. In more general terms, I will also ask the government to remain expressly in the permanent dialogue with Parliament. This Chamber must, while respecting the roles and missions of each, be able to provide quality work. Ladies and gentlemen, the words I have just said will also be reflected in the letter I will send to all the ministers today. I just wanted to say that in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u162	Mr President, as representative democracy is increasingly criticized and populists on all sides have chosen parliamentarians as targets of their attacks, it seems to me important that our work as parliamentarians of both the majority and the opposition be all the more respected. Very often, as an opposition, we have criticized the government's willingness, through urgency, to significantly reduce the debate, particularly at the end of the session. In either commission there is a clear lack of consideration for the work done by groups that do not support the government. There was even a minister this week who allowed himself to leave the professional sphere to throw his morgue on the privacy of a member of Parliament. [[Applause]] That is why, Mr President, I would like to thank you for your comments. As opposition groups, we have weapons to block parliamentary processes. We again showed you yesterday that this is not the way we want to work. I hope that your strong message will be heard and that we can better support parliamentary democracy in the weeks and months to come. It's, in any case, my dearest wish. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u163	Mr President, I will be very brief, because the point has been made. I also wanted to thank you for your very clear words. I hope that the message has been retained by the government and that, not only for the rest of this session, but above all for the years that we still have to live with this government, it can take it into account. Mr. Borsus is here. He regularly participates in the work of the Conference of Presidents. We will not fail to remind him of the message that the President sent in the presence of his first Vice-President. I was able to see some applause on the benches of the majority. I am pleased that the message that you have brought to the government today, Mr President, goes beyond the mere question of respect for the opposition, but brings with it all the work of Parliament in quality work, as it should be, even if there are differences on the substance, as it should be in a democracy that we, for most of us, seek to defend. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u164	Mr President, I would like to point out that beyond whom a parliament can be divided between the opposition and the majority, there is a way to agree, to find a number of agreements so that the debate can be organised calmly and constructively. Beyond what could have happened in the Conference of Presidents, action has been taken by the government, which has withdrawn two projects in order to leave it to Parliament to take full and in-depth advantage of the analysis of the projects it submits to us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u165	Colleagues, the message has been passed on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u166	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 1232: Benoît Dispa - 1545: Laurette Onkelinx, Stéphane Crusnière, Ahmed Laaouej, Willy Demeyer, André Frédéric, Emir Kir, Éric Massin, Éric Thiébaut, Dirk Van der Maelen - 1654: Georges Gilkinet, Kristof Calvo, Meyrem Almaci, Jean-Marc Nollet, Wouter De Vriendt, Muriel Gerkens, Stefaan Van Hecke, Gilles Vanden Burre. I propose that a single discussion be held on this bill and that these three legislative proposals be devoted. I propose that you devote one discussion to this bill and to these three bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u167	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Deseyn and Mr Laaouej. They shall refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u168	Mr President, I am speaking on the programme law and the bill that we are tabling. Many colleagues in the majority have asked me to be short, so I will take a long time! It's for fun, ladies and gentlemen! The bill that we are putting forward is part of the desire to fight terrorism more effectively and, in particular, against its financing. Currently, when the Financial Information Processing Unit (FTIC) wants information from a bank, it must send a letter to the bank concerned. When it investigates more generally, it must send a multitude of letters. We propose to allow CTIF to address directly to the central contact point of the National Bank which centralizes all banking information. I believe that this proposal is in the right direction and I invite you to support it. Indeed, this proposal has already been put into practice in the programme law. The first point in the programme law concerns the problem of gambling and betting. It is a legal weakness raised by the Council of State, which recalls that the exemption from VAT on online gambling was motivated by the fact that the Regions already tax games and bets. There was double taxation. As long as double taxation is applied – in the event that you decide to reapply it – you expose yourself to a problem of encroachment of competence which, obviously, you minimize when we think that it is not necessary and that you would benefit from continuing the dialogue with the Regions. On the subject of the collaborative economy, in addition to the fact that my colleague Jean-Marc Delizée will speak to you in more detail, I would stress that the scheme you have put in place for the taxation of the income of people in this type of economy, in the sense that you define it, below the ceiling of EUR 5 000, will be subject to particularly complex taxation. We therefore doubt that it resists a review of the Constitutional Court. We agree with the interesting provisions on tax collection in order to improve its effectiveness, except that we are tabling an amendment concerning the exchange of information from abroad for which you are requesting a period of 24 months for further investigation and processing. We believe that this deadline should be doubled. For the rest, when there are indications of fraud, we think it is desirable to increase this period to 7 years rather than 5 years, and we will support this provision. With regard to transfer pricing, another important part of the programme law, you are implementing one of the elements of the famous BEPS, the process set up by the OECD, with the reporting country per country that will lead companies to declare their economic activities and revenues at the global level, which will allow for an overall vision. We welcome him, but we also regret that you are still not implementing the other BEPS recommendations. There is an invitation to the government to go as quickly as possible. On the recovery side, you suspend collection deadlines when there is an objection and appeal. You align them with what happens when there is cassation. We believe that this is in the right direction. Similarly, access to the central point of contact for the collection of registration and inheritance fees, which will now be a reality, is something to be welcomed. When I developed our bill, I said that we should welcome the fact that the government decided to use it to allow TIF to have direct access to the central point of contact near the National Bank. These are my comments, Mr. Chairman. There's something to drink and eat. Some things are positive, others are less positive. We are tabling amendments. The most important thing is to go against what you do by increasing excise duties (consumption tax). We are tabling an amendment with my colleague Vanvelthoven to remove the increase in VAT on electricity. We are also putting forward a very important amendment to provide for a system of sanctions for the designers or advisers of fraudulent tax schemes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u169	Mr President, we discussed the budget yesterday. I pointed out at the time that we made the excellent choice of saving the working, saving and enterprising people in terms of effort. You can see the implementation of this in the programme law. Efforts are required, among other things, from the online gambling sector. This is a particularly thriving sector, according to the reports of the past few days. Of course, it's not just about income. After a long push, Minister Geens has now also communicated that the regulations in this area will be tightened to protect the people. That is a very good thing and a very nice combination. It is also very good that a fundamental innovation is taking place: with the regulatory framework for the sharing economy, we give an emerging sector that was a bit in a grey zone a legal perspective and an opportunity to grow fully and to make people earn something or become active in a good way. Inciting people to work is a very good thing. We must seize such opportunities. Hopefully some people can grow and make it a full-fledged independent business. The regulation is therefore also very strict, because we want to keep the sharing economy within certain limits in the hope that it will become a fully independent activity. Last but not least, the majority of the draft law that can't be stressed enough is a solid package on the fight against fraud. That's 45 out of 50 pages. We were all very indignant after the coverage of the Panama Papers, the huge leak about people hiding their income or capital from the tax authorities behind screen companies in Panama. We all share that indignation. We can never accept such a thing. It is therefore quite right that measures should be taken to tackle tax fraud. Whoever thought the government was saving the fraudsters is clearly wrong again. That's what the bill says.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u170	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, I too would like to go back to the provisions of this government with regard to the collaborative economy. My group and I are very committed to this. I have, moreover, been able to address it here on several occasions. It is no longer disputed by anyone that an increasing number of citizens, perhaps even among the members of this assembly, interact directly via online platforms in order to benefit from various services or to make purchases. However, this new type of economy and the activities it brings presents a challenge for public authorities. Like any innovative phenomenon, it needs to be understood and brought into the legal framework, but without compromising its sustainability and growth potential in terms of both wealth and employment creation and responses to citizens' needs. As well as being pragmatic and often cheaper for citizens, the collaborative economy also allows everyone to become a self-entrepreneur. It is therefore necessary to continue to encourage this sector while imposing beacons. I would like to reiterate, on behalf of my group, our full support for the new framework put in place by the government, since it seems to us both necessary and balanced. It demonstrates the willingness to encourage micro-entrepreneurial spirit and collaborative consumption while imposing clear, legible and understandable limits to avoid unfair competition. Clearly, the crux of the problem lies in the risk of conflict between the players in this new economy and traditional sectors such as Horeca. Good competition must be maintained, but innovation must also be encouraged. We are therefore convinced that the fiscal framework provided by the government will be beneficial because it effectively balances the various elements I have just mentioned. In concrete terms, revenues not exceeding EUR 5 000 will be taxed at 10% as occasional income. Above this sum, a classic system of professional activity will apply with a higher taxation of income, identical to that of other self-employed persons. We believe that this progressivity in the tax field is entirely justified. It would be problematic and unfair, as I have had the opportunity to say in committee, to apply identical rules to very different situations and types of activity. This allows for a balance between the collaborative economy and the so-called classical economy. These are activities that are not comparable. I will go even further: in this they are not opposed but indeed complementary. I would also like to stress that the way in which the specific tax system is applied in this area is strict in relation to the regular economy, since these services can only be rendered to individuals, that platforms must be approved by the government, and that the customer must finally pay all the sums to which he is liable for the provision of services to or through an electronic platform. In addition, this system allows us not to kill the innovative sector of this economy in the egg but rather to allow its development and also to strengthen entrepreneurial vocations. It is essential for us, the Liberals, to encourage talent and to infuse the taste for enterprise and the pleasure of creating. I would like to stress here that this is a sector of the future. In a recent study, PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) estimates that there are now 9,000 startups in the collaborative consumer market worldwide and that this market is valued at $15 billion and is expected to reach $335 billion by 2025. In 2014, 70% of French Internet users, or 30 million people, had already bought or sold via these websites or platforms linking individuals. In our country, a similar trend is observed since it is estimated that 80% of households are connected and that e-commerce represents €8.2 billion of online spending in 2015, which represents an increase of more than 30% compared to 2014. This gives the measure of the potential of this sector. Finally, in comparison with the situation before the government's intervention, this new framework allows us to identify but also impose revenues that have so far been beyond control and taxation. To use the terms that have been used in several ways and on several occasions in committee, "it was time to get this activity out of the grey zone" and the government has been working on it. That is why I welcome, Mr President, Ministers, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the introduction of these new provisions, which are both positive for citizens, for entrepreneurs in the collaborative economy, but also for the self-employed, who are now protected from this unfair competition.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u171	Mr President, there are Ghent cartel conversations in progress. I know you'd like to interrupt that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u172	The chairman's getting nervous.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u173	Of course, Minister, I will not repeat the discussion from the committee and would like to raise the most important points. Indeed, an important part of the programme law, which was submitted to the Court, relates to tax fraud. You will have our support for that. Today we are having a special moment. I have looked at it again and I think it is the first time in two years that real anti-fraud measures are being put to the vote. We sincerely believe that we can make some improvements. You went over that in committee. I would like to repeat that today. After all, it must be our common ambition to eliminate tax and social fraud as much as possible. With regard to VAT on online gambling, we warned you about the Council of State's remark that there is a possible problem of jurisdiction. In reply to my question whether you had discussions with the regions, you replied that you have seen each other and explained the different positions, but that you have not reached a common position. Once again, as with other measures taken by the government, I fear that we are going to go to a situation where something which is meant well will eventually end. That's always a shame! I have also asked you how you will deal with this in the context of VAT. After all, international companies are often involved. Perhaps you could explain this a little more today. Sharing economy is a new form of economy that is emerging in our society and where people share business and perform services for each other. They sometimes do so to a greater or lesser degree professionally. In the latter case, limited revenues are involved. The initiative you are taking in this area and the ambitions you have to regulate this trend is excellent. Only, it has become a very complex arrangement. We fear that it has become so complex that those who share economic performance will not opt for this tax treatment. We will not be able to solve the problem we are trying to resolve in this way. For us, therefore, the scheme is too complex and somewhat a missed opportunity. The system of tax havens is a good point and certainly positive. We shall therefore support the point. We will receive a mass of information from abroad from the beginning of 2017. It is good that this is anticipated in the proposed legislative amendment. Only we believe that the 24-month attack period for the mass data we will receive is too limited. That is why we in committee have tabled our amendment, which we are retabled today, to bring that deadline to 48 months. Especially at the beginning, given the mass of information we will receive, this is important, and we want to do something with the intelligence. The penalty on the non-declaration of legal constructions will tighten you up. This measure seems to us to be a good thing in itself, and we cannot oppose it. We only believe that a financial penalty for the non-declaration of a legal arrangement is not enough. We have repeatedly discussed in committee the walking hole in the caiman tax. We have made a proposal to close the back door. You said you'd check it out later. Anything that escapes through the back door again is a missed opportunity, I believe. That is why our group is again tabling an amendment, together with the PS, to finally close that back door. Sp.a is not alone in this matter. Several tax lawyers who face the problem on a daily basis warn against this. I would rather we deal with this immediately than wait another year to find out that it is a problem after all. We have also tabled an amendment on access to the central point of contact. In Article 69 of the VAT Lawbook, we want to delete the condition to inform the taxpayer in advance. I do not think that limitation should exist anymore. As far as excise duties are concerned, you will not find any support from us. I refer to yesterday's discussion. We believe that tax measures and tax shift should be taken from those who pay too little today. You refuse once again to make it to the multinationals, to the fraudsters, to the greater assets. You want to get it back from the families. In any case, you will not receive our support for this. In addition to these amendments, we have tabled a few others. I will not elaborate on them. I've done that on several occasions. I refer again to yesterday's discussion, when Mr Van Rompuy challenged me to list our alternatives. Well, there are alternatives. You will be able to express your views on this again today. We believe that when it comes to increasing the net income of ordinary families with a tax shift, the government's measure of increasing VAT from 6% to 21% is a wrong measure. This was a measure which, in fact, left modal families with more net income at the end of the month. That is why we are tabling an amendment to re-introduce the reduction of the VAT rate on electricity. That's the logic itself. We have a tradition here of taxing consumer goods that cover our basic needs at 6%. Electricity is essential in our society. Electricity is a basic requirement. Another amendment concerns the abolition of the selling-off law for serious tax fraud, which we have also discussed on several occasions. I always make the comparison with traffic violations. The D.A. must be able to buy off the minor traffic offences. That is what friendly solutions are for, but we all believe that serious traffic offences should come before the police judge. The police judge will then have to pronounce the correct sanction. In cases of tax fraud, we are the same. Small tax offences can be paid off financially, but please do not let us give the message that serious, serious tax fraud should not be brought to justice. Another amendment strengthens the introduction of an added value tax on shares. I understand that the CD&V Group will put this amendment on the government table. I shall therefore be patient. The last amendment I would like to explain concerns the extension of the fairness tax introduced at the time to allow multinationals to pay a minimum tax of 5%. We believe that this can be doubled to 10%. This responds to many in this country's demand for fair taxes. Everyone should contribute to our well-being and prosperity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u174	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall speak from the top of the rostrum. The goal is not to be long but it is more pleasant to speak up. I wanted to highlight the positive points of this programme law. I did it in the Finance Committee and I will do it again here soon, even if we have amendments and questions. Among the positive points are the beginning of a country-by-country reporting for multinational companies, which will allow better control of corporate tax, easier access to a range of tax administration services at the central point of contact of bank accounts, measures to facilitate tax collection which is a real concern in our country and also additional means of justice for tax judges. These are actions that follow on from questions that we have put forward, proposals that we have put forward and suggestions. We must therefore stress them, although they are late and sometimes incomplete, which is why we have tabled some amendments, Mr Finance Minister. First of all, reporting, the fact that multinational companies need to communicate more about their activities and about taxes paid in foreign countries is a necessary measure to enable FPS Finance services to properly collect tax, so that profits are taxed in the countries where they are made, which is less and less the case for multinationals. Events such as the LuxLeaks, such as the condemnation of Belgium in the context of the excess profit ruling, have highlighted these practices of tax dumping, including those of our own countries, which must be brought to an end. We must stress Europe's reaction under the leadership of the Group of the Greens, the condemnation of Belgium by Commissioner Vestager in the context of the excess profit ruling. Even if it does not please you, Minister of Finance, it is an important signal to all countries involved in tax dumping. It is also important to highlight the work of the OECD in trying to create a common tax base for businesses. This awareness exists. It is gradually reflected in laws but it is too slow and I would like to take advantage of my presence here in the gallery and of this debate, Mr Finance Minister, to regret the obstacles you are putting to this exchange of information at European level, to the creation of a common tax base, particularly at the last ECOFIN Summit, where Belgium was the only country to slow down the implementation of the Anti-Tax Evasion Directive. You have delayed the agreement of Belgium and you have obtained both a weakening of the directive on these principles and a delay in its implementation, because a period of seven years has been decided to postpone it to 2024. I do not understand, given what you are planning under this programme law, why Belgium is still playing the wrong students in tax coordination at European level. In this, all the countries concerned, and beginning with ours, are shooting themselves in the foot. But I return to the principles of the programme law that are positive. We have tabled two amendments which we are resubmitting. They aim to lower the ceilings, above which transparency must be ensured as to the economic activity carried out in other countries and as to the taxes paid, while exempting SMEs which must not be overburdened administratively and which also aim to extend the information communicated to our tax administration. What are the profits made in foreign countries? What are the taxes paid? What is the employment in these different countries? What are the rules with foreign tax administrations? In my view, transparency is the condition of tax justice. There's a breakthrough here. We expect more. On the other hand, I would like to return briefly to a second element which I have had the opportunity to highlight. I am referring to the easy access to the central bank account contact point which is currently "hosted" by the National Bank. This is a very good tool, which was created when we decided to lift bank secrecy. The aim is to facilitate the work of the tax administration, but also to reduce the burden on banks which were frequently questioned by the tax administration to find out where the assets of citizens suspected of tax evasion were located. This centralization of information is positive. We have also voted in committee to grant tax services access to this central point of contact and to CTIF. We can only encourage you to go further and to draw your inspiration from the French example, from the FICOBA file, from TRACFIN, which are more effective tools than ours in the fight against tax fraud. As you know, we have regretted, minister, that the penalty for those who do not report tax constructions or bank accounts abroad is so low. It's true that there's a penalty, it's new. But it is not proportional to the assets concerned. It is not evolutionary in time. We have tabled an amendment both to reduce the penalty if the assets are merely symbolic, but also to increase it sharply when we talk about millions, tens of millions, hundreds of millions of euros that are included in these legal constructions. You will admit that a fine of 6,250 euros, in these cases, is not dissuasive for those who would be tempted not to declare. As part of the Panama Papers Committee, we interviewed the representatives of Ernst & Young, who confirmed to us that they found this amount rather ridiculous in relation to the structures they had to know. As I see you opining from the leader, perhaps our amendment has not been accepted in committee, perhaps it will not be accepted today, as soon as we resubmit it, but I hope that you will correct this in the context of a new law, a future programme law or a law with various provisions. I shall quickly come back to the measures taken to improve tax collection. Through parliamentary questions, I have highlighted the sometimes pharaonic amounts that are not recovered. Any unpaid tax increases the burden on those who pay the tax correctly. In terms of technology and personnel, there are ways, Minister, to ensure that our state's budgetary situation is better. I've recorded 6 billion uncollected taxes in five years. No doubt there are unrecoverable sums in there. However, it would already be a good goal to recover half of that 6 billion. That would give budgetary solutions that would do our fellow citizens less harm. Again, we supported these articles as part of the committee discussion. So, this is to be followed very closely. Finally, on behalf of my colleague Stefaan Van Hecke, and my other colleague Marcel Cheron, who voted for these articles in the Committee on Justice. The means granted, in the form of secondment, by the FPS Finances to the FPS Justice, and to the judges in charge of taxation, are very positive and necessary. I said to the Minister of Justice: there is a real problem with tax judges. Too many tax judges are missing from the framework. And the savings realized by not naming successors to those who change their position or access to the pension are false savings. Investments in tax control at all levels of the chain, at the level of the police, at the level of the tax administration or at the level of the justice system in this case, are investments that make it possible to bring money back into the State funds. So these are very positive investments, with an interest rate, if I can say so, very high. In particular, it contributes to more tax justice. When you propose such measures again, we will support them. All in all, unfortunately, we will not be able to vote in favour of the text, unless perhaps the amendments we are tabling are supported, because other provisions on which I do not come back are much less desirable. There will therefore be an abstention of the Ecolo-Groen Group on this programme law, which you must consider as an encouragement to continue in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u175	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. I understand that some of us aspire to see the game at 9:00 p.m. Others aspire to attend a concert by Paul McCartney. Time's coming. So I'll be very brief. This program law is a tote law, by definition. There are interesting and less interesting elements. I am not going to dwell on the positive aspects, because in committee we had the opportunity to vote on certain articles, and even on many articles that we thought were going in the right direction. I would just like to point out that the provision on access to the central point of contact, which is now open to various services of the FPS Finances as well as to the TIF, fully corresponds to a bill that I had tabled on behalf of the cdH group at the beginning of the legislature. This is the example of convergence which is not so common and which can be welcomed. As far as the more negative aspects are concerned, I would like not to dwell on the increase in excise duties on diesel...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u176	Excuse me, Mr. Dispa. May I ask all colleagues to make less noise? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u177	Mr President, thank you. I am not going to dwell on the increase in the excise duty on diesel, even though I regret that it is a levy that comes in addition to the detriment of households and even motorists who have no choice but to use their vehicle. With regard to VAT on gambling, I would like to highlight the uncertainties raised by the Council of State and once again regret that the Conciliation Committee is not a place for consensus, but simply a place where each one sets out its point of view without necessarily bringing it closer to the others. Finally, I would like to emphasise the provisions on the collaborative economy. I heard Mr Calomne's plea, which was very convinced. I would simply like to say to him that he is more convinced than convincing, if I believe the reactions of certain bodies representing the independents to these provisions. I refer in particular to a position expressed by the Union neutrale des indépendants, which considered that the proposed regulation is not fair and that it induces unfair competition, in particular in relation to the self-employed on a complementary basis. I am surprised that the MR is not more sensitive to it. Perhaps he could have read the opinion of the UCM (Union des Classes Moyennes), which gave a notice to the Picrate about this measure by making certain requests. In particular, it considers that the text should have been analysed by the legal services of INASTI and also calls for the social partners to be involved in the necessary reflection to take measures to prevent abuses in the light of the risks of unfair competition. These messages have not been heard. I very much regret that. I recognize the difficulty of understanding an emerging sector, and I welcome the effort that has been made. However, I am convinced that this project is not entirely successful and that we risk seeing perverse effects that the provisions presented here will not counteract. This is a subject on which we will necessarily have to come back, because I fear that the apprehensions that have been expressed by many independents will be verified in fact, which would lead you to have to review your copy. These, Mr President, are the most negative elements on which I wanted to insist without abusing the time of this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u178	Mr President, in this programme law there is a whole chapter on the collaborative economy or "substitution" of the economy, a cocktail of deregulation and unfair competition, the victims of which will be both the small self-employed and the employees who will suffer downward pressure with a domino effect on all the working conditions and wages of the world of work. Who are the winners? It is both the big bosses that make these people work and the multinationals that are the platforms of this uberization. Multinationals like Uber will appreciate this program law. Neelie Kroes said, when she had started as European Commissioner, that she would no longer accept a director's mandate in multinationals, since she had 43 of these mandates. Today, where do we find Neelie Kroes? In Uber. Minister, we knew you were a Chicago boy. Now we wonder if you're not going to become a "Kroes boy"! Of course, she applauds your program law with both hands. It is true that it contains measures that follow the Panama Papers scandal, but they are only measuring instruments without great consequences. With, moreover, questions, when you tell us, in the explanatory memorandum, that a tax haven can be a part of a state. When I ask you in committee if Delaware falls into this category, I do not get an answer. Maybe we'll have one today. Similarly, can there be a tax haven in the European Union? Close to home, a country condemns, not tax fraudsters, but those who denounce them. I assume you've heard of the LuxLeaks trial. Your $6,250 fine will probably scare you. One imagines a Chodiev, with his fortune of two billion, in front of this kind of sanction; he must "do in his pants". As for this transfer pricing measure, which adopts the BEPS Action Point 13, it will not be said that it is going in the wrong direction, but it is limited. Because the action points of the BEPS... It is well known that Belgium is not a good student in the fight against tax competition. It is even the canker; not the one who lacks capacity, but the voluntary canker, the true chahutor who does so knowingly and does not serve the reduction of tax competition. We will not recall the events of ECOFIN or the excess profit rules. All these discussions on the extension of the central point of contact do not go in the wrong direction either but remain very limited in relation to the challenges of the fight against tax fraud. They are even derisory when a central point of contact could serve as a basis for a real cadastre of fortunes and lead to the end of bank secrecy. We're a long way from that, and in committee you said that that was not your intention at all. I can't imagine a Chicago or a Kroes boy trying to put an end to bank secrecy. Multinationals and fraudsters continue to appreciate your policy, Minister. Therefore, we will not support this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u179	Mr President, I shall speak exclusively and briefly on the so-called collaborative economy, on these few articles of the programme law on the economic and fiscal aspects. I would like to open the eyes of colleagues in the majority as to the actual scope of these articles and the process put in place here. I wanted to let them see clearly with or without sunglasses, since sunglasses distort reality. Mr. Calomne pleaded in favour of the scheme put in place here. I would like to decide with this analysis, and since it is the end of the school year, a period of ballots, if I were to rate this part of the text, I would greatly bother the ministers who laid down these few articles, the government and the majority. Because there are two visions of the collaborative economy and the one chosen by the government is the most negative and unhealthy. It is the one that favours unfair competition between workers, destroys our model of social protection and destroys the high level of protection of workers as the system has built it over time in our country. With these few articles, the government is far from the collaborative ideal. From now on, precarious work is legalized. They are mini-jobs which will create a strong unfair competition between two labour relations, one which is subject to a normal tax and which opens up social rights for workers, and one which is imposed at 10% without any social protection. This form of uberization that the government is putting in place will have very negative consequences for workers. Unfortunately, these consequences can occur in many sectors: horeca, work, transport of people, gardening, etc. The tax system granted to these mini-jobs will lead to their replacement, in part, of jobs established under normal employment contracts. Finally, it's the formula where bad employment chases the right one. In other words, no job seeker will emerge from unemployment as a result of this measure, except possibly by way of precariousness. bpost is obviously the fine example by the absurd, or in any case negative, with the new Bringer platform set up for the distribution of packages. Finally, we can see in the morning the mailman who distributes the mail and in the afternoon, the same person who will end up with his costume as an independent parcel deliveryer 2.0. From this sharing economy, the government proposes a reading that favours each and every one of us; mini-jobs operate outside our social security system, with a reduced rate of taxation. So finally, very few returns to finance public services. We have seen in recent weeks that the police and the judiciary are in great need of funding. We saw that there were needs. It is certainly not through these types of schemes that we will ensure the financing of these public services. For the Socialist Party, the collaborative economy cannot be the pretext for destructing our social model. We believe that these Internet platforms should and can be useful, can be a tool that facilitates the lives of workers and consumers. But this new economy should guarantee these workers and consumers the same protections that currently exist. I will conclude by saying that this debate on the collaborative economy deserves better than the way the government organizes this project and that this approach of inserting a few dozen articles into a tote law. We have been many to indicate in committee that we are ready for an exchange of views and a forward-looking analysis of this new niche of activities, but certainly not to join the negative philosophy advocated by the government. It is therefore obvious that the Socialist Group will not support this bad project, both in this area and in others.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u180	Our group has also often intervened in the discussion of this programme law in committee. I would like to highlight two points. First of all, I am talking about the collaborative economy, or rather, the platform economy. We have mentioned it in committee: in fact, sharing economy is not the right term for what is to be understood in this programme law. I made the point in committee that the real sharing economy remains out of the sphere of income tax, because it is cost-sharing. When talking about platform economy, we believe that an attempt should be made to establish a good, transparent and simple fiscal framework. We want and must give these new initiatives every opportunity, but we wonder whether the scheme provided for in the programme law is indeed so transparent, unambiguous and simple. I believe that we have missed a number of opportunities to simplify the scheme. We have certainly made these comments. We also wonder whether there is a level playing field between this system of the sharing economy and the scheme for the self-employed in the secondary sector. We would like to see a review next year of the effects and revenues of this scheme, as well as the possible unfair competition with other sectors and the impact on the social status of the self-employed. I asked this question in committee, and I repeat it now. Secondly, and finally, there are a lot of new provisions in this draft programme law on the fight against tax fraud. Of course, we fully support it. We are pleased that a step is being taken towards a better fight against tax fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u181	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to Mr Vanvelthoven's speech, I would like to add a few more on social matters, which you will find in the form of amendments to your banks. First of all, I'd like to talk about pay supplements. The unlimited possibility of charging pay supplements ensures that caregivers in single rooms can charge a multiple of the statutory rate. Due to the often inadequate information about this, patients are not always aware of the consequences of their choice of room. In addition, it appeared very recently that some doctors put pressure on patients to choose a single room. As a result, they expose themselves to financial risk derivatives when they are not insured or insufficiently insured. We therefore believe that the reform of hospital funding should provide for a financing structure in which the hospital's dependence on doctors' contributions is broken. In this way, the final argument to allow wage supplements will immediately disappear. The Minister also recently expressed his support for the disappearance of these supplements. We are particularly pleased with this and suggest that you immediately take action and ban the wage supplements from 1 January 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u182	Mrs. Jiroflée, Mrs. Van Camp would like to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u183	It is very hypocritical to make such a proposal on the abolition of supplements after 25 years of administration. I think it is hypocritical, because today we cannot abolish the supplements in the single rooms, precisely because the socialist policy of the past few decades, the hospitals are in the red and the funding has been completely distorted. That is what we need to do before we can take any further steps. It is this government that has abolished the pay supplements in the double rooms, not the sp.a, because then there were pay supplements in the double rooms. It will also be this government that abolishes the supplements in the single rooms, something you have never been able to realize in 25 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u184	I was wondering where it was. We had not heard it today, as our group leader says. A number of efforts have been made by the previous government. You know that too, Mrs. Van Camp. Besides, we weren't alone in that government. I can now only conclude that the Minister for Health also thinks that we should do something about this. With regard to the reimbursement of mental health care, too, we have a proposal and on this we have already understood that the Minister agrees with us and thinks about a refund. As of September 1st, the law on psychic care will take effect. Let it be very clear, that is not the way we would have liked to see it. But if the minister is serious, then this law is a good reason to make a budget available immediately and to include the reimbursement of mental health care in the program law. The funds are available, as a saving of EUR 84 million will be achieved, resulting from structural underutilisation, invoicing fraud, overconsumption and medical waste. Instead of reducing the growth standard in health care to 0.72%, we can make this money available for the reimbursement of mental health care. Finally, a woman's case. In Belgium we pay 21 % VAT on sanitary towels, insert crosses and tampons. In other words, these products are considered luxury goods. Basic products are subject to only 6% VAT. Ten years ago, we had drawn up a proposal on the so-called tampontaks. I can remember vividly, it is one of the nice moments in my career that we had put an action on the line, in which we had put a leaflet in the form of a bloodstain on the seats of the chamber members, so that they had to literally look at the hygiene problems. I remember getting a scold from our group chairman at the time, but I also remember receiving the support of the then Finance Minister, who formally promised to eliminate this discrimination and then announced it in the media. More than ten years later, women still have to pay extra for their menstruation. And I admit it, because I can already hear it coming: that is also partly a collective responsibility. Meanwhile, Belgium is slowly on its own with that sexist tax. In Canada, France, Ireland, Spain and the Netherlands, VAT rates on female hygiene products have been reduced or abolished in recent years. The State of New York decided in May of this year to follow other American states and get rid of the 4 percent tampontaks. The monthly periods cover an average of 6.5 years in a woman's life. A total of about 12 000 sanitary towels or tampons are used. Always nice to tell the family at the coffee. A VAT reduction on this necessary product therefore represents a very important saving in the lives of female consumers. When the VAT is reduced from 21% to 6%, it is equivalent, and that is not insignificant, to 20 million euros, really peanuts when compared to the purchase of the new fighter planes from Defense. So come on government, go for the women this time instead of playing war at the boy's playground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u185	Mr President, I will also focus on the issue of the collaborative economy. This is an important issue that will influence our way of consuming and interacting with fellow citizens, our relationship to employment, our way of financing social security. This issue is the subject of only a few articles in the programme law and has generated little debate both in the Committee on the Economy and in the Committee on Finance. That is a shame because the subject deserves to be much more thorough. That being said, ecologists see the collaborative economy as an opportunity to consume differently, to favour the use of property, to consume more reasonably, for a more moderate use of our resources, to encourage other relationships within the community among fellow citizens, as well as entrepreneurship and the creation of local activities and jobs. Many initiatives claim to participate in this new form of economy and the palette is extremely broad. Wild activities "to the Uber" cannot be compared with local carpooling platforms. That is why the public authorities must act. Two types of action are needed: regulation, to enable these activities to contribute to our social system, to social protection while contributing to the financing of the State; and encouragement of interesting projects. The bill addresses regulation, social status, tax status, mainly Internet platforms, because we are not talking about the collaborative economy in general. Moreover, as I have said on several occasions in committee, we would have liked the incentive aspect of the public authorities to be dealt with. I reminded the Ministers Borsus and De Croo. There are many examples of public authorities that can participate positively in this collaborative economy. For example, I have proposed that the fleet of federal cars be on such a platform. The municipality of Schaerbeek does. I sincerely encourage you to imagine positive steps in this direction. As far as the bill is concerned, I will go to the core. In principle, we share the idea that the collaborative economy should be regulated and contribute to the financing of our state's social security. Putting in place simple and automatic rules for these internet platforms seems to us to go in the right direction. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, why establish a specific status, which is in addition to that of self-employed workers, whether in principal or incidental title, and that which is in force in the Horeca and the social economy? To repeat an example mentioned in the committee, why would a gardener who, when returning on the evening of his main activity, would cut the garden of his neighbours without going through a collaborative platform pay more and have a different status than another who would go through an internet platform? It is basically on the tool that you propose that we have great fears and restrictions. Indeed, de facto, the tax treatment introduced results in unfair competition. You create a status that grants other rights and obligations to actors in the collaborative economy than to workers who engage in the same activities without resorting to internet platforms. As the representatives of the independents, the NIS and the UCM have also complained, you are introducing an additional status with more favourable conditions, although there is no justification for this. In committee, Minister Borsus explained that additional measures would be announced for the self-employed, but no more is known. It is therefore difficult to decide what will be done in a complementary manner. In conclusion, for us, regret is that the reflection has been, if not sloppy, at least too short. We stop here and we feel like we're tinkering. An unconsolidated, non-globalized framework is being developed to be able to incorporate it into a programme law. That's our main regret. We also met with the people who represent the platforms. They are not asking for a favourable fiscal or social framework compared to other independents. They are asking for simplicity and automaticity and not for simpler tax rates. We are convinced that we will have to think about other alternatives or more comprehensive alternatives that take all the self-employed into account, think about a global framework to effectively simplify their lives and the creation of businesses, but not the way you act today. We can find ourselves in some of your intentions, but unfortunately the work is not finished and we will come back with concrete proposals in committee. That is why, at this stage, we will abstain from this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u186	Mr President, as far as the social affairs component of this programme law is concerned, I have taken a number of information from the committee. I would like to draw the minister's attention to the part concerning the fact that you gave to the medical board of disability of the INAMI, the competence to be able to end the primary incapacity from the first day of the seventh month of incapacity. In committee, we had discussed this aspect. In principle, I didn't see a problem. On the other hand, I realize, thanks to the information I have received, that at the technical level the flow of different information will not be simple. A significant additional workload will be given to medical consultants. On the other hand, I noticed that today we are doing the opposite of what was decided a few months ago. You had procedures in place at the time to give more autonomy to medical consultants. I find it particular that the government does everything and its opposite a few months away. In addition, I believe that beyond the operational problems this will pose, it will above all create a system of communication vessels between your colleague in charge of Employment, the one in charge of CPAS and yourself. In the end, this will not change much, except that it will cause a lot of additional administrative problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u187	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your many comments. I have heard interesting things on a number of issues, in particular on the sharing economy and tax fraud, which we can certainly take with us. With the tax fraud I want to start by making some punctual comments. With regard to information obtained from abroad, the search and investigation period is now extended to 24 months. That should be enough. But if the amount of information is too large, to what extent will we be prepared to review it, if necessary? As far as the penalty for non-declaring structures is concerned, I have two reservations about the generally somewhat narrowing comment that the amount would be too low. Firstly, it is an amount per structure. Secondly, the penalty does not affect the fine or any increase in the tax that will be applied. One cannot see this isolated from the whole. With regard to the caiman tax, it has also been pointed out that there are possible escape routes. If they are discussed and determined by the FPS Finance, we will certainly not fail to draw conclusions. With regard to VAT on online gambling and money games, several comments have also been raised in the Committee on the question of whether the VAT tax can be combined with the regional tax on gambling and money. I would like to remind you that, under Article 401 of the European VAT Directive, there is no obstacle to the enforcement or introduction by a Member State of a VAT charge on money and gambling on the one hand, and to taxes and charges which do not have the character of a turnover tax on the other. Thus, according to the European Court, a Member State may apply cumulative VAT and other taxes to games and bets as long as the latter are not of a turnover tax nature. Since this is a value added tax, I believe that there is sufficient legal certainty. A comment was also made about the collection at international level, because we can of course have Belgian players on foreign platforms. The first try-out with the MOSS system, an international system to capture such transactions, shows that this should work. But that too will be closely followed. As far as the collaborative economy, the platform economy and the cooperative economy are concerned, I will be brief because Mr Borsus will discuss this further. With regard to the possible concerns about the principle of equality, it should be stressed that the modalities for applying the specific tax regime on the sharing economy are very strict compared to the regular economy. The services may only be provided to private individuals, the platforms must be recognised by the government, the customer pays all the sums he or she owes for services to or via the electronic platform. These incomes are limited to EUR 5 000 per year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u188	Mr President, I shall be brief. Mrs Jiroflée said a few words about the supplements. Now, the supplements in the double rooms for normal hospitalization were abolished by then Minister Onkelinx. Honor to all who deserve credit. The supplements in the daily hospitalization were abolished by me as the next step. As far as the reform of hospital funding is concerned, I have said that we know that hospitals are now underfunded, not for a number of years, but for many years. If we can reform hospital funding into proper funding with a good remuneration, then my goal is to get rid of those high supplements. The new Medicomut agreement also states that supplements must be controlled, because supplements are a bad thing for patients. I now come to Mrs Fonck's comment. Mrs. Fonck, you said that the medical consultants will conduct a re-evaluation after seven months. Be aware that this is already provided for in the current law, in other words, it is already the case. After seven months, the situation of the persons concerned will have to be reviewed. On this occasion, it will be necessary to consider whether they are willing to accept another job. We're going to put in place a double process. For example, five INAMI doctors will examine 7,500 cases per year around the eighth or ninth month. This will be an opportunity for us to verify that all mutualities, all medical consultants apply the same rules to all citizens. This will not lead to more work. If the physician-counsel has done his job and shares the opinion of the INAMI physician, there will be no problems. If this is not the case, there is a risk that they will conflict. We will then see what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u189	Mr President, thank you. Two groups of questions or comments were made on the collaborative economy passage. In this respect, I would like to remind you of the framework before you: we are talking about a monthly gross income of EUR 416.6 per month. We are therefore talking about an extremely marked and limited framework in terms of activity. It must also be exercised through a platform which itself must be approved. Clearly, this activity is emerging not only at home but in a large number of countries. It therefore seemed appropriate to create, in a limited way, a framework to respond to this new form of activity. We have heard questions about the possible discriminatory nature. The Council of State, duly consulted, did not fail the project but simply asked that the treatment of this new form of economy be justified, which we have done. I would like to make it clear that this is not the final point of our reflections on the collaborative economy. In committee, we had indicated that we would be happy to continue to participate in any reflection, analysis or colloquium on the subject. I also draw attention to the fact that this can be an interesting gateway for a wider entrepreneurial or independent activity that would develop in the future. These elements include obvious simplification in terms, for example, of registration in the Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises (Bank Carrefour des Entreprises) and of VAT. The scheme has already incorporated simplification elements. I will conclude by saying that for other activities, such as food security or other aspects, there are rules that must continue to be respected. Let us not misunderstand what I have said about the additional measures for traditional self-employed people. This is not a response to discrimination since we are challenging the fact that there is discrimination, but as you know, the status of the self-employed, in general, is mobilising us strongly. I am pleased that the government, on this occasion, once again gave me the opportunity and gave me the mandate to come with new proposals to help the traditional independents. As regards monitoring and evaluation, as has been mentioned by several interventions, we hope that they can be carried out in all aspects, so that, as we are doing in full transparency, we can evaluate this new mechanism in committee in a year or two. But we must give him real confidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u190	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u191	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committees is the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1875/10) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committees serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1875/10) The draft law has 129 articles. The bill has 129 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u192	• 55 – Karin Jiroflée (1875/11) Annex V.Part • 56 – Karin Jiroflée (1875/11) Annex V.Part • 57 – Karin Jiroflée (1875/11) Annex V.Part 2.124 • 58 – Karin Jiroflée (1875/11) Chapter / Chapter 1BIS(n)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u193	• 66 Kristof Calvo cs (1875/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u194	• 7 p.m. Peter Vanvelthoven cs (1875/11) Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) 131(n) • 8 p.m. Peter Vanvelthoven cs (1875/11) Chapter / Chapter 11(n)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u195	• 9 p.m. Peter Vanvelthoven cs (1875/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u196	• 11 p.m. Peter Vanvelthoven cs (1875/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u197	• 13 • Peter Vanvelthoven cs (1875/11) Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) 136(n) • 14 p.a. Peter Vanvelthoven cs (1875/11) Chapter / Chapter 12(n)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u198	• 15 p.m. Peter Vanvelthoven cs (1875/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u199	• 17 p.m. Peter Vanvelthoven cs (1875/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u200	• 19 p.m. Peter Vanvelthoven cs (1875/11) Chapter / Chapter 13(n)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u201	• 20 p.m. Peter Vanvelthoven cs (1875/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u202	22 Peter Vanvelthoven cs (1875/11) Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) 143(n) • 23 p.m. Peter Vanvelthoven cs (1875/11) Chapter / Chapter 15(n)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u203	• 51 p.a. Peter Vanvelthoven cs (1875/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u204	Title / Title IV(n) • 24 years old Peter Vanvelthoven cs (1875/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u205	• 25 years old Peter Vanvelthoven cs (1875/11) Chapter / Chapter 1(n)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u206	• 26 • Peter Vanvelthoven cs (1875/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u207	• 28 years old Peter Vanvelthoven cs (1875/11) Chapter / Chapter 2(n)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u208	• 29 years old Peter Vanvelthoven cs (1875/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u209	• 31 • Peter Vanvelthoven cs (1875/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u210	• 32 p.a. Peter Vanvelthoven cs (1875/11) Chapter / Chapter 1(n)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u211	• 33 p.m. Peter Vanvelthoven cs (1875/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u212	• 35 p.m. Peter Vanvelthoven cs (1875/11) Chapter / Chapter 2(n)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u213	• 36 • Peter Vanvelthoven cs (1875/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u214	• 38 years old Peter Vanvelthoven cs (1875/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u215	• 39 p.a. Peter Vanvelthoven cs (1875/11) Chapter / Chapter 1(n)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u216	• 40 years old Peter Vanvelthoven cs (1875/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u217	• 42 p.a. Peter Vanvelthoven cs (1875/11) Chapter / Chapter 2(n)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u218	• 43 p.a. Peter Vanvelthoven cs (1875/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u219	• 45 years old Peter Vanvelthoven cs (1875/11) Chapter / Chapter 1(n)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u220	• 46 p.a. Peter Vanvelthoven cs (1875/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u221	• 48 years old Peter Vanvelthoven cs (1875/11) Chapter / Chapter 2(n)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u222	• 49 • Peter Vanvelthoven cs (1875/11) Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) 157(n) • 50 p.a. Peter Vanvelthoven cs (1875/11) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u223	******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u224	In accordance with Article 1 of the Law of 13 August 1990 setting up a Committee for the Evaluation of the Law of 3 April 1990 on the Rejection of Pregnancy, amending Articles 348, 350, 351 and 352 of the Criminal Code and repealing Article 353 of the same Code, the Chamber should propose the members of the National Evaluation Committee to terminate pregnancy. Pursuant to article 1 of the Act of 13 August 1990 on the establishment of an evaluation committee of the Act of 3 April 1990 on termination of pregnancy, amending articles 348, 350, 351 and 352 of the Criminal Code and repealing article 353 of the same Code, the Chamber must make a presentation of the members of the National Commission for the Evaluation of Voluntary Interruption of Pregnancy. The Commission shall consist of sixteen effective members and sixteen alternates: - eight members are doctors, at least four of whom are professors, professors or emeritus professors in medicine at a Belgian university; - four members are teachers, professors or emeritus professors in law at a Belgian university or attorney; - four members come from circles responsible for the reception and supervision of women in an emergency. The Commission shall consist of sixteen effective members and sixteen alternate members: - eight members are medical doctors, at least four of whom are lecturers, professors or emeritus professors of medicine at a Belgian university; - four members are lecturers, professors or meritorious professors of law at a Belgian university or lawyers; - four members come from circles responsible for the reception and guidance of women in distress. The Commission has nine women and seven men. There are nine women and seven men in the Commission. Members shall be appointed by royal decree from a double list by the Chamber for a renewable term of four years, taking into account linguistic parity and pluralist representation. Candidates who have not been appointed as effective members shall be appointed alternates. The members shall be appointed, in accordance with linguistic parity and pluralistic representation, by royal decree on a double list presented by the Chamber for a renewable term of four years. Candidates who have not been appointed as full members shall be appointed as alternate members. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 June 2016, a call for candidates will be published in the Belgian Official Journal. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 June 2016, a call for candidates will be published in the Belgian Moniteur. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u225	In accordance with Article 6 (2), third paragraph, of the Law of 28 May 2002 on euthanasia, the Court is to propose the members of the Federal Audit and Evaluation Committee on the application of the law on euthanasia. In accordance with article 6, paragraph 2, paragraph 3, of the Act of 28 May 2002 on euthanasia, the Chamber must proceed with the presentation of the members of the Federal Commission for the Control and Evaluation of the Application of the Euthanasia Act. The Commission shall consist of sixteen effective members and sixteen alternates: The Commission shall consist of sixteen effective members and sixteen alternate members: - eight members are doctors, at least four of whom are professors, professors or emeritus professors in medicine at a Belgian university; - eight members are medical doctors, at least four of whom are lecturers, professors or emeritus professors of medicine at a Belgian university; - four members are teachers, professors or emeritus professors in law at a Belgian university or attorney; - four members are lecturers, professors or meritorious professors of law at a Belgian university or lawyers; - four members come from circles responsible for the problems of incurably ill patients. - four members come from circles dealing with the problem of patients with an incurable disease. Members shall be appointed by royal decree from a double list by the Chamber for a renewable term of four years, taking into account the linguistic parity, each language group having at least three candidates of each sex. Members are appointed, with due regard for linguistic parity - each linguistic group with at least three candidates of each sex - and on the basis of pluralistic representation, by royal decree on a double list presented by the Chamber for a renewable term of four years. Candidates who have not been appointed as effective members shall be appointed alternates. Candidates who have not been appointed as effective members shall be appointed as alternate members. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 June 2016, a call for candidates will be published in the Belgian Official Journal. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 June 2016, a call for candidates will be published in the Belgian Moniteur. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u226	At the request of the chairman of the Committee on Health, the Environment and Social Renewal, I would like to propose the legislative proposal of Mrs Els Van Hoof, Nahima Lanjri, Nathalie Muylle and Valerie Van Peel, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf and Mrs Ine Somers concerning the genital mutilation (No. 1799/1), to be referred to the Justice Commission for its opinion. At the request of the Chairman of the Committee on Public Health, the Environment and the Renewal of the Society, I propose that you refer the bill of Mrs Els Van Hoof, Mrs Nahima Lanjri, Mrs Nathalie Muylle and Mrs Valerie Van Peel, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf and Mrs Ine Somers on genital mutilation (No. 1799/1) to the Committee on Justice for opinion. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u227	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 29 June 2016, I also propose that you consider: - the draft law (Mr Christoph D'Haese) amending the law of 7 December 1998 establishing an integrated police service, structured at two levels as regards security plans, No. 1933/1; - the legislative proposal (Mr Brecht Vermeulen) amending the law of 8 December 1992 on the protection of privacy with regard to the processing of personal data, as regards the operation of the Supervisory Body on police information, No. 1943/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u228	- the proposal (Mr Peter Vanvelthoven cs) to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to examine the operation of financial supervisors and the special tax inspection in the control of the bank Optima, No. 1938/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u229	- the legislative proposal (Mr David Clarinval, Mrs Goedele Uyttersprot and Mr Patricia Ceysens and Mr Egbert Lachaert, Mr Vincent Scourneau and Mr Benoît Friart) amending the Code of Companies and the Act of 31 January 2009 on the continuity of undertakings with a view to improving the winding-up of non-active companies, companies having a fictitious seat and companies whose managers have insufficient professional knowledge, No. 1940/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u230	- the bill (Mr Veli Yüksel, Mr Roel Deseyn, Mr Franky Demon and Mr Raf Terwingen) on the fight against terrorist financing and money laundering, No. 1942/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u231	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 29 June 2016, I also propose that you take into account: - the bill (Mr. Christoph D'Haese) amending, with regard to security plans, the Act of 7 December 1998 establishing an integrated, two-tiered police service, No. 1933/1; - the proposal for a law (Mr Brecht Vermeulen) amending, as regards the functioning of the Police Information Review Body, the Act of 8 December 1992 on the protection of privacy with regard to the processing of personal data, No 1943/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u232	- the proposal (Mr Peter Vanvelthoven et al.) to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to examine the functioning of the financial supervisory authorities and the Special Tax Inspectorate in the context of the supervision of Optima Bank, No 1938/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u233	- the bill (Mrs. David Clarinval, Ms. Goedele Uyttersprot and Patricia Ceysens and Messrs. Egbert Lachaert, Vincent Scourneau and Benoît Friart) amending the Company Code and the law of 31 January 2009 on business continuity, improving the procedure for the dissolution of inactive companies, whose headquarters are fictitious and those whose officials do not have sufficient professional knowledge, No 1940/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u234	- the bill (MM. Veli Yüksel, Roel Deseyn, Franky Demon and Raf Terwingen) concerning the fight against the financing of terrorism and money laundering activities, No 1942/1
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u235	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u236	Mr President, the proposal to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry on Optima has been very topical in recent hours and days. I understand that there is virtually room-wide support for this. I would like to support that proposal No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u237	Ladies and gentlemen, urgent procedure has been requested. We must express our opinion on this in the usual way, that is to say, by sitting and standing up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u238	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law on urgent tax provisions, No. 1920/1. The government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the Bill on Urgent Tax Provisions, No. 1920/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u239	Mr President, the request for urgency for this draft law is supported by the following elements. First, chapter 2, on Tate & Lyle, amends Article 269/1 of the WIB 92. The introduction of this article led to an unintentionally more favourable treatment of a foreign company, as the article does not provide for an assessment condition. Untimely adjustment of this would mean a budgetary cost for the State. As regards Chapter 3 on patent deductions, the abolition of the existing regime of patent deductions and a transitional regime for existing deductions and patents already applied for should be introduced. The urgency of this is justified by the fact that according to the OECD report in the context of its BEPS Action Plan, our current system of patent deduction from 1 July 2016 is no longer in line with OECD international standards. Therefore, according to the OECD report, no deduction can be allowed from 1 July onwards. We want to help fix this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u240	I understand, Minister, that you have also justified the request for urgency for draft No. 1941/1?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u241	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u242	There's too much noise. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u243	The Government also requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft programme law (II) was submitted. 1941/1. The government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the introduction of Program Bill (II), No. 1941/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u244	Mr. Chair, the bill contains a series of fiscal measures taken as part of budgetary control. These measures are directly linked to the implementation of the budget, and in particular to the first adjustment of the 2016 budget, it is imperative that the draft be voted before the end of the session.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u245	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u246	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Health, the Environment and the Social Renewal of 21 June 2016. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on Public Health, the Environment and the Renewal of the Society on 21 June 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 152/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Karin Jiroflée; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Dirk Janssens. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 152/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Karin Jiroflée; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Dirk Janssens. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u247	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a great deal of ink over the last few weeks. The fact is that several studies show that there are serious reasons to fear that this substance is carcinogenic and hormonal. After a soap opera of months at European level, the European Commission is now going for a temporary technical extension of 18 months. This is only about the active substance, and not about the products in which it is contained. Member States may strictly restrict or even prohibit those products. Belgium can do that too. Hence this appeal to the government and to the majority to apply the precautionary principle and to prohibit the use of arthropods in approved herbicides for private use, as well as to prohibit the use of herbicide-containing herbicides in public places such as schools and hospitals or along the railways.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u248	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Everyone has -Does he vote and check his vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 78 Yes No. 50 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 128 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u249	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on Public Health, the Environment and the Renewal of the Society on 21 June 2016. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Health, the Environment and the Social Renewal of 21 June 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 157/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. André Frédéric; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Nathalie Muylle, Ms Ine Somers and Mr Yoleen Van Camp and Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 157/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr André Frédéric; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Nathalie Muylle, Mrs Ine Somers and Mr Yoleen Van Camp and by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u250	Mr President, I have obviously passed the age of imagining that, after having debated certain matters for many hours in committee, and coming back to debate with arguments for many hours too, we can convince those who do not want to be convinced. You can't drink to a horse that's not thirsty! But I said to myself, the subject being important, after long hesitation in speaking, that everyone should know what they were going to support with this motion. Regularly, we realize that the Minister of Health is attacking patients, sometimes with complete discretion but with certain efficiency. In this case, I was moved by the fact that since June 1st it has decided to abolish refunds for MRIs performed on unapproved machines, namely those acquired by hospitals that have invested in this equipment to try to be as effective as possible. So we send the patient back, which we're not going to protect anymore, we're not going to increase the number of MRI devices and we're going to make health less accessible. I think you had to be aware of that. By voting this pure and simple motion, you exclude the patient from the possibility of being treated with dignity and efficiency in this country. I wanted to insist on this subject so that everyone can regain their freedom to vote, because it is almost ethical, dear friends of the MR, since it concerns public health on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u251	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u252	Yes 78 Yes No. 50 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 128 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u253	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 78 Yes No. 48 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1804/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1804/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mr Van der Maelen voted against.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u254	Vote on Amendment No 8 by Karin Temmerman on article 1.1.02. (1805/6) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Karin Temmerman to Rule 1.01.2. (1805/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[45]] Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 1.01.2 and the attached tables were adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 1.01.2 and the annexed tables were adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u255	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 76 Yes No. 49 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1805/7) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1805/7) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mr Beke voted in favour. Mrs Gantois has voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u256	Vote on Amendment No 41 by Laurette Onkelinx on article 11. (1848/10) Vote on Amendment No 41 by Laurette Onkelinx to Article 11. (1848/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[29]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 20 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 42 by Laurette Onkelinx on article 11. (1848/10) Vote on Amendment No 42 by Laurette Onkelinx to Article 11. (1848/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u257	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 43 by Laurette Onkelinx on article 11. (1848/10) Vote on Amendment No 43 by Laurette Onkelinx to Article 11. (1848/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes [[29]] Yes No. 86 No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 44 by Laurette Onkelinx on article 11. (1848/10) Vote on Amendment No 44 by Laurette Onkelinx to Article 11. (1848/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 31 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 18 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 45 by Laurette Onkelinx on article 11. (1848/10) Vote on Amendment No 45 by Laurette Onkelinx to Article 11. (1848/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes [[29]] Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 126 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mrs Demir has voted in favour. Mr Beke voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 39 by Catherine Fonck on article 11. (1848/9) Vote on Amendment No 39 by Catherine Fonck to Article 11. (1848/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 9 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 39 Abstensions Total 127 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 40 by Catherine Fonck on article 11. (1848/9) Vote on Amendment No 40 by Catherine Fonck to Article 11. (1848/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes [[27]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 21 Abstensions Total 127 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 46 by Laurette Onkelinx on article 11. (1848/10) Vote on Amendment No 46 by Laurette Onkelinx to Article 11. (1848/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes [[29]] Yes No. 86 No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and the Article 11 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 47 by Laurette Onkelinx on article 13. (1848/10) Vote on Amendment No 47 by Laurette Onkelinx to Article 13. (1848/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes [[29]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 19 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and the Article 13 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 13 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u258	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u259	Mr President, we had a long discussion in committee on the future of psychotherapy, which continued yesterday in this House. I understand that you have remained marble in the face of the arguments of many professionals who have expressed themselves through social networks, by e-mail, by petition. You have remained deaf to the arguments of a large part of the opposition, whereas on such a subject we should have really gone beyond the usual majority-opposition framework. Exits the living, diverse psychotherapy which, for years, offers an answer to those who are suffering psychically. You choose narrow psychotherapy, based on scientific evidence that does not exist in mental health. Through the lame compromise detour, you organize a transitional period that reduces the protection of patients. It is a bad law, retrograde, closed but also legally fragile. Of course, the PS group will vote against this project. More than that, we will mobilize alongside those who do not resign and who I want to greet today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u260	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 79 Yes No. 30 No Abstentions 18 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1848/11) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1848/11) Mr Demeyer voted against.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u261	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 127 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1873/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1873/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u262	Vote on Amendment No 1 by Sebastian Pirlot cs to insert recital A/0(n). (1881/3) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Sebastian Pirlot cs to insert a recital A/0(n). (1881/3) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 32 Yes No. 90 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 127 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u263	Mr President, I wanted to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u264	Of which act. Mr Lutgen also voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 2 by Sebastian Pirlot cs to insert a recital P(n). (1881/3) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Sebastian Pirlot cs to insert a recital P(n). (1881/3) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes [[22]] Yes No. 88 No Abstentions 16 Abstensions Total 126 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence? Mr. Frédéric voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 3 by Sebastian Pirlot cs on request 2. (1881/3) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Sebastian Pirlot cs on request 2. (1881/3) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes [[17]] Yes No. 89 No Abstentions 21 Abstensions Total 127 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 4 from Sebastian Pirlot cs on request 3. (1881/3) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Sebastian Pirlot cs at request 3. (1881/3) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes 24 Yes No. 88 No Abstentions 16 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 5 by Sebastian Pirlot cs inserting a request 6/1(n). (1881/3) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Sebastian Pirlot cs to insert a request 6/1(n). (1881/3) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes [[25]] Yes No. 90 No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u265	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 21) Yes 86 Yes No. [[40]] No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1881/7) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1881/7) Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u266	Vote on Amendment No 7 by Catherine Fonck on article 3. (1890/5) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Catherine Fonck to Article 3. (1890/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 22) Yes 48 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 8 by Catherine Fonck on Article 9. (1890/5) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Catherine Fonck to Article 9. (1890/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? (Vote/vote 22) Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 9 by Catherine Fonck on article 10. (1890/5) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Catherine Fonck to Article 10. (1890/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? (Vote/vote 22) Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 10 by Catherine Fonck on article 11. (1890/5) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Catherine Fonck to Article 11. (1890/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? (Vote/vote 22) Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 11 by Catherine Fonck on article 12. (1890/5) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Catherine Fonck to Article 12. (1890/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? (Vote/vote 22) Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 12 by Catherine Fonck on article 13. (1890/5) Vote on Amendment No 12 by Catherine Fonck to Article 13. (1890/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? (Vote/vote 22) Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 13 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 13 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u267	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 23) Yes [[80]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 48 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1890/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1890/6) Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u268	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 24) Yes 125 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1862/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1862/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u269	Vote on Amendment No 22 by Olivier Maingain for the deletion of Article 5. ( 1819/5) Vote on Amendment No 22 by Olivier Maingain to delete Article 5. (1819/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 25) Yes [[46]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 23 by Olivier Maingain on Article 7. (1819/5) Vote on Amendment No 23 by Olivier Maingain to Article 7. (1819/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 26) Yes [[37]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 24 by Stefaan Van Hecke cs leaving out Article 7. (1819/6) Vote on Amendment No 24 by Stefaan Van Hecke cs to delete Article 7. (1819/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 27) Yes [[39]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 28 by Christian Brotcorne on Article 7. (1819/6) Vote on Amendment No 28 by Christian Brotcorne to Article 7. (1819/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 28) Yes 48 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 25 by Stefaan Van Hecke cs on article 9. (1819/6) Vote on Amendment No 25 by Stefaan Van Hecke cs to Article 9. (1819/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 29) Yes 48 Yes No. 79 Non Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u270	Mr President, I voted against.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u271	Of which act. Vote on Amendment No 26 by Stefaan Van Hecke cs on article 9. (1819/6) Vote on Amendment No 26 by Stefaan Van Hecke cs to Article 9. (1819/6) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u272	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 27 by Stefaan Van Hecke cs on article 19. (1819/6) Vote on Amendment No 27 by Stefaan Van Hecke cs to Article 19. (1819/6) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u273	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 19 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 19 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u274	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 30) Yes [[80]] Yes No. [[47]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1819/7) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1819/7) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u275	Vote on Amendment No 31 from Georges Dallemagne to insert a recital G/1(n). (1883/5) Vote on Amendment No 31 by Georges Dallemagne to insert a recital G/1(n). (1883/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[28]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 19 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Vote on Amendment No 32 by Georges Dallemagne to insert a recital I/1(n). (1883/5) Vote on amendment No 32 by Georges Dallemagne to insert a recital I/1(n). (1883/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 32) Yes [[47]] Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 124 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 33 by Georges Dallemagne to insert a recital J/1(n). (1883/5) Vote on Amendment No 33 by Georges Dallemagne to insert a recital J/1(n). (1883/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 33) Yes [[8]] Yes No. 118 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 127 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Vote on Amendment No 22 from Alain Top cs on request 1. (1883/2) Vote on Amendment No 22 by Alain Top cs in point 1. (1883/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 34) Yes [[37]] Yes No. [[85]] No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 130 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Vote on Amendment No 23 from Alain Top cs on request 1. (1883/2) Vote on Amendment No 23 by Alain Top cs in point 1. (1883/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 35) Yes [[38]] Yes No. 87 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Vote on Amendment No 24 from Alain Top cs on request 1. (1883/2) Vote on Amendment No 24 by Alain Top cs in point 1. (1883/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 36) Yes [[25]] Yes No. 87 No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 126 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Vote on Amendment No 34 from Georges Dallemagne to insert a request 1/1(n). (1883/5) Vote on Amendment No 34 by Georges Dallemagne to insert a request 1/1(n). (1883/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 37) Yes [[45]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 25 from Alain Top cs on request 2. (1883/2) Vote on Amendment No 25 by Alain Top cs in point 2. (1883/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 38) Yes 36 Yes No. 86 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 127 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Vote on Amendment No 26 from Alain Top cs to insert a request 3/1(n). (1883/2) Vote on amendment No 26 by Alain Top cs to insert a point 3/1(n). (1883/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 39) Yes 44 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Vote on Amendment No 27 from Alain Top cs to insert a request 3/2(n). (1883/2) Vote on amendment No 27 by Alain Top cs to insert a point 3/2(n). (1883/2) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u276	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 28 from Alain Top cs to insert a request 3/3(n). (1883/2) Vote on amendment No 28 by Alain Top cs to insert a point 3/3(n). (1883/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 40) Yes 44 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Vote on Amendment No 29 from Alain Top cs to insert a request 5/1(n). (1883/2) Vote on amendment No 29 by Alain Top cs to insert a point 5/1(n). (1883/2) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u277	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 30 from Alain Top cs to insert a request 6/1(n). (1883/2) Vote on Amendment No 30 by Alain Top cs to insert a point 6/1(n). (1883/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 41) Yes [[26]] Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 16 Abstensions Total 124 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u278	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 42) Yes 88 Yes No. [[21]] No Abstentions 18 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. (1883/6) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. (1883/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u279	Vote on Amendment No 55 by Karin Jiroflée to Article 3. (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 55 by Karin Jiroflée to Article 3. (1875/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 43) Yes 38 Yes No. 79 Non Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 56 by Karin Jiroflée to Article 5. (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 56 by Karin Jiroflée to Article 5. (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? [[Oui]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u280	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 57 by Karin Jiroflée to Article 9. (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 57 by Karin Jiroflée to Article 9. (1875/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 44) Yes 28 Yes No. 79 Non Abstentions 21 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 58 by Karin Jiroflée to Article 10. (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 58 by Karin Jiroflée to Article 10. (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? [[Oui]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u281	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 59 by Karin Jiroflée inserting a Chapter 1BIS (n) under Title 2. (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 59 by Karin Jiroflée to insert a Chapter 1BIS(n) under Title 2. (1875/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Has everyone voted and Check his vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 45) Yes 37 Yes No. 81 Non Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 60 by Karin Jiroflée introducing an article 11/1(n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 60 by Karin Jiroflée to insert an Article 11/1(n). (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one? [[Oui]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u282	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 61 by Karin Jiroflée introducing an Article 11/1(n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 61 by Karin Jiroflée to insert an Article 11/2(n). (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one? [[Oui]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u283	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 62 by Karin Jiroflée introducing an Article 11/3(n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 62 by Karin Jiroflée to insert an Article 11/3(n). (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one? [[Oui]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u284	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 63 by Karin Jiroflée introducing an Article 11/4(n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 63 by Karin Jiroflée to insert an Article 11/4(n). (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one? [[Oui]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u285	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 64 by Karin Jiroflée introducing an Article 11/5(n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 64 by Karin Jiroflée to insert an Article 11/5(n). (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one? [[Oui]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u286	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 65 by David Geerts to insert an Article 28/1(n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 65 by David Geerts to insert an Article 28/1(n). (1875/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Has everyone voted and Check his vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 46) Yes 46 Yes No. 79 Non Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 54 by Monica De Coninck cs to insert a title 2/1(n). (1875/11) Vote on amendment No. 54 by Monica De Coninck cs to insert a title 2/1(n). (1875/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Has everyone voted and Check his vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 47) Yes 38 Yes No. 86 Non Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 127 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 53 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 43/1(n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 53 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 43/1(n). (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one? [[Oui]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u287	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 5 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs on article 48. (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to Rule 48. (1875/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 48) Yes 47 Yes No. 78 Non Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 126 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Mrs Grovonius voted in favour and Mrs Smeyers voted against. Vote on Amendment No 67 by Georges Gilkinet cs on article 49. (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 67 by Georges Gilkinet cs to Rule 49. (1875/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 49) Yes 36 Yes No. 78 Non Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 123 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Mr Mathot and Mr Demeyer and Mrs Özen voted in favour, and Mrs Demir and Mrs Muylle voted against. Collega's, mag ik u vragen goed te volgen. Vote on Amendment No 68 by Georges Gilkinet cs on article 49. (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 68 by Georges Gilkinet cs to Rule 49. (1875/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 50) Yes 46 Yes No. 79 Non Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 49 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 49 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 69 by Kristof Calvo cs on Article 57. (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 69 by Kristof Calvo cs to Rule 57. (1875/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 51) Yes 39 Yes No. 79 Non Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 57 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 57 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 66 by Kristof Calvo cs on Article 58. (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 66 by Kristof Calvo cs to Rule 58. (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? [[Oui]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u288	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 58 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 58 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 6 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs on article 67. (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to Rule 67. (1875/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 52) Yes 41 Yes No. 79 Non Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 7 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 130(n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 130(n). (1875/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 53) Yes 30 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 19 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 8 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 131(n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 131(n). (1875/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 54) Yes [[39]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 9 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs inserting a chapter 11 (n) in Title III. (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert a Chapter 11(n) in Title 3. (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u289	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 10 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 132(n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 132(n). (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u290	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 11 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 133(n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 133(n). (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u291	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 12 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 134(n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 12 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 134(n). (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u292	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 13 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 135(n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 13 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 135(n). (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u293	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 14 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 136(n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 14 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 136(n). (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u294	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 15 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs inserting a chapter 12 (n) in Title 3. (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 15 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert a Chapter 12(n) in Title 3. (1875/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 55) Yes [[45]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 127 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Reason for abstention? Mr Calvo has voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 16 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 137(n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 16 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 137(n). (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u295	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 17 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 138(n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 17 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 138(n). (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u296	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 18 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 139(n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 18 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 139(n). (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u297	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 19 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 140(n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 19 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 140(n). (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u298	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 20 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs inserting a chapter 13 (n) in Title 3. (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 20 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert a Chapter 13(n) in Title 3. (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u299	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 21 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 142(n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 21 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 142(n). (1875/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 56) Yes 49 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u300	Ms Jadin voted against. Vote on Amendment No 22 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 142/1(n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 22 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 142/1(n). (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u301	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 23 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 143(n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 23 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 143(n). (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u302	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 51 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert a chapter15 (n) in Title 3. (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 51 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert a Chapter 15(n) in Title 3. (1875/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Has everyone voted? t checked his vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 57) Yes [[45]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 127 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reasons for abstention? [[No]] (...): I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u303	Whose act, ma'am. Vote on Amendment No 52 from Maya Detiège cs to insert Article 143 (1) (n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 52 by Maya Detiège cs to insert an Article 143/1(n). (1875/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 58) Yes [[46]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 126 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reasons for abstention? [[No]] Mr Dispa voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 24 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs inserting a title IV(n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 24 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert Title IV(n). (1875/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 59) Yes [[41]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reasons for abstention? [[No]] Vote on Amendment No 25 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs inserting a subtitle I (n) in Title IV (n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 25 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert a subheading I(n) in Title IV(n). (1875/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 60) Yes [[39]] Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 126 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reasons for abstention? [[No]] Vote on Amendment No 26 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs inserting a chapter 1 (n) into subtitle I (n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 26 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert a Chapter 1(n) in subtitle I(n). (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that e the result of the previous vote is valid for that vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u304	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 27 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 144n(n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 27 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 144n(n). (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u305	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 28 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 145n(n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 28 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 145n(n). (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u306	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 29 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs inserting a chapter 2 (n) into subtitle I (n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 29 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert a Chapter 2(n) in subtitle I(n). (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u307	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 30 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 146(n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 30 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 146(n). (1875/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Has everyone voted? t checked his vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 61) Yes [[41]] Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 126 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reasons for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u308	Mr President, I abstained.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u309	Of which act, Mr. Brotcorne. Vote on Amendment No 31 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 147(n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 31 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 147(n). (1875/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Has everyone voted? t checked his vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 62) Yes [[39]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reasons for abstention? [[No]] Vote on Amendment No 32 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs inserting a subtitle II(n) in Title IV(n). (1875/11) Vote on amendment No. 32 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert a subheading II(n) in Title IV(n). (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u310	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 33 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs inserting a chapter 1 (n) into subtitle II (n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 33 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert a Chapter 1(n) in subheading II(n). (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u311	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 34 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 148(n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 34 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 148(n). (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u312	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 35 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 149(n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 35 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 149(n). (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u313	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 36 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs inserting a chapter 2 (n) into subtitle II (n). (1875/11) Vote on amendment No 36 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert a chapter 2(n) in subheading II(n). (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u314	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 37 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 150(n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 37 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 150(n). (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u315	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 38 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 151(n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 38 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 151(n). (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u316	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 39 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs inserting a subtitle III(n) in Title IV(n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 39 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert a subheading III(n) in Title IV(n). (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u317	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 40 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs inserting a chapter 1 (n) into subtitle III (n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 40 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert a Chapter 1(n) in Title III (n). (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u318	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 41 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 152(n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 41 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 152(n). (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u319	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 42 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 153(n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 42 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 153(n). (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u320	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 43 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs inserting a chapter 2 (n) into subtitle III (n). (1875/11) Vote on amendment No. 43 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert a chapter 2(n) in subheading III(n). (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u321	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 44 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 154(n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 44 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 154(n). (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u322	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 45 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs inserting a subtitle IV(n) in Title IV(n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 45 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert a subheading IV(n) in Title IV(n). (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u323	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 46 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs inserting a chapter 1 (n) into subtitle IV (n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 46 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert a Chapter 1(n) in subheading IV(n). (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u324	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 47 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 155(n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 47 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 155(n). (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u325	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 48 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 156(n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 48 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 156(n). (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u326	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 49 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs inserting a chapter 2 (n) into subtitle IV (n). (1875/11) Vote on amendment No 49 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert a chapter 2(n) in subheading IV(n). (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u327	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 50 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 157(n). (1875/11) Vote on Amendment No 50 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 157(n). (1875/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the vote previous is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u328	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u329	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 63) Yes 77 Yes No. [[37]] No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 125 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1875/12) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1875/12) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u330	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u331	Colleagues, a few seconds of patience, let's see! Yesterday at 02:00 in the morning, we addressed this issue in front of a particularly well-stocked Chamber. I should like to point out that my group would vote in favour since this is the cause of a socialist initiative, but in my personal capacity I will abstain from protesting against the procedure which was used in the Defence Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u332	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 64) Yes 123 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 126 Total The amendment of the Rules of Procedure has been adopted. It will be published in the Belgian Official Journal. The amendment to the Regulations was adopted. It will be published in the Moniteur belge.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-30-54-plenair-ip118x.u333	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 7 July 2016. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, July 7, 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 7 July 2016 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 7 July 2016 at 2.15 p.m.
