ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, following the succession of committees, there are 52 questions on the agenda. The minister can stay until 6:00 or 6:30. We are going to try to deal with the questions raised as far as possible, because I cannot guarantee that there will be a committee meeting next week with questions, in view of the agenda of the Panama Papers Committee and in view of the Optima Committee, which will also claim its place. In addition, I promised Mr Dedecker that we would deal with a number of proposals next week. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Pivin's report was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u2	Mr President, Minister, this is an old question. There were clues and mainly newspaper clippings, which of course is different from clues, but they get prizes nowadays when they make newspaper clippings, that Luxembourg is again trying to hide lucrative tax deals. It would be mostly oral agreements. Minister, you have already responded, but I would like to know the state of play on this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u3	Mr President, Mr Van Biesen has already given an excellent introduction. Luxembourg is known as a country which is always going to seek it quite far. Now there are oral deals that are concluded with the Luxembourg tax authorities. If that is true, then these are absolutely questionable practices that are contrary to the European directive on tax arrangements and rulings, which should just increase transparency. Minister, you yourself have taken the lead in ensuring greater transparency on tax deals in Belgium. In Luxembourg, the opposite would seem to be going in the opposite direction. However, after LuxLeaks in 2014, they promised to provide more transparency and information on tax arrangements with Belgian companies, but now they would apparently do the opposite. What impact does this have on your fight for correct and equitable taxation? When are you planning a meeting? In the meantime, I assume that you have already had extensive consultations with your Luxembourg colleague on that point. What was the result of that? In what way can this be discussed at international level, because this clearly needs to be investigated? What actions have already been taken and are you planning actions on the basis of them? What commitments did Luxembourg undertake to share information after LuxLeaks and to what extent will information be exchanged with Luxembourg in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u4	Mr President, Minister, to stay in Mr Dedecker's style, I am pleased that he and Mr Van Biesen were in my opening programme. It appears that Luxembourg no longer puts rulings in writing. That way they won't be traceable anymore. External advisors are no longer allowed to bring agreements on paper. In order to increase transparency, this is a very problematic situation. Luxembourg blames you for believing those stories, but sources at the Big Four confirm that they are true. Minister, was this discussed bilaterally? Was this the subject of a discussion, possibly informally, in the margins of the Ecofin Council or at the Ecofin Council? Have you obtained more information from the Big Four offices, so you can hear different bells ringing and get a better view of the problem? Will you perhaps press for a sanction for Luxembourg if you are convinced that there is no respect for the transparency that was agreed with our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u5	Minister, the first La Gaïchel Accords have been signed and the new meeting has just taken place. Will the exchange of information between the two countries take place as foreseen in the first agreements? The government apparently had to reflect on a request from the Grand Duchy for Belgium to reconsider its decision to apply the special reporting obligation. Following these second agreements, what about the exchange of information between the two countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u6	Mr President, fiscal transparency is very important to me and to the government. Belgium was the first EU Member State to start the spontaneous exchange of rulings last year. With the new EU Directive, all Member States will automatically share cross-border rulings with each other as of next year. This Directive is broadly defined and therefore also covers oral rulings. In the tax world there are indeed rumours about a practice of verbal tax agreements in Luxembourg. I directly addressed the Luxembourg Finance Minister, Pierre Gramegna, at the last Ecofin meeting. Minister Gramegna was very formal: Luxembourg will fully comply with the new European rules on the exchange of rulings and does not apply to verbal rulings, des rulings verbaux. He was very clear about that. That is why this discussion is now closed to me. Of course, in this action towards greater transparency, we will continue to follow closely all the movements that occur. However, this discussion is closed for the time being. With regard to Mr Piedboeuf's specific question, the various La Gaïchel Agreements of 5 February 2015 were executed by both countries. As regards the special reporting obligation for payments referred to in Article 307, Belgium has indeed reviewed the measure. Indeed, at its general meeting on 19 and 30 October 2015, the OECD Global Forum on Transparency and Exchange of Information noted Luxembourg's substantially compliant rating. As a result of this new assessment, companies are no longer required to report payments made to persons established in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. The Belgian administration published this information on its website and by the administrative circular of 7 December 2015. To date, the tax administration has obtained, following a request for information addressed to its Luxembourg counterpart, 13 rules relating to Belgian companies and has also spontaneously received 5 rules, of which 1 relates to the transfer price. The Belgian administration has, for its part, spontaneously communicated 2 rules to the competent authority of Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u7	Minister, we will try to follow this as closely as possible. I believe that it is important that we continue to keep an effective eye on Luxembourg with regard to such systems. Of course, people can only take their word for it. If the Luxembourg Minister tells you that he has no knowledge of agreements, then that is what we must assume. In the very interesting special committee Panama Papers we will perhaps encounter such constructions and find that something like this is being done. Then, of course, we can take action again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You said that the Luxembourg Minister was very formal about this and that he said that Luxembourg would abide by the rules and not resort to verbal rulings. Of course, if that rumor is so widespread and if the Big Four of the consultancy firms have a different opinion on it, then it gives us a little doubt as to whether they have any effective knowledge of it. This is all the more reason to keep a sufficiently close eye on companies with branches in Luxembourg or deals with Luxembourg. We must not let these things be watered down. Let us be a little sceptical about this and see what the implementation of the new European rules will bring about in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u9	Minister, vigilance is needed. An oral agreement may be confirmed in writing or a non-binding agreement may be made that something has been agreed orally. So there are many variants possible. If people say that there are no oral agreements, then the question remains whether there are any agreements. The line must be that if there are agreements, they must also be in the exchange system. That's the line you're defending. One can take one's word and another's word, but one must also understand each other's words very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u10	I thank the minister for his response.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u11	The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: 12078 by Mr Vanvelthoven on registration within VIES.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u12	I would like to turn that question into a written question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u13	Debates of the European Parliament 12078 has therefore been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u14	Mr President, Minister, during the Second World War, a number of Belgians unfortunately contributed to the collaboration with the Nazi occupier. Some have even been so engaged to fight alongside the German army and, worse still, within the sinister Waffen-SS. Despite their conviction by the post-war Belgian courts for acts of collaboration, these Belgian citizens still benefit from pensions paid by the German government as "former combatants" within the German troops. Mr Minister, this situation in itself poses an obvious moral difficulty: how is it possible that such collaborators (we are talking about the Waffen-SS) can still be paid by the German authorities today by virtue of their "arms act" within the Nazi forces? Since they are unfortunately Belgian citizens, condemned at the time by our courts, what is Belgium's position on this issue? Have you ever talked about this with your German counterparts? How does Germany justify this affront to history, to the resistors, to all the victims of the Nazi regime and to their successors? What can Belgium do to stop this? I would also point out that this situation is all the more intolerable since in parallel several civilian victims of the war – especially Jewish victims – are still deprived today of compensation pensions for administrative reasons of permanent non-residence in Belgium which are clearly excessive, unjust and absurd. In addition, it appears that the amounts thus paid as a pension by Germany to former Belgian employees remain unknown to the Belgian tax authorities and are therefore not taxed. It seems that Germany does not transmit to Belgium the names of the beneficiaries or the amounts thus paid to them. This leads to a scandalous and surrealistic situation where pensions of former Belgian SS escape tax, but not those of former Belgian prisoners of war in Germany or former resistors! How does the Belgian government justify such indecent fiscal inequity, favouring the executioners to the detriment of the victims? Minister, do you have any estimates of the number of people involved and the amounts involved that are exempt from tax? Is the same problem repeated in similar ways in other European countries or is it a Belgian-German specificity? We regularly vote on bills approving "double taxation agreements", social security conventions or dealing with the exchange of banking data. What do these texts provide for in relation to this type of case? Last but not least, what can Belgium do to stop such a practice? Thank you in advance, Minister, for your answers and clarifications.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u15	Mr Dallemagne, I have already spoken about this in my answers to the questions asked by Mrs Kattrin Jadin on 17 May this year, as well as by Mr Georges Gilkinet on 20 May 2016. With regard to the data on pension payments, I will give the following details: if I do not have the figures on the number of potential beneficiaries of these pensions, this is due to the fact that information on pensions from foreign sources, in general, is transmitted in bulk. In the case of pensions resulting from previous employment, this information does not contain a statement identifying the employer in whose service the employment was previously exercised. This is just as true for pensions of German origin as for pensions from other countries. I can confirm that within the government, we are studying this specific issue that you have mentioned. We will try to get the data as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u16	Minister, the tax issue is only part of the question. Is it normal for these employees to receive pensions? What are your discussions with Germany on this? Have you scheduled any additional conversations with Germany? It is important that we put an end to this type of pension for Nazi collaborators.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u17	We need the information we need to be able to judge.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u18	Beyond the precise information on the number of people, that is the very principle that must be stopped! I hope that the government will send a clear message to Germany on the very principle of such pensions to former employees. It must stop! We need a clear statement from the Belgian Government and that is what I expect from you, Mr Finance Minister. You must deal with this matter without delay.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u19	Minister, according to the figures of the RVA, a total of EUR 291 million of unduly paid benefits would circulate. These benefits concern not only unemployment benefits but also other benefits and are the subject of a preventive policy of the RVA to prevent undue benefits and of a repressive policy of the Justice Department to recover them if they were unduly paid. In a previous parliamentary question to Secretary of State Tommelein in February 2015, I already asked about the recovery of payments from Syrian fighters. According to the RVA, 35 out of 70 Antwerp young people who have been drawn towards Syria would have been wrongly paid benefits. In 2014, the Financial Information Processing Cell reported 12 cases to the Justice Department for a total amount of 172 617 euros. In 2013, it amounted to 168 330 euros. The State Secretary then replied that the recovery was largely through the FPS Finance, outside the own recovery options available to the RVA. I would therefore like to ask you a few questions. Can you clarify whether effective recoveries have already been made on Syria fighters? If yes, for what amount and can an evolution be given for the last three years? Can you also state the state of play regarding the recovery of unduly paid benefits, apart from Syrian fighters, for 2013, 2014 and 2015? Can you tell us whether there are problems today regarding the recovery of unduly paid benefits? Does it run flawlessly? If there are problems, what measures will you take to remedy them?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u20	Mrs Lanjri, as regards your first question, the identity of the Syrian fighters is not known to the General Administration of the Inning and the Recovery. As a result, the files cannot be distinguished from other files and therefore there can be no specific state of play with regard to the recovery requested by you. Your second question concerns the recovery of unduly paid benefits for the years 2013, 2014 and 2015. The administration paid 4.3 million, 3.9 million and 4.5 million respectively to the RVA. Your third question concerns cooperation with the RVA. She's moving fast. Moreover, the RVA is one of the few creditors who transmit their claims digitally, allowing them to be processed automatically and quickly, so that a payment notice is sent immediately and the claim is entered in the tax balance sheet. In addition, regular consultation meetings shall be held at which any problems may be discussed and, if possible, resolved. If the recovery of unduly paid benefits is difficult, this is not due to the working methods or automation, but to the insolvency of the debtor or to the automatic removal or untraceability of the debtor. You should also bear in mind that the General Administration of the Inning and the Recovery will only receive those claims in which the RVA itself has already tried to collect, but has failed to do so. In other words, the claims passed on are almost always dubious.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Firstly, I find it strange that no link can be made because the people concerned are not known. If there is now one group on which we agree that we should keep a close eye on them, then it is the group of terrorists and Syrian fighters. Since I find that the RVA does have that data and the data subjects can well indicate...... in Antwerp, for example, 70 Syrian fighters were well defined.... I find it strange that this could not be done at federal level. I believe that you should inform your services that this information must be kept up to date. Secondly, I note that, unfortunately, almost nothing has been recovered. For this limited group alone, this amounts to EUR 168 000 and EUR 172 000. The amount recovered is actually quite small, unless we can relate that 4.5 million to the number of people. How many people are we talking about? I believe that there is still work to be done on keeping records so that we can make a very good assessment of whether or not these benefits can be recovered. Of course, if those people are no longer here because they are staying in Syria and have not returned, then I understand that recovery is difficult. However, for those who are back on our territory, we must assume not only that they are to be punished, but also that the wrongly paid benefits must be reimbursed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u22	Mr Minister of Finance, the last element in the ARCO file is the opinion of the Advocate General of the Court of Justice of the European Union that the guarantee granted by Belgium to financial cooperatives ARCO violates European Union law. The Advocate General adds that the European Commission has rightly concluded that State aid is prohibited. It therefore confirms the Commission's opinion. On the other hand, it considers that the Union Directive on deposit guarantee schemes does not, in principle, preclude that guarantee, on the understanding that it does not impose it either. This opinion will not facilitate the resolution of the ARCO file, as it is not easy to understand its direct consequences. It is on this subject that I would like to question you, for the many co-operators who wish to know what will be their fate. Can you tell me whether you have read and confirmed the content of the opinion of the Advocate General of the Court of Justice of the European Union, as reported by the press? When will the judgment be final? If its content is confirmed, what will be the consequences for the management of the file? Is the government still looking for a solution within the federal framework? If so, how, at what cost and how? Within which time can clear information be given to the co-operators, many of whom question us on the subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u23	Mr Gilkinet, the Advocate General of the Court of Justice of the European Union is of the opinion that the Belgian guarantee for ARCO's cooperants is contrary to European law. We must now await the final verdict of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which will be given in September. The Government will consider this opinion once the final decision has been communicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u24	That's an answer that leaves me hungry! I understand your caution, since the opinion is not final. To govern, however, is to foresee! We can expect the final judgment to be in line with the opinion of the Advocate General. And you will have to, in one way or another, provide an answer about compensation or not for the ARCO co-operators and who will finance it. The difficulty in this case lies in the lack of clarity, which bothers some and arranges others. In any case, it is really a problem for thousands of people who are concerned and who do not know what will happen to their savings.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u25	Mr President, Minister, this is an important issue because hundreds of thousands of citizens are affected by current and future mortgages. Within the framework of the Basel Committee, it appears that discussions are under way with a view to standardizing the rules on mortgages. A possible standardisation of these rules and a postponement of risk management to borrowers via, in particular, the generalisation of variable rates would, in our view, be particularly damaging for individuals wishing to invest in the purchase of housing, as well as for the construction sector, which provides many jobs in our country when it is not subject to social dumping. More specifically, three measures raised this concern. These are the abandonment of fixed rates (which would make the borrower assume the risk of a rate change), the definition of stricter criteria for the granting of loans (in particular in terms of the borrower's personal contribution, which would be a difficulty for individuals with less initial capital) and, finally, the adoption of a standard risk calculation model (rather than adapted to each situation and leaving each banking institution a certain margin of interpretation). Even if the mortgage credit system in Belgium can be improved and preventive measures must be taken to avoid a future financial crisis, it has at least the merit of not having led to a real estate crisis similar to that experienced in the United States or Spain. This system also supports both access to property for the middle classes and the construction sector. Since Belgium is involved in the Basel Committee via the National Bank of Belgium, I would like to be informed about the state of the negotiations and the position taken by the representatives of our country in this discussion. The transparency of the Committee's work is currently lacking. Minister, can you take stock of the state of the negotiations and the measures on the table on the future of mortgages? Do you confirm that the three measures I have mentioned are well considered? What is the position of the Belgian State in relation to these? How long will the Basel Committee lead to proposals on mortgages? What scope will they have in Belgium? Will these be submitted to our Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u26	Mr. Chairman, Minister, the question was tabled on June 1. As part of the ongoing negotiations within the Basel Committee, which brings together central banks and banking regulators and supervisors from major industrialized countries, a number of recommendations would argue for a further deferral of risk management to borrowers. These would include the introduction of a general use of the variable rate in the granting of mortgages. In today's L'Echo, a very interesting article was published about the problem we are talking about. At present, the majority of Belgian consumers buy their home at a fixed interest rate, determined as soon as the contract is signed. Indeed, the latter fear that a variable rate may, in the event of an upward trend, lead them in situations of impossibility of repayment. Other measures also envisaged in this Committee include the introduction of stricter criteria for the granting of loans, the requirement for a personal contribution from the borrower higher than at present, or the substitution of tailor-made lending solutions within banks, in favour of a standardised risk calculation model. Mr Minister, what is Belgium's position in the negotiations within the Basel Committee, and in particular on the proposal for a postponement of risk management to borrowers by the possible abolition of fixed rates? What is the status of the negotiations? When will the recommendations proposed by the Committee be formally adopted?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u27	Mr President, Mr Minister, as my colleagues have mentioned, it would appear that, in the course of its work, the Basel Committee is currently working on a plan to generalize variable rates for loans issued in the context of real estate transactions. The prospect of such a change is a matter of concern. Indeed, in our country, a very large proportion of citizens buy their homes with a fixed interest rate for their mortgage credit. As you know, this model helps to limit the collateral effects of financial markets and, therefore, to prevent monthly repayments from reaching too high levels. Nevertheless, a number of citizens choose variable rates based on their own financial situation and calculations. While it is not for me to decide on the personal choices of each individual, it nevertheless seems to me important that banking agencies continue to offer a plurality of products, in order to meet the specific needs of their customers. Minister, can you confirm the information that the Basel Committee is currently studying the introduction of a generalization of variable rates in mortgages? If so, can you tell us whether this approach is binding on our country? What is the Belgian Government's position on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Basel Committee, an international consultation body bringing together supervisory authorities and central banks worldwide, establishes by consensus harmonised requirements and standards for banking regulation. These standards are then transposed into binding regulations, in this case for the European Union by means of a directive and/or regulation applicable to all European banks. The National Bank is represented by the Governor on the Basel Committee. Several staff and specialists from the National Bank participate in various technical groups. The Basel Committee contributes, in the broader context of the implementation of the Basel III regulatory framework, which has strengthened and extended prudential standards for banks after the financial crisis, to improve the consistency and consistency of bank capital requirements. It is from this perspective that the Basel Committee intends to arrive at a final version of the Basel III framework, which is now known as "Bale III and a half" by the end of the year. An important milestone in the banking regulatory framework will thus be achieved. Subsequently, the attention of standardisation bodies and supervisory authorities should focus on the practical implementation of the entire regulatory framework rather than on the development of additional standards. One of the measures currently under consideration is the revision of the standard approach for the calculation of own funds requirements for credit risk. Once in its final form, this revised standard approach could be used to establish a minimum level - a floor - for capital requirements, calculated on the basis of internal models. As part of its work, the Basel Committee held a public consultation in December 2015. A document presenting the preliminary proposals is available on the website of the Bank for International Settlements. In addition, a targeted quantitative questionnaire was submitted to a sample of banks in a two-pronged approach: first, to analyse the impact of the preliminary proposals on banks' own funds requirements and, second, to collect the data that will be useful for final calibration. It should be noted, however, that the Basel Committee is required to propose a framework that does not lead to a further significant increase in capital requirements. As mentioned earlier, the development of the Basel standards is scheduled for the end of this year. Their transposition into European regulations and their entry into force in European banks will certainly take a few years. We can even say that they will certainly not take effect before 2019. Their adaptation will most likely be phased in several phases. The new proposal for a standard approach to the capital requirement for housing loans is more risk-sensitive than the existing framework. Its sizing could also have an impact on banks' capital requirements. The risk weighting, which is a determining factor in this respect, will depend on the loan-to-value ratio, which compares the amount of the loan granted to the value of the underlying real estate at the date of the conclusion of the loan. The smaller its amount relative to the value of the underlying property, the more limited the credit risk associated with it, all other things being equal. Where appropriate, banks will be required to maintain a higher level of own funds for housing loans with a high loan-to-value ratio. The idea of banning housing loans at a fixed interest rate or subjecting them to higher capital requirements is not under discussion in the Basel Committee as part of this reform. The fixed or variable nature of interest rates would not influence the calculation of capital requirements in the standard method. Banks will also continue to be able to use their internal models to calculate own funds requirements for credit risk inherent in residential loans. However, these requirements will be linked to a minimum level, calculated on the basis of the standard approach, not based on internal models. This will reduce the possibility of arbitration and ensure that banks retain sufficient levels of own resources for these activities. Finally, it should be noted that the National Bank of Belgium, as a macro-prudential authority, closely monitors developments in the real estate market in general and the adequacy of capital requirements for housing loans in particular. In the context of the persistent vulnerability of Belgian banks since 2013, the BNB has taken steps to increase banks' capital reserves in order to cope with unfavourable developments in the real estate market. It also encourages banks to ensure that sound lending practices are maintained on an ongoing basis. These measures will be reviewed in the light of the above-mentioned revision of the capital requirements by the Basel Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u29	Minister, thank you for this very comprehensive answer on a very important issue, given its impact on housing policy for families and the economy. We have time, the decision is not very close, but we need to influence the process as soon as possible. Among the three risks I have mentioned, you are mainly referring to the risk associated with the provision of equity by borrowers. I think it must be specifically recognised that when investing in housing, there is a residual value that can justify a lower capital injection, which must be recognised in the context of future mortgage policy. You believe that there are not too many risks with respect to maintaining fixed rates or applying specific rules. I invite you to pay real attention to the development of this issue. Perhaps in six months or a year, it would be useful to hold hearings with representatives of the National Bank who are discussing these future rules that will apply to all banks, so as to maintain the mortgage system as it exists to the greatest satisfaction of many of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u30	Minister, I can only abound in the same direction as my colleague Gilkinet. I also share the same concerns, particularly with regard to the provision of own funds. I understand, of course, that at some point there is a need to regulate and have greater severity with regard to the banking sector with regard to their reserves, drawing lessons from the past. However, this should not be done on the backs of those who wish to acquire housing, invest and have a value that, until now, has been described as safe. It is often said that the Belgian has a brick in his stomach. Will that still be the case tomorrow? I think we absolutely need to follow up on this. For example, hearing the National Bank about the development of this issue seems to me a very good idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u31	I will reply very briefly to the thanks of my colleagues and to their concerns. We will keep an eye on the development of this issue. I think that, indeed, hearings in a few months' time could be useful to shed light on the Belgian position in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u32	Es ist ein ganz wichtiges Thema! Minister, following the recent changes in the drafting of this year's new tax return 2016, adjustments to the German version of the normal tax declaration and the practical guide had to be made. Many of my fellow citizens make the observation to me. They are not happy, I think rightly, not to have received their tax returns but to have received them with a significant lag. Compared to the deadlines for submitting his paper statement, this is a problem. Indeed, as at 31 May, these documents had not yet been sent to the persons concerned. Given, Minister, that the paper tax return was to have been issued by June 30, the 30-day time limit for citizens to complete their return could not, therefore, be acquired. Minister, can you inform me of the date on which German-speaking citizens will be able to receive their normal tax declaration and the practical guide in German? Are you planning an extension of the deadline to ensure that they have the legal time to complete and submit the return in hard copy? Does this delay in transmissions affect other parts of the country? If so, have there also been extensions of time limits?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u33	Mrs Jadin, as regards your first question, the answer is as follows: the declarations, including explanatory notes, were filed on 7 June. Currently, bpost has 4 days to proceed with the distribution. Although these returns mention a subscription deadline fixed on June 30, the resident taxpayer of the German-speaking region in fact automatically has a period of one month from the date of receipt.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u34	You had to say it! We had to communicate about it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u35	The instructions have been given to the appropriate department, but I will check. You should be aware that the time limit for filing this declaration is always at least one month from the date of sending the declaration. My services are making every effort to send the returns in time, so that a postponement is not necessary. However, if the declarations were to be sent late, they would take into account the minimum time limit set by law. The answer to the first part of your second question is no. The second part therefore does not arise.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u36	Minister, thank you very much for the clarity of your answer. I said this, interrupting you, which is not polite on my part, but I really think that we need a clearer and more direct communication. There's been a lot of panic, because we're in a time when people start going on vacation. They do not know very well what to do also in relation to certain complications that may arise when filling out statements. Even your department on the spot didn't necessarily have a clear answer. If I have to ask the question here, there was no answer. In any case, I will communicate yours
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u37	Mr President, Minister, my question concerns the situation of married couples of pensioners whose spouses are forced to leave the home to live in a retirement home. To put the problem in perspective, I take the example of a husband who receives a pension of 1,600 euros gross per month or 19,200 euros per year. The wife has no income. As long as they live together, by applying the marital quotient, this couple is not subject to tax. If the wife is obliged to go to live in a retirement home, while the husband remains at home, the question is whether both are considered to be fiscally isolated. If this is the case, the husband's income no longer benefits from the marital quotient and, for the income mentioned above, it is subject to an annual tax of EUR 2,395.55 (tax year 2016, including an additional municipal tax of 8.5%). Minister, when one of the members of a couple goes to live in a retirement home, are spouses taxed as isolated? If so, do you not consider this abnormal tax treatment, since it would seriously penalize a couple already faced with the significant costs of a retirement home?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u38	Mr President, Mr Van Hees, in principle, if it appears from the factual circumstances that a spouse's state of health has caused a permanent breakdown of the household, the spouse's placement in a retirement home, while the other spouse continues to live at home, is considered to be a de facto separation. The spouses will then be taxed separately from the year following that of this placement in a retirement home and the spouses will no longer be entitled to benefit from the marital quotient. In such a case, the spouse's investment expenses in a retirement home will be deductible from the other spouse's taxable income as a support pension on the terms and within the limits provided for in the other spouse's taxable income. This implies, in particular, that these costs are paid on the basis of the spouse's own income and that the spouse placed in a retirement home does not have sufficient means to bear these costs himself.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u39	Minister, thank you for that answer, which brings with it other questions. To what extent are the conditions you list met? What about sufficient means if, for example, a wealth is available to households? Is it considered that the means are sufficient? I will have the opportunity to ask you further questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u40	Mr Minister, last March the Court of Auditors published a report on the collection of inheritance rights by the FPS Finances, on which various colleagues have already asked you. A conclusion from the report states: "At present, the control of inheritance rights is generally limited to a comparison between the amounts declared by the heirs and the data available within the administration. The means of investigation available to the administration are scarce and thorough checks are rare and selected without a defined methodology. These routine controls do not allow the administration to effectively combat fraud that may occur in large or complex successions." This conclusion tends to reinforce the principle that, as in other tax areas, our country is a tax haven for the richest and a tax hell for the common taxpayer. The latter pay inheritance taxes on their real estate, which could be described as the poor's property, which is the subject of a cadastre. On the other hand, movable (especially financial) assets, the wealthiest, are not subject to any cadastre, even if such a cadastre exists latently in the banks' and insurance companies' files and would be easily feasible, according to a former governor of the National Bank. Why not set up a cadastre of all the fortunes, securities and real estate, which would effectively combat inheritance tax fraud and other forms of tax fraud, and which would facilitate the introduction of a tax on major assets, whose surveys show that it is supported by a very large majority of the population, including among the electorate of your party, the N-VA?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u41	Generally speaking, an estate includes movable and/or real estate assets. When the estate is of a real estate nature, it is well known to the tax administration. Indeed, the essential mission of the general administration of the Heritage Documentation is the maintenance and updating of the real estate heritage. As far as estates are concerned, significant progress should be made shortly. Program Bill 1875 contains a provision amending section 100 of the Code of Succession Rights. In future, officials of the General Administration of the Heritage Documentation will be able to contact the central contact point of the National Bank of Belgium in order to obtain information. These will be used to verify all existing bank accounts at the time of death. In addition, this information should be used to verify banks' reporting requirements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u42	I remember that in the program law that we discussed not long ago. I think there is no automaticity in this mechanism. The problems raised by the Court of Auditors in its study, namely that automatic tricks do not work, come back to us. There is a need for very few public servants, as we know, to take special steps. In my view, a real estate cadastre where there would be a simple and direct consultation and where they would have all the data at once would be much more effective in the fight against inheritance tax fraud, in addition to the other benefits that it would have.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u43	This issue is being dealt with in the Panama Papers Committee, but we cannot prevent you from asking it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u44	We are not lucky enough to have the minister in committee every week.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u45	This is a topic that we have dealt with well in recent months.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u46	This is a precise assembly. I don't know if you can answer my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u47	I have an answer to give you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u48	Minister, I would like to hear your opinion on a specific case of tax montage. It is a Belgian citizen, a Belgian tax resident, who holds an account in a Luxembourg bank, for example. He also opened a securities account in that bank and asked the bank to acquire shares of a particular company, for example, from the British Virgin Islands. It is an offshore company subject to zero corporate tax. The Belgian citizen owns the shares of the company which he once formed. On the advice of a Belgian heritage organizer – we have not yet discovered, in the Panama Papers commission, who organizes this kind of thing, but we may know one day – he buys a single premium life insurance called a dedicated fund, from one of the Luxembourg companies specializing in this type of product. The payment of the single premium is the contribution of the securities account on which the shares of the offshore company located in the British Virgin Islands are recorded. The contribution therefore consists of the value of the shares. And, at the end of the contract, the value of the capital from which he will benefit is the value of the shares present on the securities account. I imagine that the value of these actions will have evolved in the meantime. I have three questions about this montage. Who is the economic beneficiary of the offshore located in the British Virgin Islands (which company also continues its non-taxable offshore activity)? Is the provisions of Article 344(1) of the Income Tax Code applicable if one of the elements of the transaction described occurred after the entry into force of the new provisions of Article 344(1)? How should this be reported in relation to the reporting obligations relating to foreign accounts, foreign life insurance contracts and the beneficiary or constituent of an offshore company covered by the reporting provision?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u49	Mr Van Hees, firstly, in the absence of all the elements of law and fact specific to the case in question, it is impossible for me to determine who is the economic beneficiary. My answers to your other two questions will be more extensive. Second, section 169, paragraph 1, of the Program Act of 29 March 2012 provides that new section 345 of the Income Tax Code 1992 applies from the 2013 tax year. This provision is commented on by several circulars, the references of which you will find in the written version of my reply. Therefore, if the legal act or last act forming part of a series of legal acts constituting the same transaction was committed by the natural person from 2012, Article 344 may apply. In the present case, it is therefore sufficient that the act or last act has taken place from 2012. It does not matter whether all the acts took place during a period that began before the new law came into force. The same reasoning applies to the application of the new Article 344 as regards the transparency tax from 2015. If the examination of all the elements of law and fact specific to the case leads to the conclusion that the contracts signed prevent the application of the transparency tax referred to in Article 5/1 of IARC 92 to the revenues collected by the legal construction, the administration may still investigate whether a simulation or tax abuse is involved and whether the contracts in question are, therefore, well enforceable against it. In addition, account must be taken of the possible application of article 505 of the Criminal Code with regard to assets brought into the society in question. Third, the natural person living in the Kingdom must, in accordance with the provisions of Article 307 of IARC 92, mention three informations in his declaration to the tax of natural persons. First, it must indicate the existence of accounts of any kind held by the taxpayer at any time during the taxable period with a foreign bank or foreign exchange, credit or credit institution and the country or countries in which the accounts were opened. Second, the existence of individual life insurance contracts concluded by the taxpayer with an insurance undertaking established abroad and the country or countries in which its contracts were concluded. Third, the existence and other prescribed data in relation to a legal construction of which the taxpayer must be considered either as a founder or as a third party beneficiary on the basis of legal and regulatory provisions. In addition, the taxpayer should be reminded of the obligation to communicate to the central contact point of the National Bank, at the latest at the same time as the entry of the declaration containing the statements of the existence of foreign accounts, the numbers of those accounts, the name of the bank, foreign exchange, credit or savings institution and the country or countries in which those accounts were opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u50	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response. In your written answer, you add some elements. I will examine this answer in detail and eventually come back with additional questions. Your answer to the first question, or rather his absence, amazes me a little, but I'll see, maybe it makes sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u51	Your questions increasingly concern hypothetical cases. Do you ensure social permanences, like traditional politicians?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u52	Mr President, these are not hypothetical cases. And unlike some colleagues, I have no activity next door!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u53	Rather, this topic should be the subject of a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u54	Mr President, this is not a single case but many cases. Minister, my question is of a general nature. All pensioners in a certain income group face the problem of Article 154 of the Income Tax Code, which provides for an additional tax reduction. Pensioners or beneficiaries of replacement income are, in fact, even if I assume that this is not the aim, to apply a marginal rate of taxation of 100%, and even more than 100% if account is taken of the additional municipal income. This article 154 is based on the following formula, which is rather complicated. This is the difference between the tax remaining after the previous operations, less the difference between annual income and an amount of EUR 15 518.54 for the financial year 2015, i.e. the amount fixed for certain unemployment benefits. In applying this formula, the effect is to keep the net salary constant for a certain gross amount. A pensioner has 15,600 euros. If his income has increased by 100 euros, his net will remain the same after paying his taxes. If we increase it by 300 euros, its net will always remain the same, up to 16,761 euros in taxes. And if we count additional communals, it will be even worse, since when its crude increases, its net will decrease! It's still strong! All pensioners between €15,518 and €16,761 per year are subject to this marginal rate above 100%. Minister, do you confirm the existence of this problem? How many taxpayers are involved? This will no longer be a personal case but a global problem. Do you not think that such a rate, which exceeds 100%, can be considered a confiscatory rate? What are you planning to do to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u55	Mr Van Hees, first of all, the additional tax reduction provided for in Article 154 of the Income Tax Code of 1992 does not have the effect of "maintaining the net wage for a gross wage between EUR 15 518 and EUR 16 761". It applies only to taxpayers whose overall taxable income consists solely of pensions or replacement income. In practice, it mainly concerns individual pensioners with low taxable income. For income up to a reference income fixed according to the nature of the income, Article 154 provides for an additional reduction which reduces the tax due to zero. To prevent a minimal excess of reference income from entailing a very high tax, section 154 provides for a gradual reduction in the additional tax reduction. The effect of this measure is that if the reference income is exceeded, the State tax will not be higher than the part of the income that exceeds that reference income. Given the limited time allowed for an oral question, it is impossible to provide an adequate response within the time allowed. It should be noted that as of the 2016 tax year, this number of cases will be very limited given the legislative change in this area. From the 2016 tax year onwards, the additional reduction shall be increased by 9 % to take account of the additional municipal income, so that an increase in pensions or replacement income other than unemployment benefits should not, in principle, lead to an effective reduction in net income.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u56	Minister, do I have to conclude from your answer that its written version would contain more information, as was the case with my other question?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u57	Mr. Van Hees, I'll try to get them to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u58	If it's about the cause of the problem, I know it. I was trying to find a solution. You're telling me that as of fiscal year 2016, we were going to reduce the number of cases, but you didn't tell me what their current number was. It would still be interesting to know. As I understand it, the legislative amendment will remove a net negative. There will therefore be a neutralisation of the municipal tax. It's already a good thing. However, the marginal rate will be 100 per cent and not more than 100 per cent. That's the problem. You tell us that this concerns only pensioners who are taxed in isolation. It's still a number of people, even though you haven't told me how many. I think it's interesting to know how many of them are. It is not unusual to know that an increase in gross income leads to a status quo of net income. This is why a technical solution is desirable, even if it is not easy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u59	Mr President, Minister, you have signed with your former colleague, Bart Tommelein, a social and fiscal charter with the Horeca sector. While my information is correct, this is mainly concerned with checks to verify the presence in establishments of the so-called "smart funds" which are supposed to combat VAT fraud. In one of your communications, you argued that the conclusion of this charter was made following consultation with the sector. The HoReCa Wallonie Federation, for its part, claims that no consultation took place. Minister, can you explain in detail the content of this charter with the Horeca sector and tell us more about the consultation that took place prior to the conclusion of this agreement? In whose presence did it take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u60	Mr President, Mr Crusnière, in execution of the horeca plan as part of the introduction of the cash register system in the sector, a charter with the tax and social inspection services aims to optimize the relationship of trust and mutual respect between the owners of the horeca and the inspection services. This charter consists of a social and fiscal component and focuses on the following topics: preventive and self-monitoring actions, practical introduction of a cash register, selection and detection of files, organisation of control actions, monitoring and evaluation. Rather than imposing new commitments or obligations on the sector, this charter establishes the framework within which inspections and controls take place, both socially and fiscally. This tool is capital and completely new, at least at the tax level, thus making the sector much more transparent. Pending the new royal decree setting the target group for the use of a cash register system, the provisions of the charter were negotiated and agreed with the three major federations of the Horeca and Comeos. An annual evaluation is also planned. This will allow each party to make proposals for improvement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u61	Minister, thank you for your answers. Have these three federations signed the charter?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u62	I think so. I'll check it and let you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u63	That's nice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u64	Minister, this discussion has already been held in part with the Prime Minister. However, it is important to check exactly what is going on, because the Debt Agency here in the Finance Committee said that it is mainly a problem of perception. As you know, it was my great fear that Belgium would become isolated and not belong to the coalition of the willing. Slovenia began to doubt us, which put us in a difficult position. Apparently, the exoneration of pension funds has been maintained for a long time, but solutions have been found for this. It seems interesting to me to know what the final result has become, including for the derived products. Indeed, you hold on to the exoneration of most of the derived products. I would have liked you to give me an update. What decisions have already been adopted? What is still under discussion?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u65	Mr President, I found Mr Deseyn's speech on this subject more fun in plenary. This is something we are waiting for you at the turn of the day, Minister and the government as a whole. We regret, moreover, that Belgium is part of this grouping of ten countries wishing to achieve a tax on financial transactions, and that you are still the one who, on behalf of the Belgian Government, is putting a brake on this essential issue. A recent study by the European Commission, quoted in a Belga dispatch yesterday, pointed out that a financial transaction tax could raise between 20 and 22 billion euros per year. This is an estimate by the European Commission cited by the AFP. The difficulty lies in the fact that you want to exclude financial transactions, a series of products and in particular derivatives. These constitute two thirds of the financial transactions concerned. So we would have done all this for so little! I really regret your lack of voluntarism in this matter, but beware of me! Minister, can we make a statement of the situation? What position did you defend on behalf of the Belgian Government at the last ECOFIN Councils? What was the decision at this level in terms of timing? It seems to me that the decision-making process is constantly delayed, while the deadline is set for September. What are the next important steps to be taken in this area and on what agenda? Can you mislead me about my pessimism about the outcome of this important issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u66	Mr President, Mr Deseyn, Mr Gilkinet, Belgium's position on this dossier remains unchanged. At no time has Belgium threatened to leave the negotiating table. As I said earlier, the coalition agreement is always the reference framework for the negotiations on the FTT. The government agreement................................................................................................................................................................. As the Debt Agency has already described in detail to this Commission, the exclusion of future and interest rate swaps aims to avoid a negative impact on the financing of public debt. The point of view I defended on June 16 is that of the government. This case was referred to the previous day in the Kern where I was present. This view was confirmed and it was with this mandate that I visited the meeting on 16 June. At the meeting of 16 June 2016, it was agreed to set up two working groups. The first working group will focus on the principle that the FTT should not have an impact on government debt financing on derivatives. The second working group will examine how the collection of the FTT can be done in the most cost-effective way possible. This is particularly the case at the request of smaller countries such as Slovenia and Slovakia. They fear that, in their particular case, the cost of collecting the tax will ultimately be greater than the revenue. In September we will look at the results of these two working groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u67	Minister, I am particularly looking forward to the outcome of the first working group. A German study has shown that there are few distorting effects on public debt because the proceeds will compensate. To say that there should be no impact is a high ambition. I do not think we should faint; there will always be an impact. The concern of the Debt Agency was mainly about the liquidity position. Maybe the proceeds, including public finances, can compensate. However, I'm afraid that "no impact" is a very rigid position. We shall see what the conclusions of these working groups are. Hopefully, they will soon be able to present a final report so that next steps can be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u68	Minister, I have already described your attitude and that of the government as hypocrites. The term may be a little strong, but at the very least it is a lack of vision. I really feel like you're looking for all the arguments not to move forward, when you say that's your intention. So there is a huge contradiction. The list of exceptions you are asking for is far too long. You do not envisage the idea that if this mechanism had an impact on the cost of debt, the revenues obtained by Belgium and by all other States, via the tax on financial transactions, would be higher than the cost of debt, and, above all, that the tax on financial transactions would have positive virtues on the slowing down of speculation. That is what I think is biased in your reasoning. I ask you to return to a more proactive attitude on behalf of Belgium in the case. I will ask you again because there is no need to hope for an undertaking, even though I have been able to see that you were quite constant in your wrong arguments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u69	Mr van Biesen, I didn't know you were interested in this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u70	Mr President, apparently I can always surprise you. I would have expected Mr Deseyn, in view of his statements on the tobin tax for cameras, to have given up a little of what he had said, not only with regard to the Minister but also with regard to his fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u71	Please keep to the subject of the question, Mr Van Biesen. It's about counterfeit cigarettes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u72	Mr President, Minister, I will keep to the question. Last year, we watched customs destroy 98.5 million counterfeit cigarettes. Meanwhile, a KPMG report on the consumption of these illegal cigarettes was published in 2015. On the one hand, a slight decrease was observed in a comparison from an international study across Europe, Norway and Switzerland. On the other hand, there is an increase in the illicit whites, the cheap white cigarettes. How's evolution today? How are we trying to stop the rise in Illicit whites? In 2013 and 2014, there were illegal tobacco factories in our country. Some of them could have been closed. What are the specific penalties for this illegal trade? In the margins of our visit at the time, the customs officer made it clear that they wanted to resell the illicit whites on the market. Are those cigarettes actually being sold again? A year ago, you replied to a parliamentary question that you thought the sale had been restricted. I don't think it's right for customs to sell counterfeit cigarettes. In addition, the customs operation is largely carried out in cooperation with tobacco manufacturers. They are sponsoring a large part of the customs activity in this area in order to get the illegal cigarettes out of trade. What's the situation a year later? What are the penalties? Were there any factories discovered? Has customs stopped selling? I would like to know a little more about this, a year after we join together in the destruction of 98 million counterfeit cigarettes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u73	Mr Van Biesen, when there is a final court ruling on the confiscation of seized goods, these goods become the property of the Belgian State. The recipient of Customs and Excise may then give a destination to the forfeited goods. He can sell them publicly or he can destroy them, for example in the case of prohibited goods or when they cannot be legally placed on the market because, for example, they are no longer suitable for consumption. Where it appears before the confiscation that goods are no longer suitable for consumption, the recipient may give early destination to the goods. For the cigarettes seized in 2015, this will most likely be the case and will be destroyed. Illicit whites are imported without declaration. The smuggling of cigarettes, like any other smuggling, is punishable by the general law on customs and excise duties with a prison sentence of four months to one or five years. Cigarettes for which public sales may be considered shall be examined for compliance with Belgian legislation on suitability for human consumption and labelling. This examination is carried out by batch of cigarettes which could possibly be sold. The causes of the increase in the illicit trade in cheap whites have not yet been specifically investigated by customs. However, customs notes that the share of cheap whites in the total number of seized cigarettes increased significantly in 2015 compared to 2014. The fight against the illicit trade of excise goods, including tobacco products, has always been a priority for customs, and it is still a priority today. Research carried out by Europol shows that a significant part of the financing of terrorism comes from the sale of illegal cigarettes. The focus is on the identification of large-scale and organised fraud. The task is to stop the fraud as quickly as possible and to minimise the damage to the treasury. I have on paper an overview of measures included in the anti-fraud plan. If you agree, I will not go over all these measures in detail. You can read them in the written text of the answer, which I hand over to you. In 2012, there were remarkable seizures by customs of so-called illicit whites, with the main brands Hippo, em@il, Jin Ling, Richman, Manchester and Capital. A pack of iliccit white cigarettes often looks real, even with the necessary health warnings and everything on top. However, these packages are sold at a very low price and it is also about brands unknown to the consumer. The illicit whites seized in Belgium in 2015 were mainly produced in the United Arab Emirates, Russia, Italy, China and Vietnam. On 27 August 2015, in Zele, East Flanders, a warehouse was discovered that was used by an international criminal organisation engaged in the illicit production of cigarettes. Punishments, pronounced against known perpetrators, are effectively enforced. Slim imports of cigarettes are a serious criminal offence punishable by a penalty of imprisonment of four months to five years, the payment of five to ten times the evaded rights and, of course, the forfeiture of the goods in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u74	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and also the customs authorities for their continued and repeated efforts in this area. We have expressed our concern by noting that the number of Illicit whites is increasing. We must also draw attention to this. Mr President, I do not really share the customs position on the Illicit whites. Although everything falls within the legal framework, I find it very strange that counterfeit products, cheaper products made in illegal factories in the United Arab Emirates and stored in Zele, are sold by customs themselves. In this context, I would like to place the deontology in comparison with the small yield that such a sale produces. That is why I propose that you ask your administration what the actual yield is. I would prefer to see the destruction of those articles, which would give us a little more deontological comfort. Today you say that customs will be given the green light to bring these articles back to the market, but I do not think that this is the intention. I would therefore ask you, in some way or other, to include some form of deontology, rather than stick to the purely mercantilistic situation that such products can be sold to third parties through customs webshops. That seems to me to be a little useful activity. Eventually, hours of research are being conducted to catch the perpetrators. If then the products are simply sold, then that does not seem deontologically correct to me. I would ask you to pay particular attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u75	Mr President, Minister, on June 6th, you went to New York to take advantage of the opportunity to meet with many foreign investors as well as with the leaders of several multinationals at various round tables organized in the framework of international transatlantic economic forums. The aim announced by your department was, on the one hand, to improve Belgium's coat of arms by placing it on the map of global financial centres and, on the other hand, to highlight the investment opportunities offered by our country with regard to various financial products, including pension funds. Minister, my questions about this are as follows. What first lessons do you learn from your meeting with foreign investors in New York and their confidence in the current investment climate in Belgium? Are you planning to undertake similar initiatives in the near future to promote our country's potential to foreign investors? If so, can you already inform me of the countries concerned and of the timetable for your next visits?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u76	Madame Jadin, my visit to New York had three main objectives. First, the explanation of the tax shift, its importance and the improvement of the investment climate for a number of on-site investors. Secondly, with regard to the role of the Brussels financial centre, I spoke with the heads of several pension funds. We have an attractive climate for so-called pan-European pension funds. I think this is very interesting for us because if these pension funds run their business from Brussels, they bring a lot of human capital, a lot of know how in the financial sector in its broad sense. This can therefore help us to develop the Brussels financial centre. Thirdly, which was for me the most interesting aspect, I met Belgian entrepreneurs present in New York, a total of ten. I asked them why they left Belgium, whether it was Louvain-la-Neuve, Ghent or any city. In my great naivety, I thought they would tell me about the technological environment or the starting capital for companies. No, I don't. The answer that came back at least nine times out of ten was the growth capital, the capital available (or not) that entrepreneurs need after their beginnings to really develop their business. I think it is important to realize that we do not lack, in Europe or Belgium, seed capital, starting capital for entrepreneurs, but that there is probably a problem in terms of growth capital. From the moment the company really starts to grow, and to have additional capital needs, that's where we have, if I can say so, "a hole in our system". So I immediately asked some staff in the firm to study the reasons, because before we can act, we have to know the causes. So there are entrepreneurs, especially in the technology sector, in different branches, who leave Belgium at a time when their company is almost ready to become "a real company". These are the three things I discovered there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u77	Minister, thank you for your answers and, above all, your appreciation. Of course, I encourage you to continue in this direction. I think if we managed to get expatriate entrepreneurs back to our country, it would be a good thing. Beyond that, more attractiveness for new investments in our country is always good to take.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u78	Mr President, Mr Minister, since 1 January, an amendment to the Coordinated Convention establishing the Belgo-Luxembourg Economic Union has adapted the definition of eligible Belgian municipalities to the flat-rate compensation, which aims to ensure the financing of Belgian municipalities with a significant number of residents working in Luxembourg. For example, only those municipalities for which the additional tax fictitious to the personal tax (IPP) represents more than 5% of all the additional taxes to the IPP can now benefit from this compensation. This decision, however, is not without consequences for the budgetary balance of a number of municipalities, including German-speaking ones, which include among their residents many cross-border workers to Luxembourg but which no longer fall under the same conditions. And this is all the more so since the budget allocated to these compensations was increased to EUR 30 million for 2015, instead of the EUR 18 million allocated in 2014. In short, this agreement is good because it gives more means to achieve compensation, but the distribution that is made in relation to the new criteria leaves a large number of communes on the tile for sums which, depending on the size of the commune, can be very important. For my commune, Eupen, between 200 and 250 000 euros, this is not a negligible amount. Minister, my questions about this are as follows. Can you inform me in more detail about the number of municipalities involved in the new flat-rate compensation and the breakdown of the budget allocated by local entity? Are there any other measures which will enable the municipalities concerned by the problem of residents working in Luxembourg, but which no longer fully fulfil the new conditions imposed to receive some form of compensation, to be considered within your services? Will the convention be adapted or not in line with the observations made by making it more balanced?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u79	Mrs Jadin, I think I have some good news for you. The response was prepared prior to the government's decision at the end of last week to reduce the threshold from 5% to 3%. We discussed this on Monday with our Luxembourg partners because, in principle, they must agree with this change. As for the 30 million, that does not change. So we're gonna get a raise. I can give you the details later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u80	Anyway, that's very good news. I didn't expect it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u81	I'm glad I made at least one person happy today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u82	Minister, I would be interested to have more information on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u83	We have the data. I'll pass them on to you with the number of communes and even the names if you want.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u84	It is good that the rulings are published, as the ruling committee should not become an additional legislative chamber. When some of the published rulings are assessed against the legislator's initiatives, questions sometimes arise. This also applies to the tax shelter ruling for start-ups, which provides that this can also be organised through the certification of shares of the target company. I will follow my text quite literally, because it is rather complicated. Indeed, if the certificate holder is considered to be a direct investor in the target company, that person may benefit from the tax favor regime. The existing legislation speaks of a direct and indirect way to subscribe to the issue of shares of a start-up. At present, only the direct way is possible, since for the indirect way the financial regulation must therefore be developed through crowdfunding platforms and start-up funds, in consultation with the FSMA. Some creatives have found an opportunity to combine direct subscription with a collective organised system, without having to go through a crowdfunding platform or a starter fund. They have proposed to the ruling service to subscribe to the shares of a start-up through a company, which does so in its own name but on behalf of the investors. In this way, investors do not acquire the shares by name, but rather the certificates representing the shares. The ruling service justifies that on the basis of Article 503 of the Company Code and the Law of 15 July 1998. It is noteworthy that the issuer of the certificates will act as the director of the target company. This is contrary to the conditions of the tax shelter scheme in which managers are excluded, but according to the ruling service this is not fulfilled in this case. The service argues that at no time will there be an involvement of the group of investors in the conduct of the target company, because the issuer is the manager and not the investors themselves. Minister, this completely ignores the will of the legislator, who says that an indirect subscription to shares of a start-up should be done through a recognised platform or fund. In addition, there is also a lack of grounds for excluding managers. I think that is a very fascinating arrangement. Mr Minister, can you clarify whether you agree with the ruling service's view? Do you think that this is my thesis that this ruling ignores the will of the legislator and that the exclusion grounds for managers are ignored? If you acknowledge that, will the ruling service behave differently, or should there be a legislative amendment, a clarification, here? I would have liked to have checked your point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u85	Mr Deseyn, with the decision of 24 November 2015, the ruling service confirms that the use of the certification of shares does not prevent the benefit of the tax reduction for the acquisition of bonds issued by the Kringloopfonds. The ruling service does indeed justify its decision on the basis of Article 503 of the Company Code and Article 13 of the Law of 15 July 1998 on the certification of securities issued by commercial companies. That last article considers the holder of the certificates to be a shareholder in every respect for the purposes of applying the Income Tax Code (WIB 92) and fully justifies the decision taken. This also published decision also states that the mentioned certification mechanism was submitted to the FSMA and that no comments were made. As regards the failure to recognise the exclusion grounds for managers, the ruling service shall justify its decision in the light of the preparatory work of the relevant legal provision. Therefore, by ensuring that the investor is not the director of the target companies nor of the company issuing the certification, this decision is fully in line with the wishes of the legislator. Having said that, the Council of Ministers has decided to examine whether, and if so, how, the technique of certification of shares can be integrated into the legal framework of the tax shelter for start-ups.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u86	Mr Minister, technically speaking, the investor must not be a director. That is actually the essence of the matter to see if this will pass the legality test. Apparently, with the whole explanation given. The Council of Ministers does, however, seem to be asking questions about the possibility of this. It will therefore be the responsibility of the legislator to propose, according to his views, any other legislation. Thank you for this interesting answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u87	It is astonishingly quiet about the Greek debt crisis file. That is strange, because there is a lot of movement on the Greek and IMF fronts. The euro group meets on Monday. So my question is interesting to make a prediction about its outcome. On 25 May there was the meeting of the so-called major breakthrough around the Greek debt crisis. The IMF was very critical of the state of play. If there is no option for debt relief or remission, the debt ratio could evolve to 250 % of GDP. That creates an insurmountable problem. It is interesting to know the Belgian position against debt relief. Do you think it's necessary to go into debt relief? It would be a trend break. Especially after the Brexit we have to keep all students in the classroom and set up facilities for students with a financial disadvantage. There's a lot coming together in this file. What is the Belgian position?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u88	The Eurogroup of 24 and 25 May agreed on a package of debt measures vis-à-vis Greece in the short, medium and long term. The measures are effectively activated to keep gross financing needs below 15% at any time, i.e. interest charges plus repayments, and to keep Greek debt sustainable. Fifteen percent is a reasonable, internationally accepted standard as a reference point. The first debt relief measures will come after the conclusion of the first evaluation and will run until the end of the ESM programme, namely in mid-2018. These include measures aimed at clarifying the EFSF payback profile below the current weighted average age of 32.5 years and the use of the diversified financing strategy of the EFSF-ESM to further reduce interest rates. Following the successful conclusion of the ESM programme, measures are still planned in the medium term, such as the use of SMP and ANFA profits, whereby central banks partially give up their profits on government securities transactions. That's a pretty complex formula. I can give you more details, if that's what you're interested in. These are two different amounts: what is already divided and what is still to be divided. If necessary, the eurogroup may decide on further longer-term measures and to activate the contingency mechanism and to guarantee that 15%, to which I referred earlier. Your second question was about the IMF report. Like all eurogroup ministers, I have taken note of the debt sustainability analysis (DSA) of the IMF, on the one hand, and of the DSA of the European institutions, on the other. I note that a normal DSA runs over a period of about ten years. However, the DSA debt instruments for Greece run until 2060 because the EFSF and ESM programmes have an average maximum maturity of 32.5 years. This makes it impossible to rely on predictions, but only on assumptions. It is therefore only natural that the assumptions, depending on the source, sometimes dare to differ. As regards debt relief, the Eurogroup has decided to base itself on the DSA and on the assumptions of the European institutions, and not on those of the IMF. Indeed, the DSA of the European institutions is in line with the budgetary targets agreed at the July 2015 Euro Summit. Moreover, the approved contingency mechanism should ensure that, if Greece deviates from the budgetary targets, the derogation is corrected. Finally, of course, there are measures to keep Greek debt sustainable in the short, medium and long term.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u89	I think that will require a great discipline from Greece. One should not live too much above his standards, certainly not more than 15%. I hope that, in addition to a financial debt restructuring, it will also provide good administrative guidance. Appropriate tax collection and tax controls, which have been under discussion for some time now, must be pursued on a permanent basis. In this area, too, the Eurogroup should be encouraged to provide adequate guidance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u90	Mr Minister, in order to claim the intervention of the DAVO, where the debtor parent does not voluntarily pay maintenance fees, a judgment or authentic instrument setting out the exact amount of the maintenance fee must be available. There are three categories of enforceable titles, in particular the enforceable judicial decision, the instrument referred to in Article 1288 of the Civil Code and the enforceable settlement. The agreement between legally resident persons is concluded with the notary at the end of the legal cohabitation does not appear to be covered. This would put serious problems on the part of the former cohabitant, entitled to a maintenance allowance for the children. Minister, are you aware of this problem? Are you possibly working on a solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u91	Indeed, the situation you mentioned is not in DAVO legislation. The former cohabitant cannot therefore request the intervention of the DAVO. It is not the case that all the people living together, by definition, remain in the cold. If the family court has intervened, where the relationship between the partners has been seriously disturbed, there is an enforceable judicial decision on the basis of which the DAVO could intervene. The administration is currently examining the possibilities for addressing these problems. The ex-legal cohabitant will therefore have to rely on a court bailiff to recover overdue maintenance money. The notarial act is a valid and enforceable title between the parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u92	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u93	Mr Minister, it is about the recovery capacity of the BBI and the recovery rates. There have been quite a few political stabbing games and mutual accusations about, among other things, pumping up or suggesting the figures more rosy. The BBI itself presented these figures at the hearing we had in the Panama Papers Committee, and that is where the difference between the amount of collections and the amount of effective collections is explained. At that time, the administration stated that these amounts were entered in the accounts because they represent a debt to be recovered, after which the other figures reflected their effective recovery. Then we come to evolutions of 17 % in 2013, 16 % in 2014 and 22 % in 2015. These figures have been expressed by stating that many of these sums are the subject of proceedings and disputes. In addition, some procedures may drag on for years or the taxpayer may have become inability or have been declared bankrupt. Within the civil service and within the service, we are somewhat resented when it is said that these figures contain little substance. We cannot, of course, deny that they are subject to our legal system, to complex tax legislation and to the will of the taxpayer to challenge or challenge these debts. I think, of course, that together we are advocating a correct measurement system or a simplified recovery procedure. It is interesting to ask ourselves what the policy tool is if we want to improve those figures. We can take a look at the anti-fraud plan, there's some interesting things in there. The legislative proposals on Antigoon and the reflections on the right of visitation are also the themes that are prominent in your policy paper, even when it comes to recovery fraud or organised insolvency. So there are a lot of coat racks to do something about this effectively. This would lead to a rapprochement and mutual understanding, not only in the political sphere, but above all between the policy-makers and the administration, which is rather keen on this. Hence my questions. Can the Minister clarify what steps he has already taken to increase the level of recovery? What's already in the pipeline? Has there been an increase in staffing at the recovery cell, is this at the expense of other services and should this increase lead to better figures? Can the Minister explain whether he has already begun to undertake a review of the Code of Recovery? On the various issues covered by the anti-fraud plan, which I have provoked, have the right of visitation, Antigon, insolvency, the recovery fraud taken initiatives in the scaffolding? And perhaps a very important political element: has the statements and figures actually been in dialogue with the people of the BBI? They feel a little offended. They would be pinned on too low percentages, while, of course, there are many good reasons. It would therefore be interesting to consider whether the service is motivated to cooperate with the policy-makers in order to obtain good measuring instruments from the service, because these percentages cannot, of course, be regarded as an evaluation of the service.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u94	Mr Deseyn, it is indeed important to make a clear distinction between the amounts collected and the payments actually collected. In this respect, it cannot be denied that the investigations carried out by the FBI often give rise to lengthy, even very lengthy, legal proceedings. The assessment of collection efficiency should therefore be placed in a sufficiently long historical perspective. As you rightly pointed out, my recent anti-fraud plan also explicitly addresses this issue. As regards your first group of questions, in order to systematically increase the rate of collection of the BBI collections, a cooperation protocol was concluded on 18 January this year between the general administration of, on the one hand, the BBI and, on the other hand, collection and recovery. Last year, the government decided to assign 99 specific recruitments in Class A, including six dataminers, to the BBI. Grosso mode is 40% legal and 60% economists. Where necessary, the regional boards of the BBI have assigned some of these lawyers to their specific recovery cell in order to intensify the proactive action and cooperation with the General Administration of the Inning and the Recovery. As for your second group of questions, the administration is working on the drafting of a Code of Recovery. In order to maximise efficiency, simplicity and transparency, that Code will apply to all taxes, duties, taxes and certain non-fiscal claims collected by the General Administration of the Collection and the Recovery. However, this does not prevent other initiatives being taken in the meantime to improve recovery. I refer more specifically to the draft programme law and the draft law laying down various provisions. Finally, my services are currently preparing several draft laws to improve recovery in the event of recovery fraud or organised insolvency of liable third parties in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u95	Mr President, these initiatives are of course very welcome, but I hope that the figures will not be obscured in the debate. I am not accusing you of that, but sometimes someone says that he has been a better fraud fighter and sometimes people actually compare apples with pears. Of course, that's not very beneficial. Of course, people do not feel appreciated for the efforts they have made. With this series of initiatives, however, you show that you have a particular ambition to do better in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u96	Mr Minister, these are important questions because, in the light of the forthcoming budget rounds, we will look at the revenues. You have stated in this respect that these revenues are disappointing. You have also announced three possible avenues: adjustment, disposal or replacement with something else in the fiscal sphere. These are, of course, three fascinating slopes because one can go either way. You also stated that the revenues are seriously below expectations and that the proceeds of the stock exchange tax were thereby reduced. You have already foreseen this, but you have nevertheless assumed your responsibility by cooperating with the implementation of the measure which may not have been worked out effectively enough. You have also said that the main aim of the measure is to tackle speculation and that the proceeds are not so important. In other judgments, however, the importance of the proceeds was highlighted. It is noted that there is less trade in the Belgian context, but there is less appreciation for the fact that speculation is being dealt with. However, what exactly should be dealt with is a completely different question. The approach was to ask for a fair contribution in the context of the tax shift and to appeal to other categories. I think that dealing with speculation or not is actually a bleak discussion. I believe that this is simply a source of income that can be used in the context of fair taxation in order to achieve good results in a transparent manner. How much revenue has been generated now? Should we be so pessimistic as to speak of failure if only a few months after the adoption of this measure? For which slope will you choose to dispose of, adjust or replace? This does not seem unimportant to me in view of the coming weeks. Should adjustments be sought in the context of taxes on unlisted shares and derivatives? Will the measure be extended to professional investors? Do you have any other measures in mind? It seems interesting to me to give some idea in this committee of possible measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u97	Minister, during your trip to New York, you gave a lot of interviews on various topics. One of them is the capital gains tax. In your opinion, it would generate less revenue than expected and would also bring down the tax on stock exchange transactions. Correcting, repealing or replacing the speculation tax are options that need to be explored, you said. The abolition, which is a hypothesis that you do not exclude, would make Belgium one of the few European states not to consider that the beneficiaries of market capital gains can and should contribute to the budgetary balance of the State, and that it is important to introduce obstacles and limits to financial speculation. Do you confirm your comments, as they have been reported? On what figures do you use to estimate the reductions in the tax on stock exchange transactions and the low income from the capital gains tax? Do you not consider that the problem is more a matter of the chosen methods of taxation of capital gains than of the very principle of a contribution on capital gains? Would a comparative study of the methods used in other European countries applying a tax on speculation not be useful in determining the right way to act? Within which time will a decision be taken on the matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, the figures on which I am based are provisional figures, mainly based on contacts with the sector. They refer to income from the stock tax, the speculation tax on stock transactions on Euronext Brussels and transaction volumes during the first quarter of 2016, compared to the first quarter 2015. These figures were again compared with the figures of Euronext Paris and Amsterdam. Over the next few weeks, the administration will provide us with a more comprehensive and comprehensive analysis of the problem. I will, of course, refer it to the government. This overall assessment must not only focus on revenues from the speculation tax, but must also map the effect of the tax on speculation on other taxes, such as the stock exchange tax, and on the behaviour aimed at circumventing the tax by moving towards more speculative and unquoted securities. So it's a whole dish! Many elements of discussion must be "attacked". I do not wish to move forward in this debate which will certainly take place in August and September within the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u99	I think the Minister's right when he says it should be worth the kale. It is important that the revenue is generated. How, where and what is of secondary importance. This also applies to the questions that have just been raised about the financial transaction fee. I'd say to the government: find something. Peu importe la solution, but it has to be found. Indeed, there are always derivative and disruptive effects. So one must be careful to find the best instrument. However, it is no longer possible to say in 2016 that such an instrument cannot be conceived. I think that the debate on why is over more than ever and that the debate on what will be discussed in the coming weeks will be more than ever.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u100	Mr Minister, it is indeed better to speak on the basis of figures rather than impressions. Once the numbers are at your disposal, you will have to ask the right questions. I have the impression that you have been reluctantly legislating with provisions that do not seem the finest to combat the phenomenon of speculation. We have tabled amendments to make the scheme perhaps more effective, but I would not like it to be considered unnecessary, on the basis of a first negative result, to have a perception of the gains achieved, as in the vast majority of the countries of the European Union. There is no reason why profits generated by equity investments do not contribute to government financing, as do profits from labour or other income. Your role is to find the adjusted system that will achieve the objectives without inconvenience but do not take advantage of it, under the pretext of possible bad short-term income, to remove any mechanism of taxation of capital gains.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u101	Mr President, Minister, I would like to report immediately on the testimony of the BBI in the Panama Papers Committee, on a very practical matter, because we must, of course, await the conclusions for the other matters. The BBI says she often doesn't have access to paying databases, like Graydon, and that this prevents the BBI from working properly. That's kind of weird. I do not think that these are the most expensive tools, but these are quick wins that we do not have to wait for months or for which we do not have to wait for major reports. First of all, Minister, I would like to ask why we do not have access to these paying databases. Are those insurmountable costs? There would still be a big payback effect if the data could be delivered better. Can this all be more efficient? After all, a good official can only do a good job if he has the right tools.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u102	Mr President, Mr Deseyn, the General Administration of the BBI currently holds licences for the use of the databases Infobase, Bel-first and TotalPatent, and an international database of companies connected to the application of SAS Fraud Framework. Under the budget specifically set for the Belgian Internet Service Center, the well-known BISC in 2015, the purchase process is being prepared for licenses for the use of other external databases to perform searches on the Internet. Last year it was decided to give the BISC additional resources for this purpose. There are a number of very specific applications on the market for professional users, which are subject, for example, to anti-money laundering legislation, such as Graydon with Screening and Trail Audit, or which specialise in transfer pricing research, such as Orbis or TP Catalyst. The necessary arrangements were made within the department to make available such licences, which appear to be necessary in the context of a tax fraud investigation. Since it has also been explicitly included in my anti-fraud plan, you can rest assured that I will follow this issue very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u103	Minister, the taxpayer will be grateful to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u104	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Calomne's 12332 has been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Piedboeuf's 12335 is transformed into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Calomne's 12367 has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u105	Mr President, Minister, following on from its growth agenda, the European Commission has set up a European Fund for Strategic Investments, an investment fund that should stimulate greater investment in Europe. The economic conditions of recent years force us to do so. Growth is still not optimal, even in Belgium. That is why we need to make the most of the EFSI. Have we already contributed to the fund? What return to Belgian investments can we get back? The European Commission, President Juncker in particular, has itself invested EUR 21 billion in the fund, with the aim of generating an amount of EUR 315 billion in strategic investment within three years. It appears that this multiplication has been carefully estimated by applying a multiplier effect of 1 euro in contribution over 15 euros to investments delivered over three years. The amounts transferred are intended as a guarantee or as a risk protection for each private euro of investments. After one year, the European Fund has already raised EUR 100 billion in funding in 26 Member States, including Belgium. For SMEs, an amount of EUR 49 billion has already been mobilised, whereas at the beginning it was estimated at EUR 75 billion in three years. The amounts seem to be above expectations today. This is positive for the resulting investments, especially for SMEs. Do you confirm the positive evaluation? Do you expect the EFSI to generate even more funding over the next two years? How much has our country already contributed to the financing of the EFSI? How many investment projects has our country been proposed? How many have been accepted? Can you specify the projects? Are these infrastructure projects, rural projects, SME investments or others? Finally, can you tell us what the estimated financing costs of the already accepted investment projects in Belgium are? Are SMEs involved in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u106	Mr President, Mrs Smaers, Belgium is currently in sixth place in the ranking of EFSI beneficiary Member States and even in the first place in the Member States of small and medium size. Since a number of Belgian projects are still under way in the transport sector in particular, we can assume that this positive trend will continue. EFSI's infrastructure is primarily financed by EUR 16 billion from the EU budget. In addition, the European Investment Bank has also allocated 5 billion of its own capital to the financing of the EFSI SME component. Nine Member States have also opted to contribute directly to the EFSI through their National Promotional Banks. Belgium has not opted for this and has not contributed directly to the financing of the EFSI. In our country, there are currently three infrastructure projects funded by the EFSI for a total amount of EUR 380 million. This funding should generate a total of 1.8 billion and create more than 3 200 jobs. The infrastructure projects concerned are the following three. Firstly, Nobelwind offshore wind, which was signed on 21 October 2015 and is worth EUR 100 million. Second, Ginkgo Fund II, which was signed on 11 February 2016 and involves financing of EUR 30 million. Thirdly, Interested offshore wind, which was approved on 12 April 2016 and will have to be worth EUR 250 million. As regards financing SMEs, six agreements have been concluded with banks or intermediary funds under the EFSI for a total amount of EUR 57.6 million. These funding is channelled through the European Investment Fund (EIF) and should generate 684.5 million in investments in over 2,000 SMEs and start-ups. As regards the financing of infrastructure projects, the EIB does not provide any information on the individual conditions under which its loans are granted. With regard to financing for SMEs, the EIF's financing will be implemented through intermediaries, banks, funds, and such funds, which determine the conditions of granting themselves in a final manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u107	Minister, it is good to hear that we have a reasonable place on the ranking of beneficiary Member States, as you said at the beginning of your reply. I note from the infrastructure projects mentioned that this is mainly about energy and that we are in a good position there. I wonder, then, whether we can no longer do anything about transport infrastructure projects. We have several major projects, of which Oosterweel is not the least in Antwerp, in order to be able to make use of them. I assume this is being watched. As far as SME funding is concerned, I understand that a reasonable amount of money is being spent on Belgian financing. I hope the government will look further at that. All these resources that are made available and may be generated are best used to finance our own growth creation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u108	Mr Minister, the practitioners of numeral professions, namely the accountant, the accountant-fiscalist, the accountant and the auditor, are partners in the fight against tax fraud. If they take care of the tax returns as well as possible, the checks can be reduced to a minimum. In the past there have even been colloquia in collaboration with the then Secretary of State Jamar. Optimum cooperation between the administration and the practitioners of grade occupations as such is important. In recent times, some associations have been annoyed by the fact that certain information flows less smoothly. An association has informed us. However, it was agreed at the time in a charter to allow information to flow quickly to the persons in the grade profession, so that they are quickly aware of the answers of the competent minister who have implications in terms of tax returns or tax or accounting treatment. In recent times, more than in the past, we would like to draw your attention to the fact that this flow is not going evenly. There are associations that are confronted with other organisations, which request certain information for a fee. I also regularly send colleagues from my office to these interesting meetings because they want to be recognized as an accountant, a fiscalist or an accountant. We note, however, that the professional associations, which normally register by e-mail or communicate it through their professional journals, do not always receive the information. However, this information is the subject of special colloquia for payment, of people who, moreover, you know, are staying in your cabinet. In a previous legislature, we worked very hard with Mr Jamar, then Secretary of State, to streamline the relationship of trust between the practitioners of grade occupations and the FPS Finance. The better and more accurate the declarations, the less checks and the more one can concentrate on the real problems of the declarations. Are you aware of that? What will you do about it? Can you in any way improve or restore the flow of communication in this area, so that we no longer have to receive letters from an organisation which rightly claims that it is not normal to go to a seminar to get information, when it used to be streamlined from the administration?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u109	Mr President, my question goes in the same direction, of course. I would remind you that in 2013 I already asked Minister Geens about the compatibility of secondary activities of officials associated with the CBO with the deontological code. His answer was that it was absolutely not intended that these officials should give lessons, lectures and conferences as a secondary profession on a structural basis. Like my colleague Van Biesen, I have been working with the professional association, him as an accountant, and often as a contact point for the accountants. They gave us a copy of the letter that was also delivered to you. There is a complaint that information on administrative decisions is being delivered late. Apparently, a lot of internal information can already be obtained from other organisations. Mr Minister, who is watching whether or not there is a conflict of interest? An investigation has been carried out in the past, or at least announced, into compliance with the code of ethics in the field of cumulation authorisation by CBO officials. Who does that? Is that gonna happen? What were the results? Do you share the view that, among other things, administrative decisions, positions and Q & A. is of interest to associations of accountants and their members? In what way do you wish to answer the question of the professional associations of the graders in order to keep them systematically and simultaneously informed of the new administrative decisions taken by you, your cabinet and your administration? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u110	Mr Van Biesen, Mrs Wouters, we received the letter from the KVABB on 15 June. On 17 June, we replied in the following way, and I quote: 'We attach great importance to contacting the various sectors and their actors, and thus also to professional associations and to the numbering professions. A great deal of effort is therefore being made to regularly consult with representatives from the sectors in the preparation and preparation of dossiers. I certainly agree with you that sufficient and timely information is of great importance to professional associations, and we are really committed to this. For this reason, new administrative comments with the necessary explanations are systematically and rapidly delivered to, inter alia, the BIBF, the IAB, the VBO, Voka, UNIZO and so on, with a view to further dissemination to the respective members." A copy of that letter was also addressed to the umbrella professional institutes IAB and BIBF, of which we have already received a reply on 20 June. Both professional institutes are grateful for the open and transparent communication which is being conducted with them. The claim that there would be no communication and information flow, therefore, does the truth a little bit of violence. This is, of course, their right to organise tax training not only for professional associations but also for commercial organisations. Of course, it is not a problem in itself that FPS Finance officials are involved in educational activities. On the contrary, this may even create an interesting synergy between the private and public sectors. However, the official must report these activities once a year to the Integrity Cell at the P&D staff department of the FPS Finance. The exercise of educational activities is clearly subject to certain conditions. For example, the official must take leave if he is engaged in educational activities during hours of service, the training must be limited to explaining the tax rules, no vocational courses and internal instructions from the administration and, finally, the official must be prepared to give the training concerned to his colleagues in the context of vocational training organized by the FPS Finance. According to the information available to the FPS Finance, the number of officials providing such training was 17 in 2014 and 22 in 2015. Finally, the investigation into compliance with the deontological code in the field of cumulation authorisation by CBO officials is still ongoing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u111	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. However, I would like to make it clear that the charter agreed at that time for the numbers professions is very clear. I believe that the accountants are your best partners, who can certainly limit tax controls. The more accurate they indicate, the better they can follow the legislation, the better their returns may be. I would therefore continue to pay due attention to this, Minister. I'm not talking about your cabinet member at all, let's face it. I say it myself, I send a few of my people to the very good courses every year. However, it is in no way justified that a course should first be taken before information can be obtained. I would nevertheless like to draw your particular attention to this, although he is one of the great specialists in the field of VAT, on which I myself regularly appeal. I have to admit that. He's one of the better guys in that area. I have no problem admitting that. VAT is a very difficult matter. However, it would be awesome if one had to take a course before one could obtain information. I would therefore like to ask you once again to deal with this accurately and to work very closely with the practitioners of the grade professions. They are your best partners, better than your own administration. Don't forget that. It is we who make the declarations; your records check one in ten or one in twenty declarations. As figures professionals, we actually check all the declarations. Therefore, the information available to us must be as accurate as that available to your administration. That's why I repeat my call. Several questions have been asked here today. Frequently, questions lead to interpretation of tax legislation. We therefore call on you to pass it on directly to the administration and to the practitioners of the grade professions, so that there can be no discussion about it. The BIBF publishes the information it receives from you, in principle within 24 hours. So that's not where the problem is. I don't know the IAB very well. I suppose, however, that the same thing is being done for Members there.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u112	In this case, I am glad to see who is doing what side-effects. I agree that education activities must be combined. Then it is important that they are reported and checked. You yourself indicated some conditions: leave, do not use internal documents or information available to the official. The deontological code must indeed be respected. It is necessary to check whether names appear which have not been notified of a cumulative event. I agree with what Mr Van Biesen said. It is important for professional associations to be able to obtain the documentation and information as soon as possible. In this way, a lot of people can be reached in the very short term with the right information. This does not always have to be done through further training. This information can often be studied at the same time on your own initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u113	I have some happy news first, Mr President. Greg Van Avermaet has won the ride, with several minutes lead, so he also becomes the new watch moult carrier, with three to four minutes lead. I'm always telling the truth, Mr. Van Rompuy. It would be better if you never doubted that. Thomas De Gendt also wears the polka dot jersey. It passes from our friend Jasper Stuyven to Thomas De Gendt. That is all happy Belgian news. Mr Gilkinet can confirm that, because he has just followed the last kilometers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u114	Finally good news for this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u115	Finally good news for this country. So we don't need the government. We need our drivers. I have already asked most of the following questions, Minister, in the debate we had here, which was organized by the President, about Optima and the Guarantee Fund. At that time, I asked the question: 'the only question that was not raised at the time 'what other types of funds still exist'. What's the principle? The Guarantee Fund, which we are now discussing a great deal in the context of Optima, is compiled by the banks. The revenue shall be entered in the budget as a receipt. If payments are made from the Guarantee Fund, they will be spent, but the banks will be called upon to serve up the Guarantee Fund. That'll be revenue again. We went over that procedure together last time. The recovery of the payment may be spread over one or more financial years. If, as in the case of Optima, the guarantee of EUR 100 000 is to be paid today and can only be recovered later in the following financial years, then this year is an expenditure and the following years an income. Are there any similar funds? Most fellow Members of this House, and even most of the press, do not know that the mechanism as such is in place. It was thought that the banks paid the fund and that it was so outside the budget that it was debudgeted. No, it's not debudgeted. Are there any such funds in the framework of the institutions, our budget or insurance? The Rampen Fund is now federalized. So I do not see other funds directly, but my question is whether there are any such structures. I call that a bit of budgetary cosmetics. You know that Professor Vande Lanotte was the chief specialist at the university. Budgetary cosmetics was his special profession at the university. All madness on a stick, the question is whether such constructions still exist?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u116	However, I would like to add a few words to the first part of your speech. It is obvious, of course, but for the sake of clarity. If there is intervention from the Guarantee Fund and not all the amounts paid can be recovered, there is obviously a budgetary impact.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u117	This can be spread over several years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u118	Yes, but at least that impact is there. That's just for completeness. With regard to the other funds, I would like to mention the European Resolution Fund. There is, of course, our resolution fund, but there is also the European resolution fund. Both funds aim to finance the resolution of systemic financial institutions. The Resolution Fund has some EUR 738 million in reserves. The amounts collected for this fund shall also be entered in the accounts as general revenue of the Federal State. The same mechanism, actually. The amounts collected so far for the European Resolution Fund, which we discussed a few hours ago, amount to EUR 512 million for 2015 and 2016 together. These amounts are considered to be third-party accounts, i.e. class 4 accounts, and are fully earmarked for the SRF, i.e. the Single Resolution Fund of the European Banking Union. I understand your question was only banking. I don't mind checking again...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u119	Thank you for the answer, Minister. It would be good if the insurance sector and other sectors were to be examined for such constructions. Do I understand correctly that the European Resolution Fund is already being debudgeted? Isn't it? What if it's a class 4 account? So that's not gonna be booked as a receipt, that 500 million euros out there...?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u120	The EUR 738 million from the Belgian resolution fund does.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u121	But is that being debudgeted at European level? Good to know. I think this makes more sense, too. The rest I'm gonna write down as budget cosmetics.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u122	Mr President, Minister, we have had a lot of interesting and detailed discussions in the Panama Papers Committee. We regularly get the general idea that the more double taxation treaties are concluded, the better. That is why I tabled this question on the double taxation treaty with the Cape Verde Islands. Can you tell us if there have been any discussions with the Cape Verde Islands with a view to a possible double taxation treaty? What is your position on a double taxation treaty with the Cape Verde Islands? I know that the double taxation treaties are mentioned earlier in the Committee on External Relations, but it seems interesting to me to learn what investments are being made in the Cape Verde Islands. One of my daughters was once allowed to do an internship in the Cape Verde Islands because the Thomas More Hogeschool of Mechelen there had an important project around the Cape Verde registering of the Cape Verde Islands, but that has very little to do with this question, so I'm getting to the point. Where are you on the double taxation agreement with the Cape Verde Islands?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u123	Mr President, Mr Van Biesen, Belgium is currently taking part in the negotiations under the multilateral instrument aimed at integrating the results of the G20's BEPS Action Plan into the existing double taxation treaties. More than 90 countries are part of this discussion platform, which implies that this requires a large part of our negotiating capacity and resources. These discussions should in principle be completed by December 2016. Until now, there have been no contacts between the FPS Finance and the tax authorities of the Cape Verde Islands with a view to concluding a double taxation treaty. Neither the FPS Finance, nor my cabinet or myself have received a specific question from society or the business community.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u124	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply and I look forward to the agreement in December and the adoption in plenary of this double taxation treaty.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u125	Mr. Van Biesen, is this perhaps an exam question?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u126	Yes, Mr President, you know that I often ask exam questions, but I cannot yet inform the students of their results, because I still have to get the answer from the Minister. All madness, Minister, when married persons under the statutory system determine the deductible part of a commercial property, the ownership share is not taken into account. There is only a division between professional and private parts. If half of the property is used professionally, it is therefore possible to take 50% into account for the deduction of professional costs; that is obvious. When legally resident persons, who have been treated taxly in the same way as married persons since the tax year 2005, determine the deductible part of the commercial property, most auditors do not take into account the ownership share, given the occupational risk. However, in practice there appear to be some auditors who believe that there should first be a division by share of ownership. If half of the property is owned and half of the property is professional, only 25% is eligible as professional costs. In view of the fiscal equivalence of married and legally cohabitants, as you know, that is a parade for liberals and, given the non-one-sided application, that difference in treatment is remarkable. Mr Minister, should there be a division by share of ownership between legal residents for the purpose of determining the professional part of a commercial property? You can easily answer that question with yes or no. If you would answer yes, as I hope, why is there a difference in treatment in relation to married people? If no, can you then make the procedure clear to all competent officials via a circular? What happens to the people who have been divided up in the past?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u127	Mr President, Mr Van Biesen, I think that in your question we should distinguish two cases. In the first case, the building belongs to the common assets of two spouses who are married under the statutory system and the building is used at 50% for the exercise of the professional activity of one of the spouses. In this case, depreciation on the building is deductible at 50% as professional expenses of the spouse who uses it professionally. Second case. Here the building belongs in undivided part to two legally resident persons who each co-owner half of it and is used at 50% for the exercise of the professional activity of one of the partners. In this case, depreciation is deductible for only 25% or half of 50% as professional costs of the legally cohabiting partner who uses the building professionally. This difference in treatment is not due to the fact that, in the first case, married persons and in the second case, they are legally resident persons, but to the fact that, in the first case, the building belongs to the common assets of the owners, and in the second case, 50% of the assets of each co-owner. This answer will be included in the tax and legal database on the Finance site, Fisconetplus, in order to ensure uniform application of this Directive.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u128	Thank you, Minister, for your clarification. It is important that Fisconetplus record that, but somehow I find that here...Of course one can say that the principle that they are married is still fundamentally different from legally living together. In itself, it doesn't mean it's a common... if they were married and not legally living together, it would have been incorporated into the common wealth. Because they are legally living together, it is not included in the common wealth, although the two of us... We have to learn to live a little with the new forms of cohabitation that occur in our society. I note your answer and your clarity in that regard. At present, this brings with it many different interpretations in different regions. I believe that a legal initiative is insisting on eliminating any distinction between married and legally resident people. There is no longer any difference between these two forms. Let's be clear about that. Personally, I am a great supporter of marriage, as you know, not only of the first but also of the second marriage. I am therefore still very much in favour of this. On the other hand, it must be remembered that for many people living together in law is actually the same thing and that there should be no legal distinction between living together and marriage. A distinction in this area has fundamental consequences. I will therefore take an initiative in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u129	Within the FPS Finance there is currently a large-scale investigation into the tax consequences of various forms of cohabitation. In principle, the present theme will certainly be included.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u130	Is it your intention to eliminate as much as possible or completely the difference between married and legally resident people?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u131	I'll wait for the study first.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u132	Do you agree that there should be no distinction between married and legally resident people?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u133	This must be discussed within the government, because a legal initiative must be taken to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u134	I will take the lead in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u135	The drinking water intercommunal Farys/TMVW advertises to municipal authorities for a remarkable action. Anyone who wants to install a well or installation during a renovation or new construction can contact Reni, a service of Farys. They unpack with a reduced VAT rate of 6%, also for new construction. However, the law states that the reduced rate applies only in a limited number of cases of renovations. The installation of rainwater installations is also a service offered by other self-employed persons and businesses, but they should charge 21% VAT. They cannot charge a 6%, except for the one company which is part of the intercommunal unit, for the scope of the intercommunal unit. Hence the following questions, Minister. Firstly, is the reduced VAT rate scheme offered by this one company to Farys' customers legal for new construction projects? If so, on the basis of what legal provisions can this be done? Secondly, is there not a risk that a reduced VAT rate in the case cited could lead to a distortion of the market and harm competition with purely private companies? If so, what are you going to do to remove this anomaly and to prevent it from happening in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u136	Mr Van Hecke, the annex to Royal Decree No. 20 of 20 July 1970 on VAT rates, in particular Table A provides for a number of headings relating to the application of the VAT rate of 6% in the case of new construction of private homes or institutions for disabled persons, for housing under social policy, for the demolition and reconstruction of buildings in specific cities, or in the case of school building. Consequently, the supply with the installation of a rainwater well or a rainwater installation in new construction may in certain cases benefit from the reduced VAT rate of 6%. In order to avoid distortion of competition, the administration ensures that the rules are strictly observed. If it finds that the operator is wrongly applying the VAT rate of 6%, it shall take measures to rectify it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u137	Mr. Secretary, I thought it was coming now. Indeed, the case is a part of an intercommunal advertising and claims to be able to offer a service of 6% VAT on all new construction projects within the scope of TMVW, but not outside. Any company or self-employed person wishing to do the same within the scope of TMVW must charge 21 %. So that's a problem. I can imagine that this will be allowed in certain cases, but it will obviously have to be decided objectively and this should not lead to distortions of competition. That's just the problem. An intercommunal request that municipalities which form part of that intercommunal unit should advertise in their municipal data sheets the fact that the one company can offer the service at a rate of 6%. And I have questions about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u138	This case will be brought to the attention of the relevant department.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u139	Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u140	Minister, you have the art of being noticed at the ECOFINs. I found articles about you in Le Monde, in Swiss newspapers, all over Europe, as the only representative of the country that refused to approve a draft Commission directive on the tax avoidance of multinationals. According to our estimates, the tax avoidance of multinational companies represents an annual loss of between EUR 160 billion and EUR 190 billion for the European Union. A draft directive is on the table, which is not perfect but makes it possible to move forward, in that it aims to generalise the principle that taxes should be paid where the company's profits are realized. Belgium was the only country to refuse the principle of a directive. Finally, it was approved, but it included a large number of exceptions and postponed its implementation to 2021 or a few years at least. You're going to confirm that in your answer. Minister, can you explain to me the position you have taken on this directive? What justified this position? What was the final decision taken by ECOFIN? What are the implications for Belgium? What schedule for the next one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u141	Minister, it is fascinating to put together some of your statements and some of your documents and then to find a consistent system in them. I'm declaring myself. You said during the negotiations on ATAD, when it came to the interest limitation rule, that our country is already working with the thin cap regime and that it would be sufficiently efficient. In your view, we cannot withdraw from the market prices in terms of entry. We can, of course, discuss this point, but allow me to add the documents that we have approved here. The anti-fraud plan states on page 63 under Action 4 that the thin cap rules are not sufficient. Also in your policy paper, page 60, I quote: "The Belgian Government supports the European Commission's action on restrictions on interest relief. At least a uniform system should be developed at European level. Both documents were submitted by you. In the negotiations they were not really the guiding principle, as at that time Belgium argued for the retention of the thin cap regime and for the conversion of the interest limitation rule to a possible minimum standard in BEPS. It is recognised that something needs to be changed, but it is rather defensive. Perhaps you had another change in mind, and you therefore fell back on the existing scheme. In our country, however, there is strong support for adjusting what already exists, including from an anti-fraud perspective. There is also a derogation from the EBITDA scheme in ATAD. Is there an opportunity for our country to profile us tax-competitively?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u142	Mr Gilkinet, Mr Deseyn, I will say the following in four points. First of all, what was the Belgian position? The ATAD of Anti Tax Avoidance Directive to combat tax avoidance practices is the transposition into European executives of the OECD's BEPS recommendations. Our Belgian position was that we should be aware of the international context of this dossier. If we impose obligations that go beyond what was agreed internationally, we run a serious risk of weakening our competitive position and those of the EU countries in general. This would have a negative impact on growth, investment and employment. Belgium, Slovenia and Austria have proposed a common text to link the time when the European Union and the OECD will lay down binding rules. In the OECD, there are three types of recommendations: best practices, common approach and hard law. Only the latter is binding and comparable to a European directive. The date does not contain any OECD minimum standards, so the European Union goes further than the OECD in terms of form. The timing of the OECD is fundamental in this respect, but it is not clear whether the European Union is going too far and too fast. Secondly, why the Resistance? Again, for the record, we fully agreed to five of the six articles from the Anti Tax Avoidance Directive. We also agreed with the content of the proposed restriction of interest, the sixth of the six articles with which we had a problem, but in view of the fact that this is not yet a binding rule in the OECD field, we have asked for a clear link between the EU and the OECD on the timing of implementation. Belgium was also concerned about the impact of the interest limitation rule, the proposed EBITDA rule in ATAD, because that rule does not only target BEPS but can also slow down real economic activities and have a more detrimental effect on smaller Member States than on the larger ones, which have a larger home market and can attract more interest. In addition, together with the Commission, the larger Member States have called for a general and strict European limitation of interest relief, as provided for in Action 4 of the OECD Anti-BEPS. Germany, France and Italy introduced the rule into their own legislation before 2015. The rule was incorporated into the final report of the OECD BEPS project by the end of October 2015 as a non-binding recommendation, inter alia, through their interventions in the OECD working groups. The next step is to make the rule binding on the other Member States through the proposed directive, i.e. ATAD, which will be Europe's first mover at global level. What's with the final approval? The Dutch Presidency has put forward as its ultimate proposal to allow more time, until 1 January 2024, for Member States whose national rules are contrary to the BEPS. We know that in the OECD, a revision of the interest limitation rule is planned at the earliest in 2020, but without a guarantee of transposition into a minimum standard. This will take a few more years. It is at the request of Austria that we would expect 2025 or 2026. Ultimately, the mandatory entry into force was set in 2024, which is a realistic timetable at the OECD level. In line with Belgium's demand for an international level playing field, a statement was attached to the Directive, in which the Commission and the Member States will urge the OECD to speed up the implementation of a binding BEPS recommendation. It is very important that, in future too, the greatest possible international cooperation is achieved in this area. The fight against tax avoidance can only succeed if it is addressed in all countries. As regards the preparation of the Belgian position, I had received a clear mandate from the nuclear cabinet prior to the Ecofin meeting. This meant that there had to be a clear link between the OECD and EU binding rules, for which no timing could essentially be determined. When it became clear in the discussions at the Ecofin meeting that the largest Member States absolutely demanded a fixed date in the directive, I had a political reserve to be able to reconvene within the Belgian Government, given the mandate I had just received from the nuclear cabinet. That discussion was subsequently held at the level of the IKW and subsequently by the government, with a further explanation from the minefield, with the known result that the government agreed to the present proposal and that the ATAD Directive could be adopted by all the Member States concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u143	Are you reassured, Mr. Gilkinet?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u144	Not quite, Mr President, but in any case, I have an explanation of how this negotiation is going. It is interesting to know how this works by mandate and by trying to achieve the greatest possible harmonisation at European level, and beyond, through the OECD, what I can share. However, in every case of this type, I feel an extreme chill on the part of Belgium, which is not a country at the forefront of seeking a form of coordination and harmonisation in tax matters. In my view and in the eyes of environmentalists in general, this would be the best response to tax evasion, which benefits only some powerful economic actors who play with the differences in tax systems and their lack of coordination and with the inefficient exchange of information. Things are changing. Little by little, we create transparency, exchange of information, but far too slowly. I have chosen the date of 2024: every year that passes deprives the states of important means of operation and leads them to take measures which, in social, environmental or economic terms, are very negative for our citizens, which I regret.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u145	Minister, I also asked the Minister of Justice this question because you are the two ministers in charge of the matter. In this case, it is a matter of correcting the "una via" law adopted following the recommendations of the first commission of inquiry on major tax fraud and which allows for a more efficient distribution of tax fraud cases between the public prosecutor's offices and the tax administration, and therefore a more effective treatment of these cases, if only one way is chosen to deal with them. Following an application to the Constitutional Court, the Court annulled articles 3, 4 and 14 of the Act. This has a very serious impact on the fight against tax evasion in practice; it undermines the work of the few tax judges who remain active and also the tax administration, which requires the adoption of a restorative law in the context of a partnership between the FPS Justice and the FPS Finances. I've been told that it was blocking a little at the FPS Finance level, but maybe I'm misinformed. Do you confirm the government's intention to propose a corrective law in response to the opinion of the Constitutional Court? Who was in charge of drafting it? Is it you or rather the Minister of Justice? What's the status of the work? Does the FPS Finance have a diverging view of the FPS Justice on this issue? How soon will you submit this text to Parliament? I have not seen it included in the urgent laws still to be adopted before 21 July, and I regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u146	Mr Gilkinet, a law correcting the ruling of the Constitutional Court is currently being prepared, in collaboration with the Justice colleagues. The bill will be presented to Parliament as soon as it is finalized.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u147	That's an answer! Let me reply... I could have written the answer for you. This is reflected in the development of my question. There's going to be a restorative law and you'll introduce it to Parliament. I know that we can't make a law without it going to parliament and the representatives of the citizens we are voting; I learned that a long time ago. What I'm interested in is knowing the deadline, what's wrong, and I'd like to make sure that this is an emergency for the FPS Finances, and that you're going to work together properly on the subject, which you haven't reassured me about. So I hope that as soon as we return on September 1st, we will be seized, Mr. Speaker, of a correcting bill from the Una Via Act. I encourage you to do so as soon as possible, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u148	Minister, I no longer count the number of interventions on this issue, but the number of years I like to intervene in it, seven years. I have already called upon your predecessors, including the Liberal Minister of Finance. I would therefore like to ask you about the steps taken by your department to make effective the creation of a registration office "authentic acts" and of a retention of mortgages in Eupen on 31 December of this year 2016, thus supplementing the new legal security office of Eupen and also responding to the Coperfin reforms decided in 2004. Minister, to date, I have come up with a new proposal to address this request to you. Indeed, it is my responsibility that the officials of the current Malmedy Mortgage Conservation would have renounced the possibility of working on a voluntary basis, as has traditionally been the case, at the headquarters of the antenna in Eupen. One can only take note of the fact that, in the context of the Coperfin reform, they seem to prefer to be assigned elsewhere, namely to Verviers, Liège, Namur or Brussels. Although this is very regrettable for the continuity of the service and the service provided to the population, this would require that your department urgently recruit 5 to 6 full-time equivalents of German-language B and C levels, as they would still have to be trained by 31 December 2016. Minister, my questions on this subject are as follows. Do you confirm my analysis of the above facts? If so, will you immediately launch a recruitment process to make the Eupen antenna operational by December 31st of this year?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u149	Mrs Jadin, I can confirm that the officials of the current Malmedy Mortgage Conservation have renounced the possibility of working on a voluntary basis at the headquarters of the Eupen antenna. The administration is looking for a solution for staff within the Eupen antenna, which consists of two residences, namely Saint-Vith and Eupen. She has already offered two promotions at level A for German-speaking collaborators in the residence of Eupen. In addition, initially, the surplus of the staff of the Saint-Vith office could help the Eupen antenna remotely and during the start-up phase, the officials appointed in Malmédy could also continue to assist the Eupen antenna remotely, if they so wish, in order to ensure the continuity of the two services. As for recruitment, a budget margin is sought under the 2016 staff plan for recruitment. These will be extended in the 2017 personal plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u150	Thank you very much, Minister. I see things are moving and we're going to come up with the creation of a legal security branch in Eupen. This is obviously a key issue. It is also essential to be able to do so with the necessary and useful staff to provide this service. The authentic registered documents are important and concern the entire region. It is also essential to be able to do so in one's own language. I therefore take note not only of the reorganization that you are going to put in place, if I have understood, temporarily, for the security antenna, of the establishment in a first phase of the legal security antenna in Eupen, and in a second stage, of the need to launch urgently, since it will be necessary to provide in the 2016 budget the budgetary margins necessary to carry out a recruitment allowing the best possible offer of services.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u151	Questions Nos 12565 by Mr Vanvelthoven and 12581 by Mr Lachaert are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Pivin's 12624 was postponed. Questions Nos 12644 and 12753 by Mr Vanvelthoven are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u152	Mr President, Minister, 52% of the British spoke against the European project. On the sidelines of this vote, it would appear that you have contacted the regulators in order to take preventive measures. Minister, can you give us a detailed account of the preventive measures taken in this context to prevent the potential consequences of Brexit for Belgium? Is a meeting with your European finance colleagues planned soon to discuss Brexit and its potential consequences for the economies of the Member States? Have you contacted your British counterpart? Mr Minister, the outcome of the Brexit must no doubt highlight your anti-European sentiment. I am talking about this in relation to how you negotiated the TTF (the financial transaction tax) or how you reacted to the anti-tax evasion directives. You're talking about "correct European translation." What do you mean by that? Clearly Europe is sick, but clearly we do not agree, and I think we will never be, on the remedies to be provided. You are talking about Europeanism, but what does that mean in the matters that concern you in ECOFIN?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u153	Mr. Chair, Minister, this is a somewhat more focused issue, but it is in the same context. I believe that no one is now in control of the consequences of Brexit, both from an institutional point of view and potentially in relation to a new financial crisis, the emergence of which worries more than one observer. In concrete terms, Belgium is particularly threatened by the consequences of Brexit on Dexia, of which we are the guarantor at the level of several tens of billions. De Tijd, based on a report by the National Bank, referred on 24 June to Brexit's risks to the health of the financial sector, including the potential consequences for Dexia. This bad bank is in fact exposed to EUR 26 billion in the UK. According to De Tijd, BNB experts were particularly concerned about the slowing down of trade in the weeks following the referendum, which could lead to funding difficulties. Depending on the impact of Brexit on the markets, it is not excluded that we should recapitalize Dexia again, which would not help the budgetary situation in Belgium. Minister, can you tell me what Dexia's positions are in the United Kingdom? Do you confirm the figures quoted by the Tijd of 26 billion euros? What financial consequences could the Brexit announcement and its implementation have for Dexia? What has been put in place within Dexia to prevent the consequences of Brexit? Has the scenario of a lack of funding for Dexia due to Brexit been studied? What coverage has been provided for this purpose? What about Belfius? What is his exhibition in the United Kingdom? What consequences could a Brexit have on Belfius?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u154	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, since the announcement of the results of the referendum held in the United Kingdom, the National Bank of Belgium, the European Central Bank and the other central banks of the Eurosystem have been following the financial markets closely and doing so in close consultation. Similarly, the Eurosystem maintains close contacts with other central banks around the world. In a press release, the European Central Bank announced that it is ready to inject additional liquidity in both euro and foreign currency where necessary. It has prepared itself for this outcome in close cooperation with the financial sectors it controls. Financial institutions had taken various measures, including liquidity measures, to anticipate the potential shock of a Brexit. They consider that, in general, the financial system of the euro area is immune from this type of shock both in terms of capital and in terms of liquidity. At present, Brexit is not on the agenda of the ECOFIN Council on 12 July, but the agenda is still likely to be completed in the coming days. As far as the results of Brexit are concerned, it is what it is. On 23 June, the British were able to speak democratically. It is now necessary to negotiate with the United Kingdom but without a spirit of revenge in order to reach an agreement acceptable to both the European Union and the British. You are also referring to my so-called anti-European convictions. To adopt a critical attitude is, in your opinion, to be part of the "anti". I dispute that, it is not correct. The European Union, like its Member States, is founded on democratic principles. One of the key features of a healthy democracy is that criticism can be made in order to achieve better and more broadly supported solutions. As far as Dexia is concerned, I can confirm that Dexia's exposure in the United Kingdom is indeed EUR 26 billion, almost half of which is in the local public sector. This €26 billion exhibition includes €13 billion on the local public sector and €9 billion on corporate counterparties and financing of projects mainly related to the public sector. This wallet is of very good quality. This is 97% exposure to what is called investment grade. What financial consequences could the Brexit announcement and its implementation have for Dexia? In terms of credit, Dexia's exposures to counterparties, including utilities, are a priori not sensitive to the consequences of an exit from the United Kingdom from the European Union. Exposure to sovereign risk is negligible. Dexia will closely monitor these exposures to counterparties in the United Kingdom. More broadly, the impact of the results of this referendum on markets will take time to be fully understood. In the coming days and in the medium term, Dexia will pay particular attention to developments, in particular the high volatility of interest rate exchange rates, which have been declining sharply since Friday. What has been put in place within Dexia to prevent the consequences of Brexit? The United Kingdom's vote in favour of exit from the European Union is in the immediate future likely to disrupt access to the refinancing market in sterling. In a cautious approach, Dexia has protected itself against this scenario by developing for three years a dedicated programme of long-term financing in sterling. Finally, as far as Belfius is concerned, I asked for the information from Belfius. I haven't gotten them yet. As soon as I receive them, I'll send them to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u155	I thank the Minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u156	Mr Minister, I understand that the subject is not on the agenda of the next ECOFIN, but I think that Belgium could take the initiative. We'll see it in the next few days, financial markets react uncontrollably. It may be necessary to implement exceptional measures. As far as Dexia is concerned, I understand that you are not worried about the quality of its exposure and the long-term refinancing measures that have been taken. However, I ask you, together with the representatives of the Belgian State in Dexia, to pay attention to the time bomb that is Brexit in Dexia.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u157	Mr President, Minister, the Law of 3 July 2005 on the Rights of Volunteers defines, in its Article 3.3, an organization that may involve volunteers as "any de facto association or legal person governed by public or private law, not for profit". Paragraph 4 of the circular of 5 March 1999 on the tax system of allowances for voluntary activities further states that "volunteer activity shall be carried out on behalf of a club, federation, association, non-profit institution or public service". According to the circular, "in particular, companies, associations, institutions or institutions which engage in exploitation or transactions of a lucrative nature and which are subject to corporate tax shall not be admitted as such". This definition of the circular, however, does not correspond very much to the practical reality of the field. Many volunteers, all the more so during this period of the year, work each year for public events organised by non-profit organisations which regularly use private subcontractors to carry out certain tasks requiring special expertise and which directly serve the aims of the activity. However, according to the associations concerned which are very concerned, the services of the National Employment Office (ONEM) would now consider the possibility of prohibiting voluntary members of sports clubs or cultural associations from carrying out the above-mentioned services. Such a decision would deprive such associations of a return of money, which is essential to balance often very tight budgets, and would directly threaten the survival of many of these local associations. Minister, I am asking you this question because the ONEM is going to take this step, or not – and I would prefer it not to be so – under the circulars that flow from the application of the law that I have just mentioned. Do you intend to adapt the circular to allow volunteer activity as part of a private subcontracting carried out for the benefit of the ASBL organizing a public event? This is a real subject that comes back very often and I am not sure that the original intention was to achieve this result.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u158	Ms Jadin, I would like to confirm that the administrative circular on the tax system for benefits received in connection with voluntary activities only applies to voluntary activities carried out on behalf of a club, federation, association, not-for-profit institution or public service. The tax directives in this area therefore do not diverge from the legal social provisions relating to the rights of volunteers. Moreover, the tax administration has taken as a rule the best respect for the harmony between the social and tax treatment of such volunteers. In the current state of social legislation on the rights of volunteers, I therefore do not intend to amend the circular in the sense that you are advocating. As for a possible legal amendment, the above-mentioned legislation does not fall within my competence, I do not think I can do any better than refer you to the minister responsible for social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u159	Your colleague has already received my question. I was convinced you could help me because the originality came from the circular. I believe that the resulting application, if implemented by the ONEM, is not appropriate. Of which act.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u160	Minister, it's been a long day. Those were the last questions before the parliamentary recess. There will therefore no longer be a meeting with questions. For those who still submit questions, they will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u161	Mr President, will all the questions that have now been postponed be converted into written questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-06-54-commissie-ic465x.u162	A number of questions have been postponed, but they will not be dealt with until September or October. These questions will be translated into written questions. We have gone to extremes today to deal with more than 50 questions.
