ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u1	Madam Chair, Deputy Prime Minister, my two questions were dated August 29 and 30. I'm going to make a combination of both because, in the meantime, a lot has happened. The Minister of Economy, Vice-Chancellor and Leader of the Social Democratic Party in the German government, Sigmar Gabriel, announced on 28 August the failure of the TTIP negotiations. In an interview with the ZDF TV channel, he explained that "negotiations with the USA have de facto failed because we Europeans did not want to comply with American requirements". On 30 August, on French radio, RMC, French Secretary of State for Foreign Trade Matthias Fekl said: "There is no longer any political support from France for these negotiations" or, later, "France calls for a halt to these negotiations". These two important statements took place while, on 23 June, the citizens of the United Kingdom voted in a referendum against the retention of their country in the European Union. In addition, the Commission's and Council's stated objective was to finalize the TTIP negotiations before the end of the second term of office of US President Obama. The presidential elections are taking place today. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, could you detail the points of divergence - which the German Vice-Chancellor admits to be "American requirements" - that the European partners did not want to submit to? If Mr Gabriel refers to this, I assume that these requirements have been discussed in the Council, where you sit. At this particularly troubled time for the European Union – I am of course thinking of Brexit – does it not seem to you better to radically change its strategy and concentrate the energies of the national and European institutions on a social and ecological deepening of the Union rather than to persist in this free-trader forward flight which has now shown with fracs its ability to further keep European citizens away from the European project? Finally, as far as France and Germany are concerned, will Belgium follow its main political and economic allies in this endeavour to halt the negotiations on the transatlantic treaty?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u2	Madam President, Minister, my questions are also two months old and are therefore dated. I would therefore like to adjust them a little. It is often said that CETA is the little brother of TTIP. Now there's a period of wind silence. We can say that it is clear that there can be no serious negotiations around TTIP until there is a new President in the United States. Perhaps the result of the elections that are taking place in France and Germany will still be important. Mr Minister, since CETA is the little brother of TTIP, it is important that we be able to clarify as soon as possible the compatibility of the International Court System incorporated in CETA and also in the TTIP with the European treaties. The CETA agreement concluded between the Belgian Federal Government and the Walloon Government states that a legal opinion will be requested from the European Court of Justice. Mr Minister, I would like to concentrate my questions on that provision. First of all, where are we with that? Secondly, who will submit that question? Is that, I presume, the federal government? Who will be the Minister responsible? To whom should we turn? Is that to you or perhaps to the Minister of Justice? Thirdly, I would urge that we take the matter very seriously. Belgium is one of the founding countries of the European Union. Minister, I know you as a true European. The question that will be put to the European Court of Justice is whether we continue to believe in the European legal order, which is based on the fact that the European Court of Justice monitors the interpretation of European regulations in the most diverse areas by means of preliminary rulings. These are interpretations taken in national courts and national colleges. The guardian of the European legal order is the European Court of Justice. In addition, if the ICS creates a new legal order which, outside the European legal order, can be challenged on the initiative of a large company on the basis of a national rule which arises from European directives, for example, or if even European legislation could be challenged, then the European Court of Justice will lose that guardian role of the European legal order and we risk undermining that European legal order. By this I mean, let us use the wind silence that exists around the TTIP. I don't think the fundamentalist free traders have given up. They will try, if necessary after the elections in Germany, to bring the TTIP back to life. However, let us take advantage of that period to request that legal opinion from the European Court of Justice as soon as possible as a country so that we do not run the risk that CETA or TTIP have been approved first and that the European Court of Justice subsequently says that these two conventions are contrary to the European legal order.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u3	Madam President, Minister, my questions will be somewhat different from those asked by my colleagues, although they also concern the remarks made by German Minister Sigmar Gabriel. Indeed, at the end of August, the latter stated that the TTIP negotiations had de facto failed. His French counterpart, for his part, had indicated France's willingness to withdraw from it. This had given rise to a certain stir within the European Union. Can we, Minister, get more detailed information on the progress of the negotiations? What is the nature of any blockages? Do you confirm the organisation of a forthcoming meeting of the Foreign Trade Ministers of the 27 Member States of the European Union? Finally, if so, what will be the government's position on the possibility of suspension of TTIP negotiations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u4	Madam President, Minister, I will not repeat the statements made by German or French ministers who have already been mentioned by my colleagues. We were at the end of August. Sigmar Gabriel, in particular, spoke of de facto failure. We were thinking that they had heard the wind of the protest that is blowing in Europe, and that they would come back to these CETA and TTIP treaties. Except...!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u5	Not on CETA!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u6	At the time they said that, it was in any case TTIP. You're absolutely right, Mrs. Jadin. Always, by the way! You note very well, precisely, that it was a matter of making the CETA easier to pass on and that that is why they had these reservations about the TTIP. Mr Minister, we have heard you criticise, if not more, the TTIP when it comes to passing the CETA. Except in the meantime, Sigmar Gabriel welcomed Hillary Clinton's potential victory for the future of TTIP. Maybe it's a little premature. This seems to confirm that the earlier statements were intended to make it easier to swallow CETA. Mr Minister, what is ultimately your position on TTIP and what is the European position following the Bratislava Council that took place last September? Will the TTIP mandate be renegotiated following the lively discussions on CETA? Belgium has undertaken to go to the European Court of Justice concerning the arbitration mechanism under CETA. Do you have any clarifications on this procedure? Above all, what would be the effect on the TTIP of a negative opinion of the Court, given the American position and the law of the same State? Lastly, was it true that some States had advocated the resumption of negotiations under a new name?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u7	It may be useful first and foremost to repeat one or two points. CETA is now a treaty signed by all Member States, an agreement, after it has been negotiated since 2009. I signed it, as well as the European Commission and Canada. The Treaty must now go through the ratification process. The TTIP is still under negotiation. There is no agreement and there is therefore no text of a possible treaty. After three years of negotiations, we see the differences between the two partners. It is therefore very difficult to say that CETA is a son of TTIP. The TTIP is three years old and CETA is seven years old. I have always said that a good CETA provides very good protection against a potentially bad TTIP. We now have a model, a standard, with very broad democratic approval by many parliaments, with broad majorities. Even in the Walloon Parliament, CETA was approved by more than two thirds. We now have very broad democratic support from different parliaments. It was very interesting for me to see that so many Members of Parliament gave a positive response to CETA on the same day. This made it possible to sign the agreement. As far as the European Court of Justice is concerned, there is an agreement. In a statement with our fellow Members from the Länder, we have stated that we will ask the European Court if the new ICS is in conformity with the Treaties. We are now conducting an investigation to answer those different questions. Who will do that, in what form? I asked the Directorate-General for Europe of my department. We will continue with the proper implementation of this commitment; indeed, there is already a question before the Court, albeit only from the Commission, concerning a treaty with Singapore. A positive response from the Court in relation to Singapore, an older form of arbitration, may also be a positive answer to our question, even if it is another form of arbitration. In any case, we are prepared to put that question to the Court. I have therefore asked my administration to carry out a specific investigation into this matter. We'll start the procedure. As far as the positions of the various governments are concerned, I would first like to point out that in Belgium, during the previous parliamentary term, in May 2013, the Belgian government, together with its 27 European partners, pleaded in favour of transatlantic trade negotiations leading to a Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, i.e. the ambitious, balanced and inclusive TTIP. At the informal Trade Council in Bratislava, on 22 and 23 September, I did indeed join the majority of my colleagues in advocating the continuation of the negotiations, on the express condition that they would enable an ambitious, balanced and inclusive agreement to be reached, as already called for in 2013. This was already the case from the outset for the mandate of the negotiations, without setting a deadline. It took six, seven years to conclude with Canada - a partner of less than 40 million people. It is obvious that negotiations with a partner of more than 300 million consumers, who is a global power like the United States, will take a little time. And I am always surprised that we want to give the impression that in two or three years, everything should be closed down with the United States, when, I repeat, it took six or seven with a respectable partner but of a different size like Canada. With regard to each other's statements, I can only say that this is the line that was confirmed by the 28 Heads of State and Government in their conclusions adopted on 21 October, where the European Council also calls on the European Commission to continue negotiations with the United States authorities so that an ambitious, balanced and comprehensive free trade agreement can be presented. You will therefore allow me not to comment on the discussions in the various coalitions in other countries. I already have enough discussions in the coalition in Belgium. If you're wondering why a minister disagreed with his Chancellor or another with his President, write to them, but I'm not going to take a decision on the matter. I simply note that all the Heads of State and Government adopted the position which was that of not only Belgium, but of the majority of ministers at the informal Council, which, on the other hand, could not take a decision in Bratislava in September. But it is always very interesting to try to understand the reasons why coalitions sometimes have tensions or moments of divergence within them. In any case, I note that the position of all participants in the European Council was the same. In terms of European expectations, Belgium specifically wants a greater US ambition in the area of market access, in particular for the Belgian maritime services sector and public procurement in general - for the time being, there is no such openness -; further progress in the context of regulatory cooperation, in particular as regards sanitary and phytosanitary measures, as well as regulation and cooperation for the export of pharmaceutical products; further work on the development of new trade rules, particularly a more ambitious chapter on sustainable development and ILO standards, as well as on facilitating the integration of SMEs into transatlantic trade. The 15th round of negotiations, which took place in New York from 3 to 7 October, was generally described as positive. However, it has not made any substantial progress on the points I have just mentioned. The next Foreign Trade Council on 11 November will be an opportunity to give new guidance on the TTIP before the transitional period leading to the new US presidential administration. It is obvious that we are going to meet a period of waiting between the election currently taking place in the United States and the establishment of the new administration, knowing that in the same period there will also be elections in March in the Netherlands, in the spring the presidential elections in France and then the elections in Germany. There will most likely be a year of transition. But, as the European Commission and the European Council have repeated, negotiations will continue on the basis of the rounds of negotiations which the new US administration will be ready to resume. As I said, we have a number of requests. Beyond these demands, CETA, which fortunately convinced everyone or a large majority in all our parliaments, is a good guarantee to allow us to move towards a correct text of the future TTIP. This gives standards in a series of areas, which we will try to develop also in partnership with the United States. When will we end? I don't know. It took six or seven years to conclude with Canada; there were only two or three years of negotiations with the United States; it seems to me quite logical that it takes a little longer. We will also see how the United States will evolve its other negotiations, particularly on the Pacific side. It will also depend on the new US administration. As regards the Trade Council of 18 October and the points we have defended, I reminded my colleagues that European diversity had the advantage of bringing about a Belgian mix in the treatment of CETA and, in this context, I recalled the decisions which had involved the various levels of power concerned in Belgium. I also thanked the Commission for its participation in parliamentary hearings at all levels: federal and federated. Commissioner Malmström and her Director-General have, at my request, participated in a series of debates in the regional parliaments, where, by the way, most of the questions, if not all, were about TTIP and not about CETA, as I have heard a lot lately. This is reflected in parliamentary documents. However, I indicated that at this stage the Federal Government and the Flemish Region confirmed their willingness to sign the CETA but that this was not the case for the other federated entities, which prevented Belgium as a whole from signing on a national basis and from agreeing to the signature by the European Union. I recalled my call, at the opening of the discussions of the informal ministerial meeting in Bratislava on 23 September 2016, in support of the idea of an interpretative declaration jointly prepared by the Commission and Canada, both on the substance - clarifications necessary for legitimate concerns, social and environmental standards, the functioning of the ICS, public services and of general interest and other elements; these clarifications were expressed not only in Belgium, in other countries as well, by a large number of citizens - and on the form concerning the legal force and the association of Member States through the Council to this type of declaration. This desire to make the declaration and other declarations binding has been confirmed, in particular through the adoption by the Council and the publication of these various texts. I welcomed the Council's statement that the provisional application of CETA must be stopped if the constitutional process of a Member State results in the definitive failure of ratification. I had indeed obtained the explicit confirmation from the Council's legal service that this provision would apply to the Belgian constitutional model and in particular to the responsibility assigned to the parliament of the federated entities. The debate concerned, on the one hand, the blockage which could occur on the part of the Karlsruhe Constitutional Court in Germany and, on the other hand, the same block which could arise from the application of constitutional processes in any country of the European Union: in our country, in the framework of a mixed treaty, that is, the competence to ratify all entities. In other countries, other concerns were raised. I am thinking in particular of a long suspension of the sitting requested by our Dutch neighbours, who, on some texts, have held a consultative referendum. On this basis, I thanked my colleagues for their understanding, after a few hours of discussion on Tuesday, and confirmed the continuation of consultations at the federal level with the Commission and the federated entities. These consultations enabled Belgium to agree on the signing of CETA on 28 October. This agreement was embodied in the European signing, at the European Union-Canada Summit on 30 October, one day earlier, by my signing of the CETA on behalf of Belgium. Following the agreement reached at the Conciliation Committee on 27 October, Belgium will seek an opinion from the European Court of Justice on the compatibility of the ICS with the European Treaty. In addition, this point was reflected in the unilateral statement, which Belgium attached to the decision to sign the CETA on behalf of the European Union. My services, and those of the Prime Minister, have been seized of the matter. We are examining at the CEO how to organize the introduction of this application, which will actually be carried out. For further work, the Commission is determined to continue the discussion. Several states, including Belgium, want to ask for a number of very concrete advances with regard to TTIP, but it is very likely that we will have to wait for a new US administration to see when and in what form to resume the next round of negotiations, if I am not mistaken, with regard to a possible TTIP.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u8	The merit of all this debate on CETA, which lasted for 15 days, is that it will have improved the transparency and the general public's knowledge of a subject hitherto confined to the Councils, to the regional and national governments, and even to the federal government, and in our committee, or even in plenary. You say that CETA has not been the subject of much discussion. Not as much as TTIP, it's true, not as much. But it was discussed because, no later than 3 March last, we had tabled a resolution, which came back to plenary on the same day and was rejected, but which provided for...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u9	(...) At the level of regional parliaments... Have I spoken to you about the motion of regional parliaments? It has been questioned - you will be able to consult parliamentary documents - almost exclusively on the title.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u10	Here in the Chamber, she was also questioned about CETA. With regard to the opinion requested of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the incompatibility of CETA provisions, this is an element which we had promoted in a resolution and we are very pleased today to be joined, including by you, a proposal which was quite violently rejected on 3 March by the majority. Today, the CETA that has been signed, the TTIP and the TiSA, which are still under negotiation, represent for us the Greens, a three-headed hydra. It is, as you have said, a model for all future treaties concerning the European Union's trade policy. The objective is not just a free trade treaty that aims to remove trade barriers and develop trade, it aims to remove non-trade barriers that constitute norms that hinder free trade, which is profoundly different from our political habits. Today began COP22. We signed an agreement at COP21, which calls on all countries in the world to move towards a drastic reduction in greenhouse gases to achieve global warming that will not exceed two or even one and a half degrees. I note here a terrible contradiction with the proposed policy on free trade and the removal of non-tariff barriers. The intensification of trade between very remote areas will increase the emission of pollutants and CO2 and is contrary to the principles that we signed at COP21 and will soon ratify. I believe that it is time to concentrate on deepening the European Union rather than expanding it without applying the current rules, which is what these free trade treaties represent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u11	I would like to ask the Minister once again to seek the opinion of the European Court of Justice as soon as possible. I don't know if I understood you correctly, but I would advise you not to wait for a ruling in the Singapore case. The Singapore case was a case dealing with whether that treaty is an exclusive European competence or a mixed one. The question that Belgium has to ask is: is ICS compatible with or not compatible with the European treaties, whatever the outcome of the Singapore case. There are only two possibilities. Either it is said to be a mixed competence and then it has no impact at all on CETA. Either it is said to be an exclusive European competence, but that still does not mean that the question arises as to whether the treaty that provides for an ICS and which is catalogued as exclusive European competence is compatible with the European treaties. The question remains. I urge you not only to do it quickly, but also not to sign and therefore not to complete the ratification process until there is clarity on the position of the Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe and on the legal opinion of the European Court of Justice. If any of those conventions were ratified, it would not be TTIP, but CETA would have been ratified and then either the Karlsruhe Court or the Court of Luxembourg will decide that those conventions are not compatible with the European legal order, then there is what I call the "zombie clause', which ensures that for twenty years foreign investors can still rely on the treaty declared incompatible with the European legal order by the Karlsruhe Court or the Court of Luxembourg. Colleagues, that is what these texts say: if one of the parties is unable to comply with its obligations under the Treaty, companies will have the right to invoke those conventions for 20 years. That is why the legal opinion should be requested by the European Court of Justice as soon as possible. We owe this to ourselves and certainly to those who keep to the European construction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u12	Madam Chair, Minister, I would like to thank you for your clarification. The answer you gave us is very well documented. Having said that, I share your emotion. Indeed, the Walloon Region has finally understood, with its strength and vigour, the interest of supporting CETA.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u13	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u14	No. With a very important democratic force. There were many debates. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u15	It is true that the members of the PTB are not widely heard; I had forgotten this aspect. I'd like to say "all for this." I'm not talking about CETA, minister. I'm talking about TTIP. Indeed, if we look at all events chronologically, starting from the mandate – we talked a lot about it in committee, we even drew up a resolution on the subject – which also sets out the red lines that should not be exceeded in the current negotiations or not, we could have known what was going to happen. Everyone knew when the U.S. election would come. Everyone also knew that very important elections would take place in Europe in the next two years. As far as we are concerned, elections will be held in two and a half years' time. It is obvious that things will not happen, as some have suggested, within two or three years. Are the questions that arise today, knowingly, in the light of the mandates we know, legitimate or not? I don't know. I think it is in our best interest to continue to negotiate forcefully, speaking of a unanimous voice at European level in order to be able to determine our standards. As you said, Minister, there is still some reluctance at the level of the United States to access certain public procurements. It is clear that we have every interest in defending our interests at European level. It is about the future of our economic fabric, of our small and medium-sized enterprises and of European industry.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u16	Mr Minister, I thank you for having confirmed, more or less implicitly, the manoeuvre which was that of some representatives of the German and French governments to make the CETA more easily passed, by criticising or even almost condemning the TTIP. I did not understand, because you hesitated, if in Bratislava, you spoke of unanimity or majority. You seemed to be hesitant between the two terms.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u17	Majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u18	Majority, so not unanimous. It would be interesting to know the positions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u19	At home, the position was the same between the Minister of Trade and the Prime Minister. Elsewhere, I can't guarantee it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u20	Can we know what the dissonant voices were?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u21	No, because the meeting was informal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u22	I can understand. Mr Minister, you have not answered – but you are going to tell me that the question does not arise immediately – at my request to know what would happen if the Court of Justice replied negatively. Yet the question is interesting. Finally, Mr Minister, if I can advise you to read the resolutions of the regional parliaments on the TTIP in time because you seem to discover these resolutions at the last minute, within the framework of CETA. Perhaps on the TTIP, it would be good to go ahead and see what the opposition already exists at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u23	Madam President, Minister, I have just said that I was disturbed by the fact that I did not hear a Belgian voice in the debate that broke loose in Europe about the future of European defence. I remember that Belgium has always been one of the triggers of this debate on European defence. I remember calling upon the banners of many countries at the beginning of this century during the Belgian Presidency when we advocated a European headquarters for defence. I note that, after the Brexit, there is suddenly an uproar of plans to create a European defence. The Italians, the French and the Germans are launching plans. Even the Hungarians and the Baltic States are launching plans. However, whom we do not hear from in this debate is Belgium. I have two questions. First of all, why am I not hearing from Belgium? Why are we stupid in this debate? Secondly, what is our country's position on the initiatives of Germany and France, for example, in my opinion, the most credible initiatives to finally develop a European defence?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u24	Madam President, Mr Van der Maelen, following the outcome of the Brexit referendum and the publication of the EU's global strategy, the debate on the future of European defence has been given a new impetus. France and Germany have taken a leading role in the debate on the development of an overall strategy in the field of security and defence, taking into account the high priority given to this by the High Representative Mogherini. Ms Mogherini was a requesting party to move forward in the field of defence. The two countries argue for a comprehensive, realistic and credible defence in the European Union and formulate a number of proposals in this respect. France and Germany do not advocate the creation of a European army. In view of the UK's departure from the EU, they wish to strengthen the common security and defence policy with all 27 Member States. In addition, in order to accelerate and/or deepen integration in certain areas, permanent structured cooperation is proposed as an option, in which Member States can participate voluntarily. In opinion papers, the Italian Foreign and Defence Ministers have called for the strengthening of European defence. The Treaty offers the possibility through PESCO (Permanent Structured Cooperation) to speed up the process with a number of Member States, but the decision-making process in this area is complex. They therefore propose that, outside the Convention, a number of Member States would share their military capacity on the basis of an ad hoc agreement, which would allow other Member States to join, similar to Schengen. Belgium is in favour of exploiting the full potential offered by the Lisbon Treaty. Firstly, efforts should be made to make progress, where possible, in the security and defence field with all Member States together. If more flexible decision-making proves necessary, enhanced cooperation or PESCO can bring added value. Existing forms of cooperation outside the Convention, such as the euro corps, can also further strengthen EU capacity. Belgium welcomes these initiatives and participates constructively in the other reinforcement of the CSDP based on a tradition of voluntarism and realism. Our country continues to advocate a more inclusive, efficient and effective European defence. However, Belgian budgetary reality also leads us to a more modest attitude in the debate. Closer cooperation is primarily aimed at those Member States that are willing to make greater efforts in the fields of contributions, investment and Burden Sharing. Within the resources available, therefore, it will be necessary to examine where an appropriate contribution can be made. All Member States contributed to the preparation of an implementation plan of the High Representative in the field of security and defence, which will be presented at the next Foreign Affairs Council. I repeat that this has always been Belgium's position, and that is our position within NATO. We are also trying to improve cooperation with all European countries. Within NATO, it will also be possible to go further with Great Britain, even after the Brexit.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u25	Minister, I remember that we will cooperate positively on all the plans in this regard. You referred, like me, to the German-French initiative as the most credible. I'm pleased to hear that. You also referred to the budgetary problems, which I think should be an incentive to seize them with both hands, now that there is an opportunity for accelerated European integration in the field of defence. The numbers are known. The 28 EU Member States together spend on average 270 billion dollars in recent years. All studies show that the return on each dollar or euro invested in defence in Europe is less than 50% compared to the return on each dollar invested in the United States. All this is a result of unnecessary overlaps, double infrastructure, too many generals and army headquarters and so on. So if we want to achieve maximum return from every euro invested in defence, then we must stop trying to create a somewhat smaller national army than in the past, as unfortunately the Secretary of Defense's strategic vision is trying to do, and we must resolutely opt for the European track. From discussions with the Minister of Defence, I believe that he is still not fully convinced of this and that he is holding on to what is in his strategic vision. However, a government and a parliament with some vision see that the only credible slope is an enlarged and strengthened European defence. I trust that this government will play a more voluntaristic role in the efforts being made at present.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u26	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, through the conclusions of a White Paper commissioned by the US Secretary of State for the Treasury, Jack Lew, the US government, on 24 August 2016, warned the European Commission of potential reprisals if it "exceeded its powers by becoming a supranational tax authority". Indeed, since an infringement procedure was launched against Ireland for its very favourable tax regime for web multinationals and also for its "tailor-made" tax arrangements with them, the European executive is threatening to claim US$ 19 billion from Apple as a fine for unpaid taxes. This case under investigation is the most important ever dealt with by the Commission in the matter of organised circumvention of the tax. The US Treasury accuses the Commission of "modifying its role as guarantor of rules to combat state aid and thus maintain competition within the market in a new function, that of a supranational tax authority, capable of intervening in setting Member States' tax levels". Strangely enough, this threat of retaliation was made by the US Treasury Secretary while on 13 July 2016, he met with the European Commissioner for Competition, Margrethe Vestager, on transatlantic cooperation. This meeting had been described as excellent by those interested on social networks. However, the Commissioner had already initiated tax collection proceedings for similar reasons with regard to Starbucks, a US multinational company, and also with the European Fiat-Chrysler group. They had indeed benefited from the tax burden of Luxembourg and the Netherlands. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, can you assure us that Belgium, in the Council, shares the same view and therefore gives its full support to the Commissioner responsible for competition in this sensitive matter? Does not this threat of retaliation by the US Government for a European policy that is particularly fair, legitimate and redistributive to the European Union prompt you to redouble your efforts to implement a system of dispute settlement reserved for multinationals in the possible future transatlantic trade treaty?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u27	My colleague, the European Commission has launched investigations into state aid granted by several Member States via the tax channel to multinationals. On 30 August, the Commission concluded that Ireland had granted Apple tax benefits amounting to EUR 13 billion. According to the Commission, this practice is illegal under EU state aid rules as it has enabled Apple to pay significantly less taxes than other companies. In this case, it is for the Commission, as guardian of the Treaties, to carry out the necessary investigations with a view to detecting any State aid granted through tax advantages. Therefore, it is not for Belgium to interfere in this matter. However, this is a delicate matter, at the margin between the areas of competition and taxation, which was discussed at the informal meeting of Finance Ministers in Bratislava last September. However, Belgium recalls its commitment to the application of State aid rules, which it considers to be instruments capable of modernising competition policy, provided that competition policy does not distort competition and the internal market. In this context, Belgium calls on the Commission, in compliance with, inter alia, European state aid rules, to take due account of legal certainty, which is essential for the proper functioning of companies. I have also taken note of your concerns about possible retaliatory measures on the American side, although at the moment it is not yet possible to know whether the government intends to implement these measures or in what form. We will wait until we see the establishment of a new US government to find out more. However, the European Commission's negotiation with the United States of a new investment system – Investment Court System – under the TTIP does not in any way create more rights for multinationals. On the contrary, this new system would allow a balance between, on the one hand, high protection for Belgian and European investors – particularly our SMEs, which are explicitly provided for in the new system – against possible discriminatory measures in the United States, and, on the other hand, the full maintenance of the right to regulate and legislate by the authorities concerned at European, national and regional level – which also guarantees the maintenance of a very high protection system. In any case, as I have told you, as far as the TTIP is concerned, we are in stages of negotiations that will resume when this year's elections end. It will take a few months to have a new US administration and, probably, new governments in several European countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u28	Minister, while there is not yet a treaty, as has been said earlier, the threats from the United States have been significant. They weren't even veiled. An American minister has allowed himself to threaten the European Union with sanctions if it persists in a policy which, I repeat, is fair, redistributive and entirely legitimate. I congratulate Belgium on maintaining this position in the Council and on supporting the Commission in its efforts to maintain this policy. There is not even an ICS (International Court System) that governments are already relying on the strength of their multinationals to threaten. Here we agree that the ad hoc system does not yet exist. Yes, governments are threatening! So imagine: while there is no system that favours multinationals, they are already favoured. The U.S. government is threatening. We already see that the strength of multinationals means that today governments threaten other structures when there is not yet an ad hoc international court system for multinationals that would favour them. Today, multinationals are already strong enough to push an important government to pursue a tax policy that is totally contrary to the principle of equality and other principles of adequate tax policies. This must light the orange fire in our consciences before it is red. Multinationals are already being particularly defended. It is not a question of giving them an additional way, or an ad hoc court, to enable them to defend their interests, but also their advantages over other bodies, be they States or SMEs. The latter, of course, cannot afford such threats, either by a government or, in the future, by an ad hoc court of justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u29	Madam President, Minister, last July Brussels Airlines decided to withdraw from the meal trays it serves on its flights between Tel Aviv and Brussels, a dessert made in an Israeli company located in the colony of Barkan, in the West Bank, therefore in the occupied territory of Palestine. Distributing this product contributes to the promotion of illegal economic activity under international law. The Belgian airline's spokesman then told the press "that this was a fault of the supplier. We have since corrected it." This decision was so publicised in Israel that the Belgian company was threatened with boycott. The Israeli Minister of Tourism even demanded the exclusion of the Belgian airline from Israeli airspace. On 29 August 2016, Brussels Airlines therefore reverted to its original decision and reinstated the illegal service in its offer. The company's communications department then declared: "In consultation with the Israeli government, we decided to correct our fault" and to add "the decision to withdraw this product, which was properly labelled, was not the right one, because it was not politically neutral". Minister, throughout these debates, has Brussels Airlines contacted the FPS Foreign Affairs to ask for its opinion and/or support? Did the SPF give him any? Has the Israeli government contacted our embassy in Tel Aviv on this matter? This sad case shows once again that labelling policy is poorly applied in Belgium and Europe. Could you tell me whether, in this particular case, the labelling was in line with the European requirements which our country has courageously, at your initiative, chosen to follow and which recommends the indication "West Bank product (Israeli colonia)" on each commodity concerned? Finally, in view of this disastrous experience for a major Belgian company, do you not think that the Belgian position should be changed in this respect? Indeed, in the absence of a national or European rule allowing the prohibition of the sale of these illegally manufactured products, private actors are directly exposed in the event of the marketing or non-marketing of these products. A trade ban would not only allow our country to be in line with the constant jurisprudence of the various United Nations bodies, but would protect our companies from attacks such as those observed this summer against Brussels Airlines.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u30	Minister, Mr Benoit Hellings has already outlined the situation and told us what happened. I shall therefore confine myself to my questions. I have four questions. First of all, do you think Brussels Airlines did the right thing? Why did she act correctly or not? The fact is that society knowingly sells a mislabeled product from an Israeli settlement. Secondly, what is your opinion on the Israeli response to Brussels Airlines' decision? Has Israel contacted the State Department about the case? Have there been any demarches at our embassy in Tel Aviv? Thirdly, did your Ministry advise or assist Brussels Airlines in any way? Have you instructed our diplomacy to act in favour of our national airline? Fourthly, do you see a clear ban on products from illegal Israeli settlements instead of the current labelling directive?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u31	Madam President, Minister, I would like to thank Mr Hellings and Mr De Vriendt for mentioning the questions I had put in their question. So I do not need to repeat them and I agree with both of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to point out that Brussels Airlines is a private company and not a public company. So she's completely autonomous in her decisions. As long as the rules in force are complied with, Brussels Airlines may decide for itself what it offers its passengers. You may be aware that, under existing legislation, it is not prohibited to offer products from the Israeli colonies to customers. In addition, the European rules on the indication of origin of the product apply to imports of products within the European Union. They therefore strictly do not apply to meals served on flights to Europe. Furthermore, it is not the responsibility of the Belgian Government to give a subsequent ruling on the merits of a commercial decision taken by a private company. Brussels Airlines did indeed contact my services, purely to inform them of the situation. The company did not request advice or receive any advice, except a reference to the website of the FPS Economy, which describes the applicable regulations. So far, we have remained with the same rules, without any amendment to them. However, I would like to make this clear: it is clear that this case has been set up on both sides, to such an extent that, whatever the decision the company may still take, it will be immediately dedicated to gemonies by either party. Without commenting on the merits of Brussels Airlines' decision, since, I repeat, it is not for me to do so, I would like to express here more generally the permanence and solidity of my support and that of the government to the management and employees of this company.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u33	Mr Minister, Brussels Airlines is no longer a national company with a fully public shareholder, but finally, SFPI is a shareholder. So part of the ownership of this company is public, is federal. There is still an involvement of the Belgian federal government in the management of this company. But that's not the point! The fact is that today, the blurring of the labelling of colonial products is not only damaging to respect for international law – which we knew for a long time – but also to the economic interests of our companies. Today, Brussels Airlines has been put into difficulty on the Israeli market, because the rules that apply to it are unclear. As you have said, it is not forbidden in our country to sell a product that has been manufactured in an area illegally occupied under international law, namely the territories occupied by Israel in Palestine. This is a problem that is no longer just a democratic problem. It is no longer just a problem that concerns the United Nations or the European Union. It's a problem that looks at our businesses. I think, as I said to your colleague in charge of economics, with whom you have worked on these guidelines, that it is time to think about another way of operating these products. We must be able to think about a ban, because labelling, even if it is a good first step, is a problem for our companies and puts them in difficulties that we can no longer afford to know in the future. Like a number of lawyers in Europe, I think it is time to consider a ban. But of course, this takes time, since it will be a matter of creating the conditions for a ban that is both feasible and fair.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u34	Minister, I think you should have taken a stand on this matter. One of our private companies is being pressured by a foreign government to change its policy. One of our private companies, Brussels Airlines, has been pressured by the Israeli Minister of Tourism to refrain from applying the EU labelling directive. Brussels Airlines took the dessert off the menu because it did not follow the EU labelling directive. The company was put under pressure by the Israeli government. In fact, the Israeli authorities say that one of our private companies does not follow this EU labelling directive. This is certainly in the context of a diplomatic incident in which you, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, could have responded. Furthermore, I have not received an answer from you to my last question, in particular whether you see a clear ban on products coming from illegal Israeli settlements, rather than the current labelling directive. This is a question to go a step further in the policy of differentiation. As you know, we are not calling for a boycott of Israel, but for a boycott of products coming from illegal settlements in the Palestinian area. Do you have an opinion on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u35	You're talking about new regulations. We maintain the current rules. I know your point of view, but we should not always follow you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u36	It's okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u37	But I didn't always say that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u38	It's okay. It's okay. It's okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u39	It's possible sometimes, but not always. We maintain the current rules on labelling. European rules for the import of products into the EU strictly do not apply to meals served on flights to Europe. This is not about import. Even a dessert is usually eaten during flight. There is therefore no need to respond to Israel because there is no violation of a European rule. It may be very technical, but sometimes, as with the TTIP, we have to be very precise. This is not about import.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u40	Madam President, Minister, I would like to take advantage of the wider debate we have had this morning. We have debated a broadening, a deepening of the differentiation policy. Since the Oslo Agreement, Europe has always chosen the root and has never dared to use the stick. Since the Oslo Agreement of 1993, Israel has created a place in the settlements for a total of 300 000 to 400 000, the figures vary, new additional settlers. This has always happened gradually, sometimes with 50, sometimes with 200, but every time that happened, Europe raised its finger and told Israel that it was not allowed to do so, that it was against international law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u41	So are we.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u42	So are we. Now there is a first, hesitant step towards a reaction and that is labelling of those products. It is clear that, since we introduced the labelling of products in Europe, Israel has no interest in it and continues to build more and more settlements. For me, the conclusion is clear. If Europe wants to remain credible in its story that respect for international law is the cornerstone of international law and our policy, and that is also what the government's government agreement states, then we must dare to go a step further than a non-binding regulation of labelling, which we are not learning now even as long as the products are still in the air and certainly not when they are already consumed. I therefore support the plea of my Green colleagues. There are many abuses. Many products enter Belgium, coming from companies located in the settlements. However, these companies have a mailbox in the legal part of Israel, within the borders of before 1967, and these products continue to enter. It is time for Europe to take action and not just condemn the creation of new settlements in words; we must also have tangible consequences for Israel. I am sorry that Brussels Airlines responded immediately to Israel's blackmail by withdrawing an earlier decision and again serving those pastries that, I think, are called Vanilla Halva.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u43	Debates of the European Parliament No 13359 by Mrs Nele Lijnen and others Mrs Els Van Hoof's 14537 have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u44	Madam President, Minister, the Nigerian army declared at the end of August that Abubakar Shekau was "fatally wounded" in an air raid aimed at a meeting of the leaders of the Islamist group Boko Haram. No independent source had confirmed this death. The Nigerian army's statement must therefore be given the utmost caution, especially since it is not the first time that Boko Haram's leader has died. Shekau would have returned to the front of the stage, since September, in a video where he appeared in perfect health. Boko Haram's elusive leader promised, in a video, to intensify his jihadist struggle, sweeping the internal divisions of the group, previously revealed. As a reminder, this Islamist group killed more than 20,000 people, made millions of displaced people and kidnapped tens of thousands of people. This organization must not be reborn from its ashes. Minister, how do you assess the current situation of Boko Haram in the region? What do you think of the relevance of this revelation? What are the geopolitical consequences of this declaration for the region? Do you think that the Nigerian authorities are making positive progress in the fight against this radical Islamist movement? What are the results of the recent operations carried out by the international task force, which, moreover, has received significant logistical support from the European Union and Belgium? You also mentioned the establishment of a large-scale programme aimed at the economic development of the Lake Chad region in partnership with the World Bank, the United Nations and the European Union, in which Belgium participates through its contribution to these international organisations. Can you give us more information about this one? What about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u45	Madam President, Mr Blanchart, it does seem that the joint struggle of the States of the Lake Chad Basin with the support of the international community has weakened the Boko Haram Group and forced it to change its strategy. Internal dissents or dissensions are associated with rumours that Daesh, to whom Boko Haram was allegiance in 2015, had intervened in the leadership of the Nigerian organization and had ruled out the former leader in favour of Abu Moussab al-Barnaoui, who would be related to the founder of Boko Haram, Mohamed Yusuf. According to the Nigerian army, Abubakar Shekau's death has not been confirmed. It is therefore premature to want to dance on his grave, as some do. If the former leader really disappeared from the scene, the consequences could indeed be formidable, but they remain difficult to read. Some factions may be more likely to join Daesh, while others may be more likely to join Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQMI) or al-Shabaab. It is difficult to predict whether a possible burst will weaken Boko Haram or, on the contrary, expand the jihadist network. A change in Boko Haram's leadership could lead to new attacks and stronger ties with Daesh. The organization could also start targeting government institutions, the Christian population, the Shia Muslim community or the Western presence in the region. Although the Nigerian authorities have managed to regain ground on the jihadist rebels in Boko Haram, the consequences for the people of north-eastern Nigeria are nevertheless worrying. I don't know if we can really talk about positive developments right now. A number of tools have been put in place; you have reminded them. Belgium is indeed in indirect support, notably through the contribution of the European Union, through an envelope of the African Peace Facility. On 11 October 2016, the Chiefs of Staff of the member countries of the Lake Chad Basin Commission (Cameroon, Niger, Chad, Nigeria and Benin) met in Niamey. The purpose of the meeting was to prepare for the final phase of the extraction of the terrorist group Boko Haram and to restore security in the area. You are probably referring to the Lake Chad Basin Sustainable Development Programme, PRODEBALT, initiated in 2009 and completed on 31 December 2015. This programme aimed at the rehabilitation and conservation of the productive capacities of the ecosystems of the Lake Chad Basin, in a context of adaptation of production systems to climate change. Belgium has contributed through its participation in the European Union's development cooperation programmes. I do not know if an evaluation of this programme exists, but it seems to me that it has already been closed. For more details, I would like to refer you to my colleague, the Minister for Development Cooperation, who must certainly have the information on the evaluation and the end of operations. So you see that this is a moderately optimistic analysis because there are indeed a number of developments, but probably still a major level of concern for the populations concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u46	Minister, thank you for taking stock of the situation, which remains a matter of great concern. Sixty thousand children could starve in the northeastern region of Nigeria by the end of the year. As for the aspect that you have developed, I will therefore appeal to your colleague, Mr. From Croo.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u47	The Chair: Colleagues, questions Nos. 13367, 13368, 13369 by Peter Luykx and 13370 by Barbara Pas are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u48	Minister, since the beginning of the crisis in 2011, the Syrian authorities have made extensive use of arbitrary detentions and enforced disappearances, resulting in tens of thousands of victims. Torture and inhumane treatment are slowing down the daily lives of detainees. Upon arrival, they are beaten with iron bars or electric cables. Their lack of access to food, water, sanitation and medical care contributes to the sharp increase in deaths in detention: more than 17,000 since this year. Moreover, the failure to consult a doctor and the failure to receive a visit from either the family or a lawyer constitute an enforced disappearance. These practices obviously violate international law and often constitute war crimes or even crimes against humanity, since they take place in the context of widespread and systematic attacks against the civilian population. Minister, while 30 August marked the International Day of Missing Persons, what steps have been taken by the various international bodies and by the European Union to urge Russia and the United States, which co-chairs the peace negotiations in Syria, to use their influence so that Syria can immediately and without restriction allow independent observers to visit all places of detention? How do these abuses affect the position of Belgian and European diplomacy on the follow-up to the political transition process in Syria, which will follow the fight against Daesh, and on the attitude to Assad, his regime and the abuses committed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u49	Madam President, Minister, this is Question 13490 and I was keen to withdraw it, as I believe that Belgium has voted in favour and that Belgium has done its best to convince other countries to vote in favour. Unfortunately, that was not possible, because two European countries that previously voted in favour do not do so now. I agree with Mr Blanchart's question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u50	Madam President, Minister, the situation in Syria remains dramatic and everyone who follows the news is aware of this despite a partial ceasefire in eastern Aleppo. For the time being, Russia is still relatively calm and the bombings have not resumed. Yet there is little reason for optimism. In New York there is an initiative to convene the United Nations General Assembly on this subject, because the Security Council is paralyzed by a Russian veto and by China's position on Syria. Some countries are talking about a uniting for peace resolution to circumvent the blockade in the UN Security Council. Minister, what is Belgium's position on this possible uniting for peace resolution at the General Assembly? Could such a resolution be a solution in the blocking? Are there any possibilities for you to force a no-fly zone solely for aircraft of the Assad regime, or do you see any other slopes? How do you evaluate the European summit in Luxembourg, which discussed Syria among other things? How do you evaluate the partial ceasefire? Is that a reason for hope? Is it diplomatically conceivable that similar partial stocks will be closed in other areas of high humanitarian need? How can such files be enforced and controlled, referring to the messages as if the rebels would not allow the residents of Aleppo to leave the city?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the Russian-American ceasefire agreement did not last long and the delivery of humanitarian aid has never been sufficient given the lack of cooperation on the part of the Syrian regime. In addition, confidence between the United States and Russia had disappeared, following several incidents, such as the bombing of a humanitarian convoy and Syrian government forces. Belgium, however, remains in favour of a rapid resumption of the ceasefire. As for the Belgian position on the other aspects of the conflict, I refer to the answer given to Mr. From Vriendt and I'll come back. I have no independent information on the use of depleted uranium by the U.S. Air Force in Syria. I will see to what extent we can obtain further information. Belgium has for years been subject to a total ban on the production, export and use of such ammunition by our own armed forces. There is in fact no similar prohibition on the universal level. Belgium has constantly supported increased awareness of the problems of weapons and ammunition containing depleted uranium. We support the UN resolution on the impact of such weapons. We also support further research into the potential risks associated with such weapons. We have also shown our willingness to provide information on our legislation, the world's first legislation, to States wishing to adopt similar legislation. The partial ceasefire established by Russia and the Assad regime is insufficient. After all, these breaks should not be used as an element in the diplomatic game, but should serve to alleviate humanitarian needs. They have not allowed the necessary humanitarian aid to be provided to the affected people, especially in East Aleppo, who have been forced to survive for months without the most essential basic facilities such as medicines, water and food. That is why Belgium supports the UN's demand to have at least controlled 48-hour breaks so that the people can have the much-needed trust and the humanitarian organisations can organise the delivery of aid. It is also important to extend these breaks to the whole territory and all affected areas under siege. The EU has therefore taken an important humanitarian initiative to provide assistance to the most vulnerable wounded and to evacuate women and children. This initiative was also discussed at the recent EU Foreign Affairs Council. There, the High Representative Mogherini was also given the mandate to extend the dialogue with regional players, mainly Iran and Saudi Arabia. It has already taken the necessary steps, which Belgium very much appreciates. Belgium supports efforts at the UN General Assembly to increase pressure on the parties concerned, mainly Russia and the Assad regime. We must ensure that a possible resolution on Canadian initiative is sufficiently widely supported so that the political signal with regard to Damascus and Moscow is strong enough. So we're working with Canada on that. It also increases the pressure on the members of the Security Council to take the necessary initiatives there. A no-fly zone seems difficult to set up in the current circumstances, in which Russia is very closely involved in military operations. Belgium is always in favour of such an initiative being approved by the UN Security Council. As you know, Russia has a right of veto in the Security Council. It is therefore better to reach such an agreement than any other possible initiative. I also share, Mr Blanchart, your concern about arbitrary detentions and enforced disappearance in Syria, resulting in tens of thousands of victims. For this reason, Belgium supported the resolution on the human rights situation in Syria, which was adopted by the Human Rights Council in September. This resolution strongly condemns the widespread practice of enforced disappearance and arbitrary detention. It provides for a high-level round table on the situation of human rights in the Syrian Arab Republic, including the problem of enforced disappearances and arbitrary detention, to be held at the Council meeting in March 2017. Our country also participated in the interactive dialogue with the Committee of Inquiry on Syria, at the Council meeting in September, in order to express our support for the work of the Committee and to denounce serious human rights violations. In addition, Belgium supported the request to hold a special session of the Human Rights Council on the situation in Aleppo on 21 October. Belgium also supported the resolution adopted by the Council at this special session.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u52	It will really be necessary to insist that observers be able to see the situation in prisons on the spot, that they be able to identify all the clues necessary to bring to justice those responsible for this climate of hatred.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u53	Minister, I will help you and save you the trouble of informing. I quote: "U.S. Central Command finally has confirmed the news of Octobre, 21 that it has used depleted uranium weapons." So you don't have to ask. It's confirmed. What you could ask of your American colleagues is that the US military should make known the right places where these weapons have been used, so that the authorities and, where appropriate, the international aid organisations can use the necessary resources to reduce and, if possible, eliminate harmful effects on the civilian population from the use of these weapons.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u54	Following on from what Mr Van der Maelen said, it is crucial that Belgium does not participate in any kind of operation involving the United States or other countries using enriched uranium. It fits in with our tradition of resisting the use of such ammunition. We have always been a pioneer in this respect. I have put a question to your colleague, Steven Vandeput. Mr Minister, the resolution Uniting for Peace might provide an opportunity to unblock the situation. The border lies at a two-thirds majority in the general meeting. The Uniting for Peace resolution is explicitly foreseen and was adopted in 1950 as a way of taking decisions within the United Nations. If I am not mistaken, everything can be decided with that resolution. There shall be no exclusion therein. There can be considerable progress in this area. You know we love Canada. It's a beautiful country. If we can achieve a deblocking with the Canadian initiative, I hope that Belgium will really support it. With our multilateral tradition, perhaps, when there is a blocking in the UN Security Council, we can get things moving through that detour at the United Nations General Assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u55	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Grovonius' 13435 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Crusnière's 13437 was postponed. Mr Crusnière, Mrs Jadin and Mrs Claerhout are absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u56	The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: 13440 by Mr Van der Maelen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u57	Madam President, I withdraw the question. She's been treated.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u58	That's noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u59	Minister, in December 2014, in response to Boko Haram's abuses, the Cameroonian government enacted a law to suppress acts of terrorism. This includes periods of detention without charge, renewable indefinitely, and the death penalty for certain acts. Arbitrary arrests, extrajudicial executions, enforced disappearances and inhuman and degrading treatment have been reported since then, according to an Amnesty International report. Concern is also expressed about the way investigations and trials are conducted. The fight against terrorism and, in this case, against the Boko Haram Group must certainly be a priority, but it must not be carried out to the detriment of the fundamental human rights of the entire population. Minister, do you have more information about respect for human rights in the fight against terrorism in this country? Does Belgium, as a member of the UN Human Rights Council, intend to take initiatives to protect human rights defenders in Cameroon? At the bilateral level, has Belgium raised or intends to address this worrying situation with the Cameroonian authorities? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u60	Mr Blanchart, as you say, a report by Amnesty International published last July once again recalls the poor conditions of detention and the lack of respect for human rights by Cameroonian forces, particularly in the far north, where the Cameroonian government declared war in Boko Haram. The information contained in this report appears to be well documented, although it is difficult to verify all allegations, given the difficulty of access to the area. I note that President Biya is committed to ensuring that the fight against Boko Haram is conducted in full compliance with Cameroon's international human rights obligations. Belgium not only plays a very active role in the Human Rights Council in Geneva, but also in the work of the Third Committee of the United Nations General Assembly in New York by promoting initiatives that highlight States' obligations to human rights in the fight against terrorism. At the last session of the Human Rights Council last September, we co-sponsored a resolution dedicated to this topic. Our country is also active in the protection of human rights defenders. In this case, we are acting in line with the European guidelines in this area. I can confirm that our position in Yaoundé works closely with the other Member States of the European Union and the representatives of civil society on the spot. I haven't had an interview recently with my Cameroonian counterpart. For us, it is important to address this issue within a European framework because it strengthens our means of action. Our position in Yaoundé, as I said, works with European partners, in particular with the European Union delegation, in the joint drafting of the EU document on human rights. This document contains guidelines for the regular political dialogue conducted by EU ambassadors with the Cameroonian authorities. I will not fail to take the next opportunity of contact with my Cameroonian colleague to return to this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u61	I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for keeping us informed of developments in this situation, and in particular of the state of play of what will be said at the meeting you mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u62	Mr Minister, I refer to my extensive introduction and repeat the end of the written question. I believe that the expulsion of Brigitte Herremans shows yet another symptom of a new hardening of the regime of the Netanyahu government vis-à-vis domestic and foreign groups who continue to work for a two-state solution. This government recently introduced a law obliging Israeli NGOs to receive at least half of their funds from foreign state institutions or organisations to report in any communication that they receive support from foreign donors. In general, I think this is a very disturbing signal. Israel turns inward and shuts itself off from all possible influences that can come from abroad. The Members present in the Chamber know Brigitte Herremans as a person who is thinking about this conflict in a nuanced and balanced way and who sees, acknowledges and takes into account the beautiful and less beautiful aspects of both camps. The fact that that lady was treated like that is something we can't let go over. Firstly, what is the government's view on the expulsion of peace activist Brigitte Herremans? Secondly, do you believe that the expulsion of peace activists by the government of Netanyahu is conducive to a two-state solution? Thirdly, will you personally, as Foreign Minister, address this dossier to the Israeli authorities? Fourthly, will the government express its opinion on this action by the Netanyahu Government? In what way will you deal with the Israeli Government?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u63	Minister, Brigitte Herremans, Middle East policy officer for Pax Christi and Brotherly Delen, was held at Ben Gurion airport in Tel Aviv on 10 September. She arrived there with a group of Belgian youngsters to accompany a journey to Israel and Palestine. Brigitte Herremans was asked, among other things, to release all her contacts on the Palestinian side, including in Gaza, which she refused. After a night in prison, she was put back on a flight to Belgium. She's been banned from Israel for at least ten years now. Brigitte Herremans was deported because her struggle for peace and justice in Israel and Palestine became a thorn in the eyes of the Israeli government. That government is systematically trying to silence critical voices linked to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, not only foreign voices but also domestic ones. Herremans himself is one of the most balanced voices in the debate. It points to injustice, but recognises the legitimate concerns of all parties concerned. It also actively combats any anti-Semitic discourse in the Middle East debate. It strives for a two-state solution to the conflict and strongly believes in building bridges between the two communities. The expulsion of someone who is peacefully committed to what she believes in is therefore unacceptable. Mr President, first of all, how did you react to the expulsion of Brigitte Herremans or how will you react to that? Has your diplomacy had bilateral contacts with the Israeli diplomacy on this issue? Have you contacted yourself at ministerial level? Secondly, will you argue that Israel should review Brigitte Herremans' case? Will you insist that the entry ban be lifted for her? Thirdly, will you place this in a wider context? Will you express your concern about the growing difficulties experienced by NGOs in their operation? You may have seen that I made a statement together with two members of the majority, including, unfortunately, an ex-colleague in the meantime. The majority will also vote to ask you not to let that pass and not only to show indignation, but also to take further steps in this matter. I think that's becoming a very bad evolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u64	Madam President, I have an answer in the two languages. There was also a question from Mrs Grovonius, but she is absent. We were very quickly informed of the refusal of access to Israeli territory to Mrs Brigitte Herremans. Our embassy in Tel Aviv had immediately learned that she had been apprehended at the border. After her arrest at Tel Aviv airport, a telephone call took place. After her return to Belgium a telephone contact followed. Our post on the ground and my administration followed Mrs Herremans' situation closely, from the moment she was denied access to the territory until she was returned. Its consular assistance was offered, as is the case for every Belgian citizen. Mrs Herremans was also received by my office and by my services on her return to Belgium, which enabled her to give us a more detailed account of the manner in which she was denied access to Israel and the possible consequences of that refusal. Here I would like to stress that his first concern is to be able to return one day to Israel. I will therefore remain attentive to the reactions to be given, knowing what its main concern is. I can understand calls for such or such reactions to the Israeli authorities, but I stress that we are also trying to take into account the wish expressed by Mrs Herremans. On the merits of the case, as you know, each State has the right to allow or refuse access to its territory. However, while respecting Israel's sovereignty, we regret that such a decision was taken in this case, with Broederlijk Delen being an organization known for its seriousness and professionalism. Mrs Herremans' case is not the first to be brought to our attention. As I said during the topical debate on 11 May following my return from my mission to Israel and the Palestinian Territories, the Israeli refusal to admit Belgians to Israeli territory was part of one of the issues raised during the talks on the ground. Both at this point and at other points, a follow-up was requested from our post on the spot. The issue has therefore already been raised with the Israeli authorities in order to obtain a more detailed explanation of the refusal of access to Israeli territory to Belgian citizens and to prevent such incidents from repeating themselves. We will not fail to bring this issue to the permanent attention of our Israeli interlocutor, although, I repeat, the decision on whether or not to grant access to its territory remains the privilege of the State of Israel, as is the case for any other sovereign State.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u65	Minister, I hope that Brigitte Herremans will be able to call on the good offices of the Foreign Office to get back into the region as soon as possible. She works professionally and is one of the best informed Belgians from civil society for the region. Many of my fellow Members have been able to enjoy her experience in the past. I keep repeating that this lady, contrary to what is thought in Tel Aviv, is not biased. It looks with open eyes and listens with open ears to what is being told on both sides of the conflict. It would be a pity if she could not continue her good and useful work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u66	I would urge the Minister to do everything in his power to reverse the entry ban, to discuss it diplomatically with the Israeli partner. On the last journey I have made, together with Mr De Roover and Mr Sarah Claerhout, across the borders of opposition and majority, we have asked you to do everything possible to prevent a reasonably serious criticism of the violation of human rights in international law, including by Israel. In a democracy it should be possible to discuss all opinions, especially from serious organisations such as Brotherly Sharing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u67	I agree with what the two previous speakers have said. I would add that any country can take such a measure, but, as Mr De Vriendt says, Israel likes to be treated as a democratic country. This means that the criteria applied may also be more stringent than in an average dictatorship. In the joint initiative to which Mr De Vriendt refers, we have also noted that such an attitude can only tighten up the fronts, including with us. That's unfortunate. We have come to know Brigitte Herremans as someone who is completely within the confines of the civil debate on the Middle East. I would also like to express my hope that initiatives may lead to success in order to ensure that the very severe sanction which has been pronounced against her could still be reduced. I would like to thank you for the efforts you could make in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u68	Debates of the European Parliament 13517, Question No 13520 and the combined questions No. Mr Crusnière's 13525 and 13746 were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u69	Madam President, Minister, my question has been put together, although it is a slightly different one. In other respects, that is not the case. Minister, the European Union's LAW-TRAIN project runs from 2015 to 2018. It is fully funded by the European Union under Horizon 2020 for an amount of EUR 5 million. The project is coordinated by an Israeli university and includes the participation of a number of partners such as the Israeli Ministry of the Interior, the Belgian Ministry of Justice, the Portuguese Ministry of Justice, the KU Leuven and a number of other research institutes. The aim of the project is to build a kind of virtual technology platform to improve and harmonise transnational interrogation techniques. The aim is also to promote police cooperation. In several respects, this is therefore problematic because the Israeli security services have no undisputed reputation for the treatment of prisoners and interrogations. It is also problematic that administrative detention is being applied excessively. A UN report of May 2016 talks about cruel and inhuman interrogations. It is even more interesting that Israeli police headquarters are located in occupied Palestinian territory on the West Bank. You know that the European Union and the Belgian Government regard this occupation as illegal. You explain that regularly. That is the official discourse and the official policy. Such a territoriality argument must therefore be considered seriously. To what extent can we afford it and to what extent is it consistent to cooperate with a partner whose headquarters are located in occupied Palestinian territory? I'm very curious to hear your answer. That is why, after 11 years of negotiations, there is still no cooperation agreement between Europol and Israel. Finally, the project provides for more than EUR 2 million for the Israeli partners. The fact that European research money goes to Israeli security services in such a context raises questions, especially since Horizon 2020 funding should be used strictly for civilian purposes. First of all, are you familiar with the project? Secondly, do you consider cooperation with the Israeli police to be problematic? Do you think it is appropriate for European money to be transferred to a research project involving a body under attack because of dubious interrogation practices? Thirdly, the European precedents and guidelines on cooperation with and financing of entities located in Israel's occupied territory are clear. Has there been a border crossing for you in that area? Fourthly, what guidelines are there at Belgian level for such cooperation, in this case with the Israeli police? Finally, in August 2016, Portugal decided to withdraw from the European Union's LAW-TRAIN project. It is our conviction that Belgium should do the same on the basis of the arguments put forward. Are you prepared to work for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u70	Madam President, some 30 KUL academics have reacted negatively to a partnership between their university, the SPF Justice, the Israeli Bar Ilan University, the Israeli Ministry of Security and the National Police on the LAW-TRAIN project, as part of the Horizon 2020 European Research and Innovation Programme. This project aims to streamline interrogation techniques in cross-border crimes and to train interrogators working with virtual environments. As these academics point out, this partnership is part of a collaboration that is clearly akin to direct material support for the illegal and criminal policy of occupation and colonization of Palestine by the Israeli State. Both the subject and the partners are linked directly to the occupation, which is, as a reminder, declared illegal under international law. More specifically, the police, security and intelligence forces as well as the Israeli prison system have been repeatedly challenged by the UN, as well as by human rights organizations such as Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch. They were strongly criticized for the racism they displayed, the brutality of their actions, the systematic use of violence, torture, administrative and arbitrary imprisonment, including of children, and other gross violations of human rights. The headquarters of the Israeli National Police is itself located in East Jerusalem, illegally occupied. Bar Ilan University also directly supports the occupation of Palestine, including by organizing specific training for Israeli security services, which are themselves involved in operations in the occupied territories. Cooperation with them is unacceptable and contrary to international law. The Portuguese authorities have also decided to withdraw from the LAW-TRAIN project. Minister, what is the involvement of the Belgian authorities and public services in this partnership? What about the university system? Do you not think that it is problematic and contrary to international law, and that, as these academics demand and as the Portuguese Government has done, the Belgian public and academic institutions should withdraw entirely from these partnerships? Given the key issues we are talking about, could you make available a complete list of the academic partnerships that exist between the Belgian institutions and the Israeli institutions? The CNCD had already, in 2015, denounced the opacity that exists on this subject in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u71	Madam President, I had also received questions from Mrs Grovonius on this matter. I will answer all the questions anyway to point out that our position on administrative detentions is unambiguous. I had the opportunity to recall this during my mission to Israel last May. We condemn arbitrary arrests in general and recall that administrative arrests must constitute exceptional measures, for a limited period of time, and respect various guarantees such as the rights of defence of the detainee and the right to a fair trial within a reasonable time. With regard to the particular case of Mohamed Abu Sakha, we know that his pre-trial detention was extended on 13 June for a period of six months. The Israeli authorities have made no comments in this regard. I have no further information at this stage, since Mr Sakha is not a Belgian national, so we cannot provide him with consular assistance. However, we consistently insist with the Israeli authorities on the need to respect conditions of limited duration and the rights of defence. The project LAW-TRAIN, as already mentioned by you, is a project in which the FPS Justice participates. Questions on this matter therefore fall within the competence of my colleague in the field of justice. Without commenting on this particular project, I can tell you in general that, although Belgium has a clear position and condemns Israel's colonisation policy, our country, like the European Union, is strongly opposed to any boycott of Israel, both at academic level and in any other field. But in connection with this precise project, I am prepared to send a question to the Minister of Justice to see what the possible responses are to this precise project. I repeat that we are opposed to any form of boycott, including in the academic field.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u72	Madam President, Minister, we are not in favour of a boycott of Israel, but we are against cooperation with the Israeli security services. When we see what international criticism, including UN criticism, they get, such cooperation is not evident. Secondly, we are working here with a partner, the Israeli police, whose headquarters are in occupied Palestinian territory. I have already asked a question, and I have also received an answer, to your colleague, Mr Geens, the Minister of Justice. However, I would also like to ask you a question because this dossier has a foreign component. This is about our policy towards Israel and Palestine. I believe that there is an inconsistency and a non-congruence between such a project involving a FOD and your policy in which you always differentiate between Israel and occupied Palestinian territory. So there's a contradiction here. I would ask you to look at this again and to contact your colleague in the Justice Department to see how it can be brought into line.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u73	Minister, I take note of your non-responses, although they refer to the Minister of Justice, while adding that you are opposed to any boycott. It's strong enough! Whatever Israel may do, whatever the conditions – and here it is serious – you are opposed to any boycott. It is a generalized, almost universal position that I find quite surprising and doubtful about this country. In order not to hide anything from you, I am rather in favour of the boycott of Israel for everything that can support the settlement process. It is true that there are many things that support him and, here, this is particularly the case. I would point out that some 30 KUL academics have expressed a negative opinion on the subject; the Portuguese Government, too. Why can't you take a similar position, which seems to me more consistent with the principles of democracy and justice that Belgium claims to be defending?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u74	Madam President, Minister, last January the European Commission began the procedure for the protection of the rule of law against Poland. Since then, several steps have been taken. Recently, the Polish Government had not yet taken any concrete measures which would respond, if only satisfactorily, to the concerns expressed by the Commission, in particular by means of an official opinion. If these concerns and warnings were not followed by satisfactory action within a reasonable time, the Commission could decide to make a recommendation, which was done a few weeks ago. Indeed, the Commission has issued a very critical final opinion on the set of laws regulating the functioning of the Polish Constitutional Court, the country's highest legal body. This opinion was rejected by the Polish government, which chose to isolate itself on the international stage. The country is therefore undergoing a serious constitutional crisis which seems not to be on the verge of being resolved. Minister, what is the assessment of the political situation in Poland since the procedure initiated by the European Commission? What is your position on the recommendations made by the latter? Is our country part of this approach both at European and bilateral level with Poland? What is your position on the Polish government's rejection? Here we are entering into a serious violation of the foundations of the rule of law. The Polish refusal to listen to the Brussels recommendations could trigger the implementation of Article 7, a procedure whereby a Member State may be deprived of its right to vote in the event of a serious and persistent violation of the values of the European Union. What exactly is the situation? Is this procedure envisaged? What is Belgium's position on this matter? You mentioned earlier the desire to organise an annual review of the rule of law and individual rights in all Member States. You also mentioned the attempt to rally as many Member States as possible to this project. How is this proposal accepted by the other Member States? What initiatives have you taken in this direction?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u75	Madam President, Mr Blanchart, it is clear that the legislation on the functioning of the Constitutional Court and the appointment of its judges divide the Polish political world. In addition, this case continues to oppose the Polish Government and the Constitutional Court. On 22 July, the Polish Parliament adopted a new law on the Constitutional Court. On 11 August, the latter recalculated certain provisions of the Act, which amended its operation for non-conformity with the Constitution. Since the Polish Government has chosen not to officially publish the judgment referred to above, the blocking of the judgment still persists. The situation of the rule of law in Poland is the subject of a procedure based on a Commission Communication of March 2014 to strengthen the rule of law in the European Union. The process envisaged in this Communication consists of three stages: an assessment of the situation by the Commission, a recommendation from the Commission and a follow-up to the Recommendation. In the absence of a satisfactory response, the Commission may have to operate the mechanism provided for in Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union. At the moment, we are in the second stage. At the end of July 2016, the Commission sent a recommendation to Poland. This procedure is specific to the European Commission and is used for the first time. It does not imply that the Council of Ministers of the Union, which must, however, be regularly informed thereof, should intervene. Consequently, Belgium does not have to give its opinion on this occasion. However, I believe that the Commission, acting in this way, would only fulfil its role as guardian of the Treaties. Poland had to respond to the Commission's recommendations by the end of October. It met the deadline, but rejected those recommendations. The Commission has said that it has refused to speculate at this stage on the continuation of the process. Several meetings of the College of Commissioners are scheduled this month. We will therefore examine the Commission's proposals before reacting. Last February, I proposed to launch, within the framework of the General Affairs Council, a periodic assessment of respect for the rule of law and fundamental rights in the Member States of the Union. This initiative was able to rely from the outset on the support of some European partners. At my request, my department held a seminar in Brussels on 20 July, bringing together experts from Member States who share such concerns as well as representatives of international organisations active in the defence of fundamental rights. This seminar was followed by a ministerial meeting held in Rome on 5 October. On this occasion, some Member States confirmed their support for the Belgian proposal. Of course, I had the opportunity to re-explain our proposal at this meeting. Other States, however, without sharing all the modalities I have put forward, have supported the objective pursued. We will come back to this at the next General Affairs Council meetings, hoping that it will be possible to make this proposal enforceable, given the reflections that are being developed on the intensification of the instruments necessary to monitor compliance with the rule of law in the various Member States. I would point out that my position at the outset, in this type of procedure, was that there was no reason to have so much clarification in the mechanisms for monitoring the budgetary situations of States under the Maastricht Treaty and its criteria, and not, in parallel, to have at least as precise a follow-up of the evolution of the application by States, of the Copenhagen criteria, that is, political criteria and, in particular, respect for the rule of law and individual rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u76	Thank you, Minister. We have often discussed developments since the beginning of this issue. Unfortunately, it is evolving in the sense that we feared. This is becoming more and more evident. Presumably, the conclusions will be precisely those that were feared. It is really time to put pressure on this government to hope to change the situation. Of course, we support your proposal to take stock of the states governed by law in the European Commission. I think and hope that it can evolve favourably. I therefore ask you, Mr Minister, to remain attentive to the development of this situation and possibly, as soon as you have the opportunity and the will to do so, to activate everything you can to put pressure on this Member State.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u77	Madam President, this is the story of the difficult neighbour. Recently, the head of Luxembourg diplomacy, Jean Asselborn, called for the exclusion, at least temporarily, of Viktor Orban's Hungary from the European Union for violating its fundamental democratic values. For Luxembourg, this is the only way to preserve the cohesion and values of the European Union. Indeed, some countries, such as Hungary, and also Poland, continue to violate fundamental European values. This clear message came only a few days away from an informal summit of European leaders in Bratislava on the future of the European project. Mr Minister, how does the European Commission stand following the remarks made by the head of Luxembourg diplomacy? What is Belgium's position in the face of this call from Luxembourg and the drifts that persist in these countries? Did the summit in Bratislava also address the ongoing violations of rights in Hungary and Poland, in particular the response that the European Union must provide? If so, what are the main points? What was Belgium's position on this issue at this summit?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u78	Mr Blanchart, the European Commission has in recent years taken various initiatives to ensure respect for the rule of law and fundamental rights in Hungary. I have personally always supported these initiatives and will continue to do so. If a pure and simple exclusion from a Member State of the European Union is not legally possible, a follow-up of respect for the fundamental values of the Union by all Member States is of course essential. I have just recalled that in response to your previous question. Since the beginning of this year I have been trying to set up a process to assess the rule of law in the 28 Member States and tomorrow, following Brexit, in the 27 Member States of the European Union. With regard to migration policy, Belgium has always stressed the importance of a balance between responsibility and solidarity. Solidarity is a basic principle of the European Union; it must apply to migration as it applies to cohesion policy. We have taken note of the results of the referendum held in Hungary on migrant quotas, which, in the absence of sufficient participation, has not, however, had a legal effect. We have also taken note of the Hungarian Government's willingness to amend the Constitution in spite of everything, with a view to preventing the imposition of such quotas. Belgium's position is clear: the decisions adopted within the European Union on the relocation of refugees remain legally binding until they have been invalidated by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Belgium also intervened, in support of the Commission, before the Court to defend their validity. The Bratislava Summit did not focus on the values of the Union or on internal policy in Hungary and Poland. On the other hand, the Benelux Summit of 3 October 2016 generally recalled that the Union's values are not negotiable and called for a strengthening of the political dialogue on respect for the rule of law in the Council, in the same spirit as the request, I repeat, that I have been making since the beginning of the year to set up a permanent evaluation mechanism.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u79	Minister, thank you for your answers. If no action is taken, the whole project of the European Union as a community of values is called into question. That would be terrible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u80	Mr President, Minister, as a reminder, last February in the Foreign Affairs Council, you launched an initiative to regularly examine the principles of the rule of law in the European Union. A group of experts then set out on the idea. You then visited Rome in early October at an informal meeting of several EU Member States wishing to play a dominant role in the field of human rights, namely Austria, Denmark, Finland, France, Greece, Portugal, Slovakia, Sweden and Belgium. You defended the idea of a periodic assessment of compliance with the rule of law and human rights. In your opinion, evaluation and dialogue can take place in the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Council. Minister, first of all, could you do a debriefing of this meeting? Have any texts been negotiated in practice? If so, which ones? How is this initiative received by the other Member States? What is the status of this proposal? Did you take the opportunity to denounce the situation in Hungary and Poland, particularly with regard to the right to abortion?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u81	Mr Blanchart, in February last year, indeed, as I pointed out in response to your other questions, I proposed that, within the framework of the General Affairs Council, a periodic assessment of respect for the rule of law and fundamental rights in all the Member States of the Union be set up. This initiative was able to count from the start on the support of some of our European partners. At my request, the SPF Foreign Affairs organised a seminar in Brussels on 20 July which brought together experts from Member States with similar concerns, as well as representatives of international organisations active in the field of fundamental rights. This seminar was followed by a ministerial meeting held in Rome on 3 October. The meeting provided an opportunity for a fruitful exchange on the assessment of the current dialogue on the rule of law in the Council and on how to improve it. However, there was no formal text negotiated on that occasion. Several Member States have confirmed their support for the Belgian proposal; others, although not in agreement with all the modalities, have endorsed the objective pursued and the need to put the rule of law within the European Union at the heart of the European agenda. The Member States that participated in the Rome meeting will present a common approach in the form of a non-paper at the General Affairs Council on 15 November, which will return to the issue. I will try to continue to move this idea forward in order, I repeat, to lead to an examination of the Member States, which is at least as scrupulous about their state of the rule of law as they are about their budgetary situation; both seem just as important to me. Of course, at these meetings, including those in Rome, the situation in Poland and Hungary, which you referred to in other questions, was an important part of the context and the proposals put forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u82	Thank you for your answers, Minister. I invite you to continue this important work; we will remain attentive to its evolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u83	Mr President, Minister, we have seen the result, disappointing for peace, of the referendum in Colombia. This result illustrates the great divisions within the country and the enormous risks to peace initiatives. In your 2016 progress report on trade treaties, you state that the agreement with Colombia could improve the human rights situation on the ground. You also cite Belgian support for NGOs in the country. However, the same NGOs and various Colombian trade unions opposed the conclusion and ratification of the agreement, affirming precisely the opposite. NGOs are also concerned that the agreement, through the opening up of agrobusiness to foreign capital, will facilitate land grabbing, driving farmers out of their land to favour large companies, particularly in the palm oil sector. You say that Belgium imports vegetable products, minerals and food products. Minister, in the face of these risks and given the priority that you say you give to the question of human rights in general, and of social and trade union rights in particular, what guarantees do you have that the agreement does not facilitate land grabbing, and therefore internal conflicts? Do you not fear that, as it would facilitate land grabbing, the agreement could undermine the very foundations of the peace agreement between the FARC and the government, whose agrarian reform is the most important dimension?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u84	Mr President, Mr Van Hees, as regards the peace process with the FARC and the ELN, the result of the referendum on 2 October certainly does not mean the end of the peace process. The Colombian people want peace, even among them those who voted for no. The Colombian government and the FARC recognized in a joint communiqué the outcome of this vote and the need to negotiate adjustments and clarifications to the peace agreement. They must be based on a process of consultation with different sectors of society, in order to understand their concerns. In recent weeks, an important consultation process has indeed taken place within the framework of a national dialogue for peace. President Santos and members of his team consulted with representatives of many sectors of society, including social organizations, trade unions, victim groups, women's rights organizations and representatives of all political parties, whether they campaigned for the yes or no in the plebiscite. On 23 October, President Santos announced that he had received 445 proposals following this consultation process. All these proposals are currently under consideration and are being discussed in Havana between the government negotiators and the FARC. The aim of President Santos is to conclude a new agreement with full legal and political legitimacy and to start implementing it as soon as possible. The President stressed the need to conclude this new agreement as soon as possible. With regard to the holding of a second vote, the Colombian National Electoral Council had indeed confirmed that possibility, provided that an amended agreement was subject to the approval of the Colombian population. However, neither the Colombian government nor the FARC confirmed at this stage that a possible new agreement would be the subject of a new popular vote. Belgium and the European Union will continue to support Colombia and the peace process, but now it is up to the political forces to come together and work for peace within a national framework. On 10 October 2016, following the referendum on the peace agreement with the FARC, the Colombian Government and the ELN announced that they would open formal peace negotiations on 27 October in Quito. However, the government has postponed the talks until a date to be determined. The prerequisite for starting peace negotiations is the release of all hostages. At present, it is not clear how many hostages are still in the hands of the ELN. The paramilitary groups were dismantled in 2005 and officially no longer exist according to the Colombian government. Remains of these paramilitary groups have transformed into criminal gangs and are not part of peace talks. As far as human rights are concerned, the human rights situation in Colombia has improved considerably in recent years. This progress was recognised by the High Commissioner for Human Rights and the International Labour Organisation. President Santos received the Nobel Peace Prize for his efforts to end more than fifty years of internal armed conflict. The Colombian Government is very aware of the importance of human rights and strengthened the legal framework for human rights and social rights. For example, in 2011, the law on victims and the return of the deprived land was adopted in the framework of the transitional justice system. In 2015, a Ministry of Human Rights, Consejera Presidencial para los Derechos Humanos, was established, which depends directly on the President. It already took a number of initiatives, such as an Action Plan 2016 for Human Rights and a Plan of Human Rights and Businesses in 2015, which enrol in a National Strategy on Human Rights 2014-2034. A peace agreement would, of course, be positive for the human rights situation, but in my opinion the absence of an agreement will not undermine the improvements that have already been achieved. However, it is important for the Colombian Government to give concrete implementation to the measures decided upon and to ensure that they are complied with on the ground. The issue of human rights, of course, remains a priority for the European Union and for Belgium. It is systematically addressed in my contacts with the Colombian authorities. As regards the trade agreement with the European Union, since there were also questions from colleagues on this subject, like any political project, a trade agreement does not offer absolute guarantees. However, both the European Union and our Colombian interlocutors hope that the trade agreement between the European Union and Colombia can contribute to improving the human rights situation in Colombia. The importance of respect for human rights is, moreover, strongly rooted in the commitments made in this agreement. First of all, the preamble to the agreement explicitly states that the parties reaffirm their adherence to the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and that they undertake to implement the agreement in accordance with the objective of sustainable development, including the promotion of economic progress, respect for labour rights and the protection of the environment, in accordance with its international commitments. This commitment is also repeated several times in the text of the Treaty, including in Articles 4 and 107. Article 1 of the Agreement further states that respect for both the democratic principles and fundamental human rights set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the principle of the rule of law inspire the parties' domestic and international policies. Respect for these principles is an essential element of this Agreement. Finally, consistent with the European approach to trade agreements, the agreement with Peru and Colombia devotes an entire chapter to trade and sustainable development. This is Chapter 10 of the agreement. It is difficult to imagine how the agreement would facilitate land grabbing in Colombia. Chapter 6 of the Agreement, which regulates public procurement, explicitly states that this chapter is not applicable to the acquisition or rental of existing land, buildings or other immovable property or related rights and, more generally, the Agreement does not in any way affect the ability of the Colombian authorities to legislate, including with regard to access to land ownership. We will, of course, return to this assessment with each submission of a report on the trade agreements concluded by Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u85	Minister, thank you for your answers. You say that there is no problem with the acquisition of "bad land", precisely to take up the term of the agreement between the FARC and the government. The information I have said to the contrary, in particular NGOs in Belgium but also local organisations and trade unions in Colombia. It should be noted that 6 to 7 million Colombians have been displaced within the country as a result of the conflict and that many lands abandoned by the peasants who fled the violence have been taken over. The peace agreement between the FARC and the government specifically provides for the recovery of these poorly acquired lands. I think there may be a confrontation between this agreement and the trade agreement that has been concluded. With regard to the discussion we have had on CETA and TTIP, and in particular on the attitude of certain regional parliaments, there is a risk that, at Walloon Parliament level, ratification of this Treaty will not pass. The bear's skin should not be sold, but ratification might be rejected at the level of the Walloon Parliament. As I have invited you to look at what is happening at the level of the federated entities about TTIP, I also invite you to look at what is happening for this trade agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u86	Mr Grovonius and Mr Ducarme are not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u87	Minister, just before the summer recess, the Council of Ministers decided that after the audit of B-FAST last year there would also be a financial audit of B-FAST. It is reported that the deadline would be 31 March 2017, then the results should be there. I am naturally pleased that the government wishes to carry out this audit, because I have repeatedly asked about the financial situation. However, since the announcement it has remained fairly quiet, we are already in November. That's why I have the following questions. When will the government's decision to conduct that financial audit be implemented? Or has it already started, has it already been decided, because of course that is possible? In connection with this audit, according to information provided by the Home Office, it would be an independent audit. You said in the press in July that it was about an audit by the Court of Auditors. Both aren't the same. Is it an independent audit or an audit of the Court of Auditors? Is it correct that the results should be available before the end of March 2017? Will this date be retained? If not, when should it be ready? Does this deadline affect the planned reform of B-FAST? Indeed, in March 2016, you said that we should expect results from this reform. So far we have not seen much of that. When will we see your B-FAST reform plans?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u88	Mr President, I also have completely different questions from absent colleagues, so perhaps I should not answer the other questions on B-FAST. Mrs Bellens, in relation to your question, the Council of Ministers decided on 20 July 2016 on the strategic objective of B-FAST for the following years. We are now working on the basis of a definition of the strategic objective. The Council of Ministers also asked for a financial audit at the Court of Auditors. So we're going to the Court of Auditors with that question. We expect to get the result around March 2017. This will also be made available to Parliament. You know the functioning of the Court of Auditors. We will move forward step by step with the reform of B-FAST. I have now asked a co-ordination board within B-FAST to continue improving the functioning of the institution. This is done on the basis of the decision of the Council of Ministers of 20 July, but also on the basis of different exchanges of views between the various departments. I am prepared, together with this audit by the Court of Auditors, to give an update on the reform of B-FAST and perhaps new proposals for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u89	Minister, it's a file that's been dragging on for a long time. We've been asking questions about it for a while. It's going to be urgent. As you yourself say, I do not need to tell you that an audit of the Court of Auditors should be requested by Parliament. Of course, I am happy to serve you, Minister, when the audit is to be requested. This reform is indeed necessary step by step. If you say that you are working on this now, you must have an effective overall picture that includes the financial picture. That should be even. We cannot first prepare a reform and then look at the finances and see that we have to start our reform again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u90	Minister, on the night of 17-18 September 1961, the aircraft carrying Dag Hammarskjöld, among others, crashed into a forest about ten kilometres from Ndola, in what was then called the Northern Rhodesia. This tragic and unprecedented event took place at the beginning of the "congolese crisis". The United Nations General Assembly unanimously decided on 26 October 1961 to set up a committee of inquiry into the circumstances of the disappearance. The Commission delivered its conclusions in April 1962, but it was only able to render an "open truth", concluding that the death of the boss of the United Nations was "suspect", although it did not consider that he had been murdered. Through the provisions of resolutions adopted by the UN General Assembly on 29 December 2014 and 19 November 2015, Ban Ki-Moon, the current UN Secretary-General, appointed "a group of independent experts to examine new information and assess its probative value" on this painful case and was instructed "to obtain the information requested by the independent expert group to a number of Member States that have not yet been communicated". The Secretary-General has thus sent a request to Belgium, South Africa, the United Kingdom and the United States, i.e. all the countries concerned. Replies from these various States, including Belgium, were obtained by forceps. Thus, the United Nations boss notes in a note of 17 August 2016 that "Belgium's response does not bring anything new". Indeed, we were able to consult it on the United Nations website. In the letter of reply to the letter of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, sent on 11 January 2016, by our Permanent Representative to the United Nations, reference is made to the consultation by the Belgian authorities of the "diplomatic archives" and the "archives of private companies kept in the general archives of the Kingdom", but not of the archives of the Defence in general and of the SGRS in particular, nor of the archives of the Sûreté de l'Etat. Why has the FPS Foreign Affairs not consulted with Defence and the FPS Justice in this context? Are your services planning to do so in the near future? If so, when? In its note to the General Assembly of 17 August 2016, Ban Ki-Moon considers that a new investigation is necessary in this regard and asks "again" Member States to locate documents and information "still classified confidential" and to make it available to the UN and its experts. What is our country's position on these two issues in the General Assembly?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u91	Mr Hellings, I will answer your questions in a slightly different order. Firstly, with regard to Belgium's position on a new investigation into the circumstances of the death in 1961 of the United Nations Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjöld and the persons accompanying him. I may then answer the question on consultation with other departments. The question of the reopening of an investigation into the circumstances of the death of UN Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjöld and the persons accompanying him in 1961 arose at the UN General Assembly at the end of 2014. On this issue, Belgium has expressed its support for transparency and is ready to cooperate in a possible investigation. A first General Assembly resolution was adopted by consensus on 29 December 2014 to establish a group of independent experts. Belgium co-sponsored the second draft resolution, which the General Assembly re-adopted by consensus on 19 November 2015, to urge all Member States to provide all relevant information to complete the investigation work carried out by the expert group. My department has indeed worked with the utmost transparency on all the requests of the expert group. The independent expert from Brussels had access to all relevant diplomatic files and had been brought to the general archives of the Kingdom, as he had requested. He thanked my department for its cooperative and open attitude. The Group of Experts also expressed its deep appreciation for the constructive cooperation of the United Nations Member States. Belgium will therefore continue to cooperate with the Secretary-General of the United Nations if a new investigation is decided. At this stage, it appears that Sweden is preparing a draft resolution of the General Assembly in response to the Secretary-General's request. Therefore, as I have just mentioned, my department has worked in full transparency to answer the specific questions posed by the group of experts in 2015. He even carried out research which the expert who came to Belgium did not have time to do during his brief stay and gave precise answers to the group of experts. If new questions are asked in a new investigation, my department will not hesitate to consult with Defence and the FPS Justice on this matter if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u92	Thank you. I take it that Belgium has been in favour of transparency and has visibly shown the provisions to be proactively involved in the investigation. I have another question about the so-called 'African' archives in item 58. I propose that we continue the debate on this matter at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u93	Mr President, of course, this question, which I tabled later with new information, is linked to the one I have just asked about the ongoing United Nations investigation into the death of Dag Hammarskjöld. Minister, under a memorandum of understanding signed on 11 December 2014 between the State Archives and the SPF Foreign Affairs, more than 10 kilometres of so-called "African" archives, covering a period of 1885, either the beginning of the independent state of Congo in 1962 or the end of the Belgian colonial state, will be gradually transferred until 2018 from your services to the state archives. This essential material for researchers includes documents from the former Ministry of Colonies, the Governor General of Congo and ex-colonial records. According to the protocol in question, the diplomatic archives and those of the Belgian Development Cooperation will be transferred later to the General Archives of the Kingdom. Could you please tell me what the status of this transfer is? How many kilometres of archives have been transferred to date? Has the Colonial Security Archives Fund, an institution created by the Governor General of the Congo in 1932 and whose archives were probably part of the batch of documents related to the activities of the Governor General, been informed to the experts who are conducting the ongoing United Nations investigation into the death in 1961 of the Secretary General of the United Nations, assuming, of course, that this Archive Fund was still in the FPS Foreign Affairs at the time of the visit of UN experts, since it is clearly not in the General Archives of the Kingdom? Could you tell me where the colonial security archives are now? If these archives of the Colonial Security are still on the premises of the SPF Foreign Affairs, are these documents accessible to international researchers and experts, subject of course to compliance with the Act of 11 December 1998 on classification and authorizations, certificates and security notices?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u94	Mr President, my colleague, with regard to the transfer of the African archives from the FPS Foreign Affairs to the General Archives of the Kingdom (AGR), the process is well under way. In fact, the approximately 1.6 linear kilometres of African archives held in Egmont II will have been fully deposited, including 26,000 individual files from the African Personnel Service. These files are now available at the General Archives of the Kingdom, as was the case with Foreign Affairs. Now, the joint Foreign Affairs and AGR teams are busy packing the approximately 9 kilometres of the Egmont I building. Payments are made in instalments as work progresses every six months. The process is therefore under way. The archivist of Foreign Affairs, in consultation with the archivist general of the Kingdom, collaborated, as early as April 2013, on the research carried out by Mrs Suzanne Williams, an expert at the United Nations for the investigation of the death of UN Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjöld. During 2015, the archivist of Foreign Affairs collaborated with the United Nations Service of the SPF Foreign Affairs on Belgium's response to the investigators of the Hammarskjöld Commission. The Fonds des archives de la Sûreté coloniale, like the other funds that might contain documents relating to the death of the former Secretary-General, was mentioned in full transparency during these two episodes, but pointing out that, in order to be consulted, the fund had to be the subject of a request for declassification to the Sûreté de l'État and that the Sûreté congolaise had seen its activities ceased with the independence of the Congo in June 1960, more than a year before the death of the former Secretary-General. The transfer is the result of an agreement involving Foreign Affairs and State Security. The archives of the colonial security are no longer on the premises of the FPS Foreign Affairs. When they were still present, they were accessible to researchers by declassifying the documents requested by the State Security. The last foreign affairs consultation of documents from this fund came from a member of the parliamentary committee on the assassination of Julien Lahaut. For the rest, we didn't have any other requests.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u95	Minister, thank you for your answer. This is a truly interesting historical investigation, because we realize that there is an archive, the Colonial Security Archive Fund, which was made difficult to access under the Classification Act of December 1998 when it was in Foreign Affairs. Today, this archive has not been transferred to the General Archives of the Kingdom but has returned to the State Security, making it even more de facto inaccessible. We will discuss these specific provisions reserved for the archives of the intelligence and security services soon in the Justice Committee via a bill introduced by the Minister of Justice. However, on the general theme of "doing with his past", "ensuring his past", "to investigate what happened more than fifty-five years ago", it is necessary for all our administrations, yours, the General Archives of the Kingdom, but also the Ministry of Justice, the State Security, to allow independent experts from the United Nations or Belgian researchers to have access to documents concerning people who have now died. We will not be able to assume our colonial past until we can shed full light on what happened fifty-five years ago. I note with you today that we do not know where this Colonial Security Archive Fund is! In all cases, it was not made available to those seeking answers to what happened fifty-five years ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u96	Mr President, Minister, I was concerned and I finally tabled a question on 18 October, because there was no trace in the Belgian Moniteur of the ratification of the agreement, which was adopted in the Federal Parliament, concerning the trade in tropical timber. According to the United Nations Treaty Database, Belgium ratified the Agreement on 28 July 2015. However, in the Monitor, only acts of consent of the Regions can be found: Flanders (2011), Wallonia (2012), Brussels (2015). The House adopted, on July 5, 2012, after the Senate had done so on June 8, 2012, the draft assent to the international agreement on tropical timber, and then nothing more. Ratification, which appears in the treaties of the United Nations, does not appear in our Monitor. This question served for the first time: on 20 October, it was published in the Monitor, which is good. However, I kept my question. Indeed, my concern is first of all to understand. If it is an oversight, this text had gone into limbos. And if there is another reason, what is it? But I have another question about this kind of situation. If there is no publication in the Monitor, a law is not really in force. A beneficiary or offender cannot refer to him or her. No one can refer to the implementation of this law. I suppose these agreements are going through the same fate. This is one of the questions I ask you: what is the impact of a non-publication in the Monitor? When this publication comes later, what happens to the period between the vote by the parliamentary bodies and the publication? Is there a need to correct elements? What happens in the event of non-compliance with the terms or elements agreed upon in this agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u97	Mr President, Mrs Gerkens, I am a bit of a specialist in the ratification and ratification processes of mixed texts. I would like to tell you that here, the 2006 International Tropical Timber Agreement, done at Geneva on 27 January 2006, being a mixed treaty at Belgian level, falls under the provisions of the Cooperation Agreement between the Federal State, the Communities and the Regions on the modalities for the conclusion of the mixed treaties, dated 8 March 1994 and published in the Moniteur belge of 17 December 1996. In accordance with Article 12 of this Cooperation Agreement, it is incumbent upon me to have the instrument of ratification of a mixed treaty established and submitted to the King for signature as soon as all the parliamentary assemblies concerned have given their consent. In this case, the Parliamentary Assemblies of the Regions gave their consent to the 2006 International Tropical Timber Agreement on 1 July 2011 for the Flemish Region, 12 January 2012 for the Walloon Region and 23 April 2015 for the Brussels-Capital Region respectively. With regard to the federal law approving the said international agreement, I can reassure Mrs Gerkens that this law was indeed assented to and promulgated on 15 August 2012. After all the necessary approvals were obtained, the last of which was dated 23 April 2015 and was published in the Belgian Monitor of 7 May 2015, the instrument of ratification concerning this international agreement on tropical timber was established, submitted for royal signature and finally deposited with the United Nations Secretary-General on 28 July 2015. In accordance with Article 14 of the above-mentioned Cooperation Agreement, it is only after the deposit of the instrument of ratification that the text of the Treaty in question and the Federal Act of Consent are published by me in the Belgian Monitor, together with references to decrees and orders of consent and with information concerning ratification and entry into force. In the present case, my services therefore, as usual, sent to the Belgian Moniteur the documents to be published concerning the international agreement on tropical timber, including the Federal Act of Consent of 15 August 2012, after the date of ratification of 28 July 2015. The law was published in the Belgian Monitor on 20 October. Since the deposit of the instrument of ratification, Belgium has been bound as a party by the International Tropical Timber Agreement. Indeed, in accordance with the law of treaties, the deposit of an instrument of ratification constitutes the consent of a State to be bound by a treaty at the international level. It is therefore the State, in all its competent components, which is committed to the other parties to the agreement by the objective of the agreement and by the obligations arising therefrom. It is also the Belgian State which would be the only sanctionable, to use the terminology you have mentioned, in case it fails to comply with the provisions of that international agreement. So that's the whole procedure that led us to the Moniteur publication last month. I would point out that the published text does not contain any provisions directly applicable to the litigants of the States concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u98	Minister, thank you for your clarification. I am pleased that this is not a consequence. Implementation depends on the sending of ratification to the United Nations. The ratification was sent in July 2015, but it was only published in the Belgian Moniteur on 20 October. More than a year has passed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u99	It's less than the four years that were originally mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u100	Of course, but vigilance in follow-up is needed. I am glad that the oblivion has been repaired. In any case, I note above all from your reply that this does not mean that the terms of this international agreement are being respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u101	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you for the fact that my question is not falling out of hand. Minister, some time ago I questioned you about the progress made in the dossier concerning the language of the pension scheme documents of the Flemish former frontier workers in France. In your reply to my written question on this matter, you stated that the Consul General in Lille was in contact with the CARSAT authorities. The use of documents in the current languages is, of course, the result of the number of persons involved who worked throughout the French territory, but the situation in Northern Picardy is different, by the many Flemish frontier workers in the 1970s and 1980s. Your reply shows that you gave the Consul General the task of asking the CARSAT Northern Picardy to add a Dutch translation to the applications for a life certificate addressed to our compatriots, for which we thank you very much. However, I have a few specific questions for you. What is the current state of affairs? What progress has been made in the dossier since then?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u102	On 18 May 2015, the Belgian consul-general in Lille wrote to the Caisse d'assurance retreat et de la santé au travail, de CARSAT, asking whether a Dutch translation could be added to the document to which you referred. So far, there has been no reply to the consul-general's letter. As the Consulate-General was closed last year, I instructed the Belgian Embassy in Paris to continue to follow up on this matter. The latter stated that adaptations to the document to which you referred should be formally regulated by ministerial decision. It is therefore not possible to make a simple change to the form in question at the lower level of the administration. It also appears that the French Consulate General in Brussels issued a trilingual life certificate, French-Dutch-German, that pension holders can submit to their Belgian municipality. I have a copy of that form at your disposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u103	Thank you for that information, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u104	Mr President, Minister, at the beginning of October 2016, the Committee on the Rights of the Child published a sharp report on Saudi Arabia. The country continues to systematically violate human rights. The United Nations calls on Saudi Arabia to stop these practices and address the relevant legislation. Despite the signing of international treaties, Saudi Arabia continues to prosecute children over 15 years of age, such as adults, without a fair trial. The Committee's 18 experts consider that the country should repeal laws allowing children to be placed in solitary confinement, sentenced to life imprisonment, whipped, amputated and stoned. That's why I have the following questions. What is the government's position on the report? What progress have you made on human rights through your formal and informal contacts with the regime? What role do you still see for Belgium, the international community and the UN Human Rights Council to counter the trend? Following that, I also liked to receive more information about the condition of Raif Badawi. The reports reach us that his condition is evolving unfavourably, with new lashes ahead. I have a similar question about the condition of Ali Mohammed Baqir al-Nimr.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u105	Mr President, Mrs Capoen, I am aware of the so-called final remarks made by the Committee on the Rights of the Child, which monitors compliance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Like any Contracting Party, Saudi Arabia should also report periodically to the Committee on the Implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. In September, then, on the basis of the Saudi report, the so-called constructive dialogue between Saudi Arabia and the Committee, which subsequently formulated its final comments, took place. As usual in such recommendations, the Committee made a series of recommendations. I share the Committee's analysis and concerns, particularly with regard to children and the criminal justice system. Follow-up to recommendations of the Committees is systematically included in bilateral contacts. Moreover, the reporting and follow-up of recommendations from UN committees was discussed in the Belgian intervention in the framework of the previous UPR of Saudi Arabia. The fate of minors sentenced to death, such as Ali Mohammed al-Nimr, as well as human rights defenders such as Raif Badawi, are actively followed by both the Belgian embassy and the EU delegation. There are few new developments to report in these two individual files. As you know, Raif Badawi was sentenced to 1 000 canings and the execution of this punishment was stopped after the first session of 50 canings, officially for health reasons. As regards Ali Mohammed al-Nimr, I can tell you that he is being treated well in prison and that the Saudi authorities have assured that he will not be executed. At a previous committee meeting, I said that I had the opportunity, in direct contact with my colleague from Saudi Arabia, to present a defence for Raif Badawi himself. Both the EU and Belgium continue to address the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia during bilateral contacts. I myself did so last summer during a bilateral contact with my Saudi counterpart. I note that Saudi Arabia is increasingly open to dialogue, which is a good thing. Of course, many human rights challenges remain, although progress has been made here and there, as the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child also pointed out. The role of Belgium and the EU is to systematically address human rights issues in our bilateral contacts, as in other countries, as well as in multilateral fora. I am also always trying to provide the Belgian regions with concrete information on the human rights situation in different countries, especially Saudi Arabia.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u106	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We will, of course, continue to follow that up with you. We also appreciate the great efforts you have already made on these matters in your bilateral and multilateral contacts. We are calling for these efforts to continue in the future, especially as we see small openings and slight progress. We can only encourage you to continue to make efforts in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u107	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, we will end with where we started. My question concerns the ongoing discussions on a binding UN legal instrument on business and human rights. Discussions took place the week of 25 October in the intergovernmental working group on transnational corporations and other business enterprises related to human rights, established within the United Nations Human Rights Council in Geneva. Talks were held in this forum on Tuesday. There has been a clear gap between the protection of business or investor rights under free trade agreements, which we discussed at length earlier, and the ability of states to protect human rights, such as health or the environment. To date, there is no formal hierarchy between the trade and investment treaty regime and the human rights protection regime. Conflicts are now resolved by the interpretation of these respective rules in separate dispute resolution places: on the one hand, ordinary justice, and on the other, the ad hoc courts that we discussed this afternoon. However, the duty of States is to protect human rights, a duty established in international law but difficult to ensure by States in the absence of binding international mechanisms. ISDS mechanisms, and more recently ICS, do not in any way incorporate societal concerns and strictly prioritize the interests of investors – that is their goal. In the discussions, some voices were raised to give primacy to investor protection. These are voices, I haveten to say, minority. I hope that the Belgian position does not follow this line. Minister, can you confirm to me that our representative in this working group at the UN in Geneva is doing everything possible to develop, in the long run, a UN treaty establishing the primacy of human rights over trade and investment treaties? What is our country's position on this? And what internal process will Belgium set up in order to prepare its position to defend in the negotiations on a first proposal for a text, which is the next step in the process under way at the United Nations? Secondly, let us remember that Belgium is one of the 47 members of the Human Rights Council until 2018. What are the future United Nations deadlines for achieving this human rights and business treaty? Do these ongoing discussions at the UN lead you to change your attitude in federal support for the promotion of the ICS in the draft TTIP Treaty?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u108	Mr. Hellings, given the complexity at all levels of developing a legally binding instrument on transnational corporations and other business enterprises and human rights, the experts believe that discussions could take decades. In addition to the unprecedented technical difficulties in the development of such an instrument, its possible implementation raises even more questions. However, one thing is clear: in view of the above, the positive effect on respect for human rights on the ground, which, in my view, remains our priority, remains to be proved. The next deadline is the June session of the Human Rights Council, where a new resolution will have to extend the mandate of the working group in question. I invite you to study further the ins and outs of the Working Group's initiative and its programme of work; you will see that the discussions are currently at a very early stage. As a reminder, the question of the respect of human rights by companies has been the subject of discussions at the United Nations since the 1970s. This is a particularly sensitive subject for obvious reasons, cooperation between companies, trade unions, NGOs and States is an essential element in achieving better respect for human rights throughout the world. This is an issue that has been recognized at the highest level, with Kofi Annan's designation in 2005 of Professor John Ruggie as the UN Secretary-General's Special Representative on business and human rights. After six years of consultations with all stakeholders, the Professor presented the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. These guiding principles decline the responsibility of States to protect human rights, the responsibility of companies to respect human rights and the need for both actors to provide remedies and remedies for victims of violations through 31 principles that were unanimously adopted by the Human Rights Council, in which Belgium sat in June 2011. An increasing number of countries around the world, including Belgium and all the Member States of the European Union, are currently drafting action plans implementing these 31 principles. The initiative of the working group referred to in your question has been developed in parallel with that of the above-mentioned guiding principles and, in a way, in mine, effectiveness. While the establishment of a working group for the elaboration of a legally binding international instrument on transnational corporations and other business enterprises may seem commendable at first glance, the intentions of this initiative are, in my view, much less so. I would like to remind you that the initiative in question emanates from a group of countries which are not distinguished either by the virginity of their human rights bulletin or by their support for mechanisms aimed at improving the implementation of human rights in their respective territories. Indeed, the initiative aims at depriving States of their human rights obligations by transferring responsibility at the corporate level through a legal instrument, the contours of which are all the more blurred since such an instrument linking enterprises through various legal systems has never before come into being. On this point, the position of Belgium and the European Union is clear. First and foremost, States are responsible for ensuring respect for human rights in their territory. When a State is a signatory to international human rights treaties, whether the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, ILO conventions or any other treaty in this regard, it has the duty to implement the measures necessary to fulfil the obligations set forth in those conventions. The development of additional instruments, such as the one mentioned in your question, undermines the legitimacy of existing instruments such as those I have just mentioned, and thus deconstructs decades of human rights struggle. The challenges of respect for human rights by all companies around the world remain significant. We don't deny it. But I hope that my explanations will allow you to better gauge the cynicism underlying the initiative of the working group that you mentioned in your question. Aware of the challenges, Belgium will continue its efforts to implement the human rights obligations arising from the treaties to which it is a party. In the context of the issue of business respect for human rights, our country, along with the other European Union countries and an increasing number of countries around the world, is currently developing a Business and Human Rights Action Plan, implementing the relevant guiding principles developed within the United Nations. Within this framework, the Belgian State assumes its responsibilities by raising awareness of the importance of respect for human rights in its operations in Belgium and elsewhere, by developing a series of initiatives to encourage and assist Belgian companies to implement their obligations to respect human rights in their activities, and by providing remedies for victims of violations. This action plan is drawn up in cooperation with the relevant ministries at the federal level, but also with the relevant colleagues at the regional level. That's what I can say. We must be very careful sometimes about certain initiatives which might run counter to the proper application of the arrangements already in place within the United Nations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-11-08-54-commissie-ic523x.u109	Mr Minister, I thank you for your very detailed answer, particularly with regard to the timetable and your highly developed opinion. I understand that you are reluctant to participate in this ad hoc working group formed by States that you consider... Not knowing the exact list, I will not rule on the validity of your arguments. In any case, you consider that they do not respect human rights and that they do not aim at the primacy of human rights over those of investors. Nevertheless, Belgium can, on its own initiative, perhaps outside this working group, after these decades of discussions, promote a mechanism that systematically gives primacy to human rights over those of investors. I believe that we must take up this task, since, as you know better than anyone else, parallel jurisdiction mechanisms favouring multinationals are multiplying. The United Nations should oversee this system in order to ensure, ultimately, that health, the right to a healthy environment, and human rights in general prevail over investor rights.
