ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u2	The President (before the standing meeting): Colleagues, we have heard that Mr Jean-Pierre Detimimentie, honorary Quaestor of our Assembly, died on Saturday 20 February 2016. Born in Rekkem, not far from Mouscron, on 10 October 1940, our former colleague was marked by the premature disappearance of his parents: a father of Flemish origin and a French mother. After a stay in a Flemish orphanage, he became an intern at the Collège Saint-Joseph de Mouscron. He then went on to study Germanic languages and taught for a few years in Enghien and Mouscron. In March 1974, he became a member of the Cabinet of the Minister of National Education, Antoine Humblet, whom he followed in 1977 to the Middle Classes. Seduced by the city of Mouscron, it is with this particular determination of the Muscronese that he embarks on communal politics. Councillor of Mouscron from 1971 to 1975, alderman from 1976 to 1978, provincial councillor from 1978 to 1979, he became mayor of Mouscron on 1 February 1980. He soon showed his qualities, multiplying success in an area which, as all local officials know, is one of the most difficult: local economic development. Its ambition is great: to reshape the industrial fabric of Western Hainaut by using all the potentialities of the region so that it can evolve towards a real economic attraction pole. Under its impetus, many sectors flourish: mail order sales, the agricultural and food industries, the metalworking industry, the telecommunications sector. In 1981 he entered the Chamber of Representatives as a PSC representative for the Tournai-Aat-Moeskroen constituency. In our Assembly, he quickly distinguished himself by the stubbornness with which he clings to the many dossiers he is concerned with: urban policy, assistance for the disadvantaged, the status of the municipalities, the textile industry, youth unemployment, telesales. "Govern from afar, administer closely", this was the leitmotif of his political action, which led him, on certain occasions, to make himself singular during important institutional debates in which our Chamber was the scene. Faithful to his convictions, he never hesitated to throw a stone in the pond by sometimes shouting out loud what was whispering down. In the major debates on local responsibilities and regional issues, he was always at the forefront, convinced that a deputy-bourgmester is the right person to best relay the aspirations of his administration at the national level. In his last years in the Chamber, issues relating to police reform, security and asylum and immigration policy were also at the centre of his concerns. His commitment to solidarity was also reflected in his international activities. In November 1990, together with six other colleagues, he participated in a Belgian parliamentary mission to Iraq to advocate the release of 24 Belgians. In August 1992 he travelled with three other MEPs with a delegation from Doctors Without Borders and from L'Opération Villages Roumains to former Yugoslavia to report on the situation in refugee camps. He thus drew public opinion's attention to the danger to the Muslim population in Bosnia and to the war that was already smoldering in Kosovo. For Jean-Pierre Detremerie, "Detrem", as he was familiarly called, to undertake it was to live, it was the very essence of life. The torments that affected the last years of his life were probably too heavy to bear. I have presented to his wife the heartfelt condolences of this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u3	Mr President, it was with dismay and sadness that we learned of the death of Mr Jean-Pierre Detremerie. For almost a quarter of a century, he marked the life of our assembly and that of his beloved city of Mouscron, of which he was the true incarnation. Jean-Pierre Detremerie was able to place on the map his city, yet located at the edge of Wallonia, by multiplying contacts with his close French and Flemish neighbours. It was thus able to create an attractive and dynamic climate for many investors and to promote the creation of jobs, SMEs and industries in key and innovative sectors for a city that had to be reconverted after being a flagship of the textile industry. For many fellow citizens, he was also the boss of the Excelsior club, which he led from the provincial to the elite of Belgian football. This showcase of excellence for Mouscron, he also wanted it as a motor of emancipation for the youth of his region through the development of sports studies and Futurosport. The training teacher he was aware of the importance of education for the development of his region and its inhabitants. It has also been keen to mobilize this dynamism for the benefit of the weakest by supporting the multiple solidarity associations in its commune. It was his commitment to his city – employment, youth and development – that marked a whole generation. His voice as a Member of Parliament for a municipality with facilities has had a particular resonance in our Parliament. For "Detrem", it was to be manoeuvring and to build new projects in the general interest which was his reason to live. His tragic end is the painful echo for those who loved him. On behalf of the federal government, I extend our deepest condolences to his wife and family.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, let us observe a moment's silence in memory of our late colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u5	The President (before the standing meeting): Colleagues, on 18 February died in Korternaken, Godelieve Devos, honorary member of our Assembly. She entered the Chamber on 26 March 1961 as CVP representative for the arrondissement of Leuven. She was supposed to be in our Assembly until 1985. What is particularly striking, among other things, when the parliamentary career of Godelieve Devos is overflowing is its constant and very active commitment to the interests of farmers. Agricultural education, the conversion of agriculture, the role of women in agriculture and horticulture are just some of the many areas for which Mrs Devos has worked. The only list of her interventions contained in the parliamentary annals already shows her dynamism, her mastery of agricultural matters and her willingness and creativity to increase the prosperity and prospects of farmers and their families. This enumeration should not, however, obscure the endearing personality of Mrs Devos. Regent in agriculture, she managed to be re-elected for 25 years by a large majority as a Member of Parliament for the district of Leuven. Moreover, what has always been noted is the punctuality of Mrs Devos, a punctuality that has become legendary at some point. Through her faithful presence in plenary sessions and committee meetings, she has contributed to the prestige of our Parliament. Probably she was able to learn this loyalty from the commitment of her father, who was active in municipal politics for many years, and from both her grandfathers, who were both mayors. Godelieve Devos was known for her deep human qualities such as affection, understanding and tenderness also for fellow man. How many times has she not visited, in all discretion, former members of the House who, thanks to her, have been able to maintain a certain connection with the parliamentary community? Who among them did not receive a warm word from him at a happy or painful private event? Godelieve Devos has managed to keep the human aspect in mind in every policy act. In the name of our Assembly, I expressed my deepest condolences to her family, who is represented here through her sister in our gallery.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Godelieve Devos was a grand lady of Christian democracy, a woman whose life was marked by a never-ending commitment. With much warmth, she has dedicated her life to strengthening our society. In 1959 she took political responsibility for the first time and became a city council member in her beloved Korternaken. In 1965 she became ships and in 1971 she became the first female mayor of Korternaken, a mandate that she would continue to exercise with great passion for seventeen years. She has shaped her congregation and has changed a lot for the better. Until the day of her death, she remained a very popular woman in the municipality. But there are also many who here keep a good memory. She was a member of the House of Representatives for 24 years. She was among the pioneers of the regional government. In 1980 she became the second vice-president of the first Flemish Council, the predecessor of the Flemish Parliament. From 1981 to 1985 she was the first vice-president. However, the end of her active political career, at the end of the 1980s, was by no means the end of her commitment. Just like her sister Jeanne, that commitment was deeply rooted in her DNA. Got it from home and never dropped off. Godelieve Devos was one of the driving forces behind the development and professionalisation of the senior section of CD&V. As chairman, she was the spokesperson of many thousands of senior citizens between 1996 and 2008. She raised their concerns. It ensured that their questions were taken into account at all levels. The death of Godelieve Devos is a great loss, but even after her death her commitment and warmth will remain an inspiration to all who have known her. On behalf of the federal government, I would like to express my sincere condolences to her family, her relatives and her former colleagues. We wish them much strength in these difficult times.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u7	Thank you, Mr Vice Prime Minister. Let us observe a few moments of silence in memory of the late colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, may I suggest that, after the oral questions, we start discussing the draft legislation with paragraph 2. This is a draft on which there has been little discussion in committee and which has been adopted unanimously. If there are no objections to changing the order, this will be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u9	I have been informed that the Prime Minister will also answer questions concerning Syria.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u10	Mr. President, Prime Minister, travel always gives ideas. And now some of your ministers are taking sudden Moroccan inspirations. Indeed, the Minister of the Interior, having discovered, during his visit to Morocco, that local identity cards recorded all the fingerprints of Moroccan citizens or nationals, he was spontaneously conquered to the point of considering that – perhaps all cases ceasing – this example should be repeated and translated into reality or even into our legislation. Immediately, reactions followed. Firstly, the Committee on the Protection of Privacy has pointed out that we are in a legal system bound by the European Convention on Human Rights and that Article 8 of the Convention does not really make it possible to generalise fingerprinting for all citizens, because in a democratic country not all of them are left behind; those who must be left behind because of the danger they represent or the acts they have committed and who have been prosecuted by the judicial authorities are left out. There was also the reaction of Secretary of State for Privacy, Bart Tommelein, who considered this to be an untimely and unwarranted initiative. As a result, the Minister of the Interior called all these reactions "hysterical". So here's a government where the Minister of the Interior calls the words of one of his colleagues – because I dare not believe for a moment that he was attacking the Privacy Commission, which is a respectable body – "hysterics". I would therefore like to know what the government's position is on this issue. I believe that you would be well inspired by putting an end to any discussion and by announcing very quickly that the incident is closed, because there is no legal room for manoeuvre to move towards a system similar to that in force in Morocco. The violation of the European Convention on Human Rights would be immediately punished.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior have announced that they are in favour of taking fingerprints on the identity cards of our fellow citizens. Secretary of State Tommelein spoke, as well as Deputy Prime Minister De Croo. He said in the press this Wednesday that there was no question of it, that this had already been discussed in the government, that the decision had been taken against this idea and that it was not relevant. Prime Minister, it's a little messy, you'll agree with me – when it's the unity that our country needs today. Prime Minister, what is the government's real position on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u12	Prime Minister, you have been with Minister Jambon on a trip to Morocco. Minister Jambon seems to have had an idea there. He proposes to introduce the Moroccan privacy policy in our country. In concrete terms, he wants to keep track of the fingerprints of all Belgians. Open Vld, the party from which no ministers have travelled, was immediately opposed to this. You, who did travel with you, were apparently surprised. Perhaps you were too interested in your documents, as we could see. Minister, I am seriously missing out on the debate. This is a very important and delicate debate when we talk about combating terrorism. The fact that parties take positions on the basis of ideology is not a problem in itself. But when ministers launch proposals, can we expect that these proposals have been examined, that they have been checked whether they are practically feasible and whether they can be legal? A lot of comments can be made on the legal front. The Privacy Commission did so immediately. It pointed out possible violations of the European Convention on Human Rights. There are, moreover, many other arguments to add to this. As far as practice is concerned, Prime Minister, when I drive home later and the police stop me, is she not even able to check through the computer whether or not my driving licence has been withdrawn, but the Minister of the Interior wants to put all Belgians' data in such a computer? Let us remain serious! I have the impression that this is a new example of announcement policy. Hence the following questions. Firstly, what is the government's position now? Is the government in favour or against? That is a very clear question. Secondly, we have heard that the proposal would have already been discussed in the government, but that it was not accepted. Can you confirm that? Thirdly, should the proposal be accepted, what concrete steps would you like to take? Which budgets would you like to make available for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u13	Mr President, Prime Minister, you and two of your fellow Members from the Federal Government have been travelling or on a mission to Morocco. We all know the slogan: we travel to learn. During such a mission, information can indeed be obtained. Information has also been gathered. Together you visited a centre in Morocco where fingerprints are stored digitally. It was demonstrated in that center how interesting that storage can be for solving crime. Mr Jambon has given us the idea of having that system investigated. He wants this to be investigated with all the actors involved. As soon as it became known that the Minister of the Interior wanted that piste examined, there were many reactions. There were positive reactions from some eminent MEPs and security experts, such as Brice De Ruyver. They noted that the digital storage of fingerprints was certainly a good idea in the interests of safety. Other responses were also received, indicating that the legal system is in breach of European case law and privacy regulations. There were more nuanced reactions, which wanted to apply the measure not to all Belgians but to certain categories. So there were all kinds of reactions. Mr Prime Minister, the next step is, of course, that the idea ends up on the government table. I have one question. What will the government say about this? Will she decide that the slope is worth an investigation? That's what I want to know. If so, what period will that investigation take place? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u14	Prime Minister, we have seen you at work in Morocco at the beginning of the week. Also on stocking feet, figuratively speaking, your Minister of the Interior, inspired by the Moroccans, proposed to keep track of the fingerprints of all Belgians from now on. Open Vld reacted immediately, not hysterical but basically from the bottom of our liberal heart. Of course, there is no problem with keeping fingerprints of people who pose a risk to our society. What is the point, however, of claiming, keeping and using the fingerprints of 11 million Belgians, if the government so wishes? Is that proportionate to the problem? Is everyone suddenly suspicious, Prime Minister? What happens to freedom of movement in Europe if we introduce such a system in our little Belgium, when the other European countries do not know it? Then what's the point? What is the cost of such a system? Last but not least, what about the legal side and the legality? What is happening with the ruling of the European Court of Justice and the condemnation of Great Britain? Those arguments are still independent of our concerns about privacy. I am looking at the Secretary of State, who has responded from that point of view. In short, Open Vld wants to focus primarily on efficient management of the current databases and information rather than collecting as much data as possible. I have one question for you, Prime Minister. I quote your response at the beginning of this week: Asking for advice from the Privacy Commission can't hurt, but making sure that we don't compromise the privacy of citizens, that's what we have to do. What is the point of such advice? Actually, it's already known. The advice is negative. The N-VA has already put such a proposal to my knowledge on the government table. It was wiped off the table. That is why I would like an answer to this specific question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the questions asked show the sensitivity of the debate we are facing. I want to say it's not new. In recent years, in all major democracies, not only in Belgium, the question of a balance to be struck in which the right to security comes into play has arisen. Biometry and medical innovation can provide information. I am thinking, for example, of DNA databases. How can they be used? Under what conditions in relation to security? I am pleased that the questions from the government or parliament show a reflection on this subject, which I believe calls for a nuanced answer. I'll make a first observation. Following the attacks in New York on 11 September 2001, the European Council in Belgium opted for biometric passports. In our country today about 1 million Belgians have a biometric passport. This means that there are already a million citizens in our country who have identity documents with a biometric footprint, with fingerprints. In fact, we in this Parliament have been careful to keep a few nuances in this respect. Indeed, a law, which entered into force at the beginning of 2015, organises the way in which data can be used and stored precisely with the aim of finding this balance between the issue of security in international transport through biometric passports, on the one hand, and the concern for respect for privacy and the principle of proportionality, on the other. Secondly, a few months ago, after the attacks in Paris, we took 18 measures in the fight against terrorism. In this context, we also took the decision of principle in the nuclear cabinet to use the list of OCAD, with a preventive approach. We have made the decision in principle to use biometric fingerprints in order to be able to obtain information about the persons listed in the Ocam. However, the implementation arrangements will have to be returned to the government in the near future. As far as the visit to Morocco is concerned, let us be clear and put a little shade in what I have heard. I was present, together with the Minister of the Interior and the Secretary of State for Migration, to validate an agreement on migration, a cooperation agreement which is an important step in the right direction with the Kingdom of Morocco. In this context, we have learned that Moroccans systematically use biometric identity cards with fingerprints. What did the Minister of the Interior say? Not that identity cards would be generalized with biometric fingerprints, but that it was useful to seek advice on this matter from the Privacy Commission. This shows that the Minister of the Interior himself is aware and convinced of the need to find that balance between privacy and the right to security. I hear reactions on both sides; I hear sometimes radical positions. It seems reasonable, rational, to allow parliamentarians, members of the government responsible for security, to reflect on how to find this principle of proportionality, this delicate balance between the right to security, fundamental freedoms and the right to privacy. I can confirm that it was decided, in a first Kern discussion, not to retain the option of a general use of ID cards with fingerprints. But it is possible for a minister to make proposals on the basis of new elements, legal reflections, operational reflections. A decision can only be taken if four parties, which form a majority, agree with this desire to move forward. Finally, in the last few hours I have been interested in what is happening elsewhere in Europe. Other countries, however, which are not suspected of not being democratic, use in whole or in part the ability to have fingerprints for identity cards. Thus, links are made in Portugal, Spain and Germany on a voluntary basis. These are not just safety-related, they are sometimes search-related issues in case of disappearance or in case of accident, for example. As you will have understood, this debate deserves nuance. We are faced with a delicate time. This means that we must take measures to ensure the safety of our fellow citizens. However, Democrats are obliged to take measures in accordance with our fundamental values, the right to privacy, the right to self-defense. Those are important principles. We will still often have the opportunity to ask ourselves questions, on this and other matters, in this House. It is a question of proportionality between the right to security on the one hand and the right to privacy and the right to defence on the other. This is exactly the same debate we have had, for example, on prepaid gsm cards for which we have also taken decisions in principle that balance these extremely important interests. Thank you for allowing me to give a nuanced answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u16	Prime Minister, of course, it is not desirable for public finances, but perhaps it is necessary, when you go away like this, to take more members of your government, so that they understand each other better as to the interpretation of what is being said so far away. Clearly, both a Deputy Prime Minister and a Secretary of State understood what we understood. That's not surprising. Jambon has this small defect – he is not the only one – to like the ad effects. He is bold and then he realizes the limits of his proposals. We remember Molenbeek. Mrs Schepmans had to reframe him a little. We are not discussing the details here. It is true that in some cases fingerprints can be used to identify certain people. But every time, we have to see the purpose, the proportionality, the need for security. This is certainly not an undifferentiated general measure without proportionality. This was indeed Mr Jambon's temptation. He's not here. Maybe he's putting his prints where you don't want to. Let him become more careful in the future! This is desirable in politics for your government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u17	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. The French Socialist Prime Minister said: "We are at war. Our country has sent F-16s to Syria." The NATO Chief of Staff states that "Daech is like the metastases of cancer and infiltrates via migrant flows". You were talking about the balance between security and privacy. I agree. But in exceptional circumstances, exceptional measures! That is what our fellow citizens expect of you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u18	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply, which is very remarkable. You confirm that the subject was already discussed in the nuclear cabinet, but that the idea was not taken into consideration. Then you go to Morocco with the Minister of the Interior and when you return you start to change your mind yourself. You were quite right to speak of a balance. Such delicate exercises must always strike a balance between the protection of fundamental rights and privacy, on the one hand, and the fight against serious crime and terrorism, on the other. I have the impression that this balance in this government is constantly taking hold and seeking limits that are unacceptable. I am curious to see how you will get out of there in the government, because just now, in Villa Politica, Deputy Prime Minister De Croo clearly said "Ono pasarán". Prime Minister, I think there are far greater challenges in today's battle. Without going into more detail, I'm referring to what's in the papers today. Our security services have the tools at their disposal today, but they are not sufficiently developed. They have insufficient resources and resources. It is much more useful to use it and invest in it in the short term than to develop new slopes, to leave on new balloons, which are doomed to fail.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u19	Prime Minister, I welcome your answer when you say that the dossier will be examined further. That's what the Home Secretary wanted. It is indeed necessary for this to be investigated. You mentioned that yourself. This afternoon I just requested the figures and I quote: Since the first municipality switched to Belpas and registration of fingerprints on the passport, since December 2012, 940 000 passports with fingerprints for applicants over 12 years of age have already been produced in Belgium. I think several speakers who spoke today did not know that. 940 000 applicants are therefore already registered with fingerprints, without any problems with privacy. I would like to ask you, if the file is examined, that these data are therefore kept under review. We owe that to our safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u20	Mr President, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. Prime Minister, at all times we must keep our heads down and keep the balance you have spoken of. When I hear a minister say that whoever has nothing to hide should fear nothing, I feel a cold chill on my back. Where does that get us anyway? Then suddenly we also put in a generalised search warrant so that the police can always enter anywhere? With whom there is nothing to hide, the government certainly has no reason to restrict fundamental civil rights. Mr Degroote, you said that we travel to learn. I fully agree with that, but my group would rather not take an example of the privacy, security and human rights policies of an autocratic monarchy such as Morocco.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u21	Mr President, Prime Minister, you wanted to provide a nuanced answer to the previous questions. My speech will be just as much. Yesterday I learned from the press, like all the Belgians, that a formal request from the United States had been sent to our country to extend our military intervention against Daesh to Syria at the beginning of July. For my group, given its implications, the answer to such a request cannot, of course, be given as a matter of urgency and, in my view, requires a debate in Parliament. We will recall the statements made by Minister Vandeput last September, who said he was ready to send troops to Syria. In order for my remarks not to be interpreted, I would of course point out that all means must be used to combat terrorism and Daesh. As I recall, it is in this sense that my group supported, in September 2014, the resolution that was adopted by this Parliament, allowing Belgian military intervention in Iraq via our F-16s. But you know, Syria, it's not Iraq. The military and political situation there is much more complicated. And we must also count on the absence of a UN framework for such an intervention. Minister, what exactly is the U.S. request for F-16 strikes over Syria? What is the government's planned response to this request? Will the House be consulted? If so, will a resolution be voted on? How can such an extension of our military intervention be made possible in practice when no UN mandate exists? In this context, how could the Belgian army define the targets to be achieved, for example? Will we work with the Assad regime to do this? Finally, if I may, Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Prime Minister to give me a brief overview of the overall response he intends to give in the context of the DDD approach (diplomacy, defence, sustainable development) to which our country adheres both in terms of the fight against Daesh in the region, and in terms of the imperative search for a post-Assad political solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u22	Prime Minister, we have learned through the press that the United States Minister of Defence has also requested the intervention of Belgian F-16s in Syria. It did not take a few hours for our Foreign Minister to communicate his enthusiasm for this participation, which surprised me very much. My speech aims to express my opposition to the intervention of Belgian troops and aircraft in Syria in the coming weeks. In September 2014, we were the only party to vote against the bombings in Iraq. We were one of the only parties to oppose interventions in Libya, Afghanistan. That vote against the Labour Party was very deliberate. In September 2014, we said that these bombings in Iraq would not solve the situation. We said at that time that this would multiply the hotspots of terrorism in the world. And that is also the case, in 2001 there was one hotspot of terrorism, today there are fifteen. What's the bilan of our bombing? What is the bilan of the interventions of our F-16 Tunisians in Libya, Afghanistan and Iraq? Secondly, we said in September 2014 that there would be millions of refugees. Today there are 15 million Syrian refugees. Thirdly, you say there is no money for development cooperation, but there is money for our F-16 people to go bombing. What is this double standard? There is no money for development cooperation, but there is money to bomb these countries? Mr Minister, as you will understand, we are against these bombings in Syria because they are not part of the solution. We are against these bombings in Syria because it is shown that the balance sheet is negative. There must be room for an inclusive process based on peace among Syrians, providing for a reduction in the involvement of all major world powers, which, let us not hide it, have geopolitical agendas. We don't go there to bring well-being, but we go there because there are geopolitical issues. That must stop! The Iraqi and Syrian peoples must no longer be victims of all these calculations. My question will be very simple: Mr Minister, will the Belgian F-16s sow death in Syria in the coming weeks?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u23	Prime Minister, I hope that the fact that you are here, not Didier Reynders, is a sign that the government is looking at the problem in Syria a little more rationally than Didier Reynders. I hope you can keep that minister in check, Prime Minister, because that is really necessary. I was really shocked by the speed with which Didier Reynders announced that we should go to Syria. I would like to take this opportunity to ask you the questions I wanted to ask him. I hope you can give me an answer. First of all, does little Belgium and its F-16s have anything to add to the flying firepower that hangs in the Middle East? Americans, British, French, Russian, Saudi and Turks are already present with their planes. Do we have anything more useful to do for Syria and to bomb its people there too? Isn't there anything else we can do? Secondly, on what legal grounds did your Foreign Minister say that we can bomb there? Thirdly, who will we bomb there, Prime Minister? We agree on IS, but will we also bomb al-Nusra, Ahrar al-Sham or more than ninety other fighting groups in Syria? Fourthly, Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya have taught us that bombing doesn't work without partners on the ground. My question to you and to the Foreign Minister is therefore who our partners are on the ground. Are we talking about Assad, the Hezbollah army or the unruly Kurdish troops, which we also know have blood on their hands? Shall we support it? Finally, the last and most important question, from Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya, is that bombing without a political strategic plan for the future of a country, for peace and stability in the region, is the stupidest thing we can do. The Flemish proverb, Prime Minister, says that a donkey does not hit the same stone twice. I hope the government doesn't knock itself out for the fourth time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, I am also pleased that you were speaking on behalf of the government, because it was thought that there were nuances in the reactions of the parties of the majority today. As you know, our party believes that the current situation is ambiguous, confused or even hypocritical, since we are actually engaged in de facto fighting in Syria. We were part of the naval group with Charles de Gaulle. Our frigate was present and we knew that Charles de Gaulle was there to strike in Syria. And in Amman, our forces protect Dutch F-16s who intervene in Syria. We are de facto already engaged in this war in Syria. The Parliament's resolution of September 2014 is therefore out of date in practice. I think it is time for a debate in Parliament to support, to frame, to clarify political and military objectives, targets, context, legal basis. In our view, intervention in Syria is necessary and legitimate. We know that's where the killers who hit in Paris left. We know that this is where other attacks are being fomented. We are in a state of self-defence. We also know that major battles will take place in the coming weeks in Mosul, Raqqa, and that the entire international coalition is expected to intervene by air or other means, so that we can finally eradicate this threat to the Syrian people and the international community. I hope that a debate will take place without delay on all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u25	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the real reason for the question is clear. Today, Europe is facing an immense flow of refugees from Syria and Iraq. We may have looked the other way for too long, but if we want to tackle the problems, we also need to look at the problems in the region. Beating Daesh without military action seems to me to be out of the question, but based on past experience, we know that only military action is insufficient and can never be a solution. That is why we must strive for a comprehensive political strategy, the military aspect of which can be a part. Of course, important today in Syria is the ceasefire that has been in force for a few days. Also crucial is the diplomacy that is delivering today in Geneva and in all other places. Our group believes that our country, that you as Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister should play an active role in this. When we talk about a military option, although we are not yet ready, we have to take into account three elements: a legitimate question of a government or of a population group, the involvement of regional actors and an international mandate, either from the UN or the EU or through other frameworks. We believe that such a decision to participate in a military operation in Syria deserves an important parliamentary debate. This is an important matter and our group believes that this should be discussed in Parliament. Prime Minister, Mr President, what precise question did our country receive from the United States? Can we have access to the letter from the United States? Is the government prepared to debate this matter with Parliament beforehand? Within what international mandate can such a mission take place? What elements and conditions does the government intend to attach to this? What political strategy will our country follow in this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u26	Prime Minister, what has long been expected has now happened: the US has officially asked Belgium to intensify the fight against ISIS and extend it to Syria. We debated and approved a similar question here in the hemisphere in 2014. That was a question from Iraq to help them on their territory. That debate was based on international legal grounds. We must think carefully about this new question from the US, we must not just venture into a foreign adventure without a clear political plan for Syria. It's not just about adjusting the range of our F-16 species in the region. No, it is an important decision and the question of cross-compliance has to be asked. The situation in Syria is infinitely more complex than that in Iraq. Several great powers are present at the same time and in action. The Syrian government has not asked us, it is the US that is asking us. IS also hides among the local population and uses them as a human shield against the weapons. I therefore believe that certain conditions should be examined, starting with respect for humanitarian law. Furthermore, we need to know which area is involved. Is it just Eastern Syria, where ISIS is present? What is the political plan for Syria's political future? In the meantime, we must also make the most of diplomacy, of the negotiations in Geneva. Prime Minister, we know that this is a government decision, but it is important for our party to have a serious and thought-out debate in the Chamber. Hence my three questions. Firstly, what is the United States' specific question to Belgium? By what time does the government intend to respond? Secondly, are we simply asking for the deployment of F-1673s or can we also help the international coalition in other ways? Thirdly, will there be a prior debate in Parliament? Is your government open to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are facing a serious, delicate debate which deserves our attention in order to make the best possible decisions. I would point out that we are in cooperation with the Netherlands, where, in July of last year, we had transferred the relay to eight F-16s from the Netherlands and, as Mr Dallemagne said, we are taking on protective tasks for the F-16s in question. A few months ago, the government took a decision, supported by a debate in parliament, to accompany the aircraft carrier Charles de Gaulle with the frigate Léopold who returned to Belgium in the course of January. A rotation is planned with the Netherlands from July 2016. Again, our F-16s should resume a number of actions. In this regard, a few days ago we received a letter from the US Secretary of State for Defence. It calls for an extension of the mandate given to our F-16s to Syrian territory and more only limited to Iraqi territory. What are the legal bases? There were clear questions about this. That is an important point, because the legal part must also be looked at. There are two important points. A first important point is a UN resolution of November 2015, drawn up at the initiative of France. It is a resolution that gives a mandate to combat Daesh in the territories over which it has control; that is the terms of the resolution. Some also refer to Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations, which refers to the case of self-defence. This is the reasoning that the Netherlands took to decide on an extension of the mandate on Syrian soil. I am now responding in concrete terms to the questions raised. Yes, the government, in accordance with the Constitution, will have to quickly consider what response to the letter sent to it by the United States. This discussion will take place within the Government and a decision will be taken in accordance with the Constitution. Yes, an in-depth debate must take place in Parliament. The various ministers must be able to explain the overall strategy. I have a few important points to make in this regard. Mr van der Maelen, I have always advocated a strategy in which we learn lessons from the past. Libya is a very bad example. I share that reasoning. This means that, in addition to a military initiative and action, it is necessary and crucial to follow a diplomatic and political reasoning and strategy. That is the intention within the United Nations under the leadership of Staffan de Mistura in Geneva. As you know, there is a strategy to give democratic transition a chance. That is an important point. So there is both a military side and a diplomatic and political strategy, but there is also humanitarian support. A few weeks ago, I was in London at a conference on humanitarian aid. Together with Minister Alexander De Croo, we released €75 million for more support to refugees. Humanitarian option, political option, military option. The military option is delicate, so we will make decisions, we fully assume our responsibilities. Finally, Mr. Hedebouw, I listened carefully to your inquiries. Yes, there is a political issue, there is a geopolitical issue. It is in this region, in the South of Europe, that there is insecurity and instability that are affecting human lives. There were 130 deaths a few months ago at Bataclan in Paris, on terraces, in football stadiums! Our responsibility as Europeans is to stand together in international coalitions to defend security at home and stability at the borders of the European Union!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u28	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. I would say, on behalf of my group, that the conditions for our F-16s to intervene are not currently met because there is no clear UN framework. There is therefore no international legitimacy. When you say that military intervention alone will not solve the crisis, I agree with you. We must be part of any initiative that must help the populations affected by these abuses, both in humanitarian, political and socio-economic terms. No bombardment in the world could be a political and diplomatic solution. We will have to find solutions for the post-Assad, we will have to find political solutions for the post-Daesh. I am glad that there is a rational and moderate debate in this House because I did not at all appreciate the intervention of one of my colleagues, N-VA, this week, who was already calling for intervention in Libya when there is no request from the Libyan government, which is barely constituted. This deserves better than matamoresque statements!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u29	Prime Minister, let's talk about geopolitics! How do you explain such a strength of terrorist organizations? That is the question of the balance sheet in Libya. We intervened because we were supposedly going to bring democracy there. We have brought only chaos, which is conducive to the development of all these international terrorist organizations. We have destabilized Syria. Mr. Reynders, who is not here, called on everyone to overthrow and bomb Syria in 2012. Western interventions bring war and death to these countries. Today is the twenty-fifth anniversary of the bombings in Iraq. We have brought chaos to these countries and chaos brings terrorism. I have heard the reasoning of self-defence. But be careful, ladies and gentlemen! What's self-defense? That means that we can go and bomb all the countries where terrorists are present. Is this the new international law made by Mr Michel here today? No, we do not want this international law. It is time to have multilateral diplomacy because today, in Syria, it is with NATO member countries, countries like Russia that, slowly but surely, we are moving towards aggravating factors, which will polarize and which are likely to lead – and I do not wish – to a third world war. That's what we're dealing with. That is why we must shoulder our responsibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u30	Mr President, Prime Minister, I like your message more than the message we heard from Didier va-t-en-guerre at the beginning of this week. Prime Minister, I would ask you to restrain your Minister for Foreign Affairs. He's not the first to be the best. He's the chief of your government's traffic jam on foreign operations decision-making. So what he said is not without interest. Prime Minister, keep him in check. He's a contractor without a construction plan. He was already in control of the demolition hammer of the bombings at a time when he didn't know where to go with Syria. I've listened to you. You're right. In Geneva, Staffan de Mistura continues on 9 March, but there is no plan yet. They will try to draw up a plan. We ask that we do not go blindly bombing, or else we will find the same mess we left there in Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya. Let us have this debate quickly. Let's assess the situation together. I hope that the government and Parliament can debate each other in an adult way. It is not an easy decision, but difficult decisions must also be taken, especially on these important matters, preferably after an adult debate in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u31	Prime Minister, thank you. I hear you confirm that you are in favour of a debate in Parliament. I think it must be a prerequisite to the government's decision. You have all the time to make a decision, since this application will not apply until July 1. In any case, it is important for the government to have an in-depth debate on this matter. In substance, I am always surprised to hear those who say that we must continue to abstain. This war has been going on for five years. Europe abstained and wanted to see elsewhere. This is the so-called lesson she had learned from Libya and Iraq! This has caused 300,000 deaths, Mr Hedebouw, 12 million refugees and terrorist attacks everywhere! It is our abstention, not our intervention, which is at the root of the present situation! Those who say that we must not intervene do not know that Baghdad was saved, like Kobane, that Sinjar was taken over, that Erbil and Ramadi were delivered through the military intervention of the international coalition. All these cities would be under the rule of the Islamic State today if the planes had not intervened. It is true that Belgium takes refuge in a certain hypocrisy, since it intervenes without saying it in Syria. That is why I believe that it is time to establish the clarity, solidity and foundations of action in Syria and to see what political framework and military capacity we will intervene in.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u32	Mr President, Prime Minister, ISIS cannot be stopped by borders and we must fight IS with all the legitimate means, across borders. We must, of course, respect the international legal order. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not going to be an easy decision. Mr Prime Minister, that is why we must discuss this issue openly in this House. I am also pleased that you say that we should indeed consider a political-diplomatic strategy and that we should use all possible means to do so. We know from experience, of course, that a military approach does not lead to solutions. The CD&V Group calls for this to be looked at openly in this House. We also call for an international mandate, because without an international mandate, we are going outside the international legal order, and that cannot be the intention at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u33	Mr President, Prime Minister, we are pleased that you confirm that the parliamentary debate will take place on this subject. Perhaps we should be able to think further in this parliamentary debate to see what other instruments we can offer to the international coalition. We should look at what Germany and Canada are doing today, perhaps we should also be able to talk about it in this House. In the meantime, we must continue to monitor the situation in the region, in three areas. Firstly, there is the political-diplomatic plane. It is encouraging that the fragile ceasefire has been in place in the region for five days now. This proves that the political-diplomatic strategy is paying off. Secondly, the humanitarian part is very important and, thirdly, the military part is also important. The extension of the action, if you choose to do so, must certainly not replace political action. For our party, military enlargement must strengthen and complement humanitarian and political actions where necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u34	Mr President, Minister, according to the information I have been able to obtain from the unions, your government once again wants to violently attack part-time workers by reducing their protection and rights. I admit I was shocked to hear about your proposal for part-time workers. Two points in particular shock me. The first concerns the fact that these workers will know their working hours only 24 hours in advance instead of five working days at present; the second concerns the fact that the working regulations will not mention working days and hours but a range during which the worker will have to be available for work. For my group, you will understand that this system is completely invivable. Rather than recite a long speech, I will take a concrete example, that of a young single woman and mother, who has to look after her children and who will learn the day before that, the next day, she will have to work from 3:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. In concrete terms, how will it organize itself? Who's gonna pick up the kids at school? Who'll take care of it until 8:00 p.m.? If these measures are proven, they will obviously disrupt the personal and family life of these part-time workers. We know your model. What you put on the table is the British model – the zero-hour contract. The consequences are known in the United Kingdom, where the number of poor workers has exploded to five million. It is undeniably essential to work to reduce the number of unemployed, but it is equally essential to ensure the reduction of the working poor. Your measures penalize all part-time workers, but I think you are also targeting women who make up 78% of these workers. I confess that I expected something else from you, a few days before International Women's Day. Minister, let me remind you that living is not just working. Work must allow for the emergence of life projects and must remain a vehicle for personal and family development. Mr Minister, it is essential to hear and understand this: what workers are now asking for is a better reconciliation between private and professional life. When will you finally take steps in this direction, instead of overly flexibilising part-time work solely for the benefit of employers? What concrete measures will you propose in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u35	Minister, with this government you have raised the retirement age to 67 years. The question that concerns most workers now is how they can cope with it. How the hell can they do that? You didn't have an answer to that question. That is why you have organised a round table to introduce initiatives on workable work. Last week you said here in the Chamber that you are prepared to listen to any good proposal, whether it comes from the majority or from the opposition. Mr Minister, this is a theme that is very close to my heart. I've organized round tables myself. However, I did not organize round tables with experts, but I went to listen to the people in the workplace. You know what I've heard there from a lot of people? What they want above all from the initiatives on workable work is security. The stress they're having makes them tired, wears them out. People want security! You have asked the NAR for an opinion on your draft law, so that part-time workers with a variable timetable will only be told one day in advance how many hours they have to work and from when to when. The cynical thing about this story is that you want to incorporate it into a draft on workable work. What this has to do with workable work, frankly, escapes me. After all, your design will increase the stress of these people. I would like to give an example of a mother who has to wait every day to see whether or not she should provide care for her children in the next day. If she only knows that one day in advance, will she succeed in finding shelter or not? I deliberately set the example of a mother, because most people who have such a part-time contract are women. I thought, Minister, that your ambition was that people would work more, that they would perform more hours. How do you want someone with a part-time contract to take on a second part-time contract if he only gets his schedule the day before? I have only one question for you, Minister. Are you willing to withdraw your design, because it's a bad design? It has nothing to do with workable work. It only puts people with even more stress. I hope your answer will be positive.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u36	Mr President, Minister, on the occasion of our regular discussions in the Committee on Social Affairs, you asked me to help you find a French translation of the concept werkbaar werk on which you often come back. Be aware that I continue to search for a translation as eloquent as the original version. Having said that, I can already tell you, Minister of Employment, that your proposal for a zero-hour contract is not feasible. Mr Peeters, a zero-hour contract is not workable. Imagine, Mr. Peeters, that you are a part-time worker. At the time it is (Thursday, 3:36), you don't know if you're going to work tomorrow, how many hours you're going to work, what time you're going to work, morning, evening, cut work or not? Is that something comfortable? And tomorrow, the same thing; and all your professional life, the same thing. It's not work that can be done! In doing so, Mr. Peeters, who are you touching? Women, women workers. Definitely, this government doesn't like women workers. There are 80 per cent of part-time workers who are women; 80 per cent of single-parent families are mothers. Imagine that they should be subjected to the abolition of the supplement of allowances for part-time work, the abolition of similar periods decided by the previous government, accentuated by it, the lack of resources for the Maintenance Claims Service, the questioning of time credit. Where are you going to stop, Mr. Peeters? We ask you very clearly to abandon this very bad project and rather to listen to the numerous and regular proposals that we have already made with my colleague, Mrs Evita Willaert, not later than last week, and very regularly with our Tandem plan. Often, Mr. Peeters, you present yourself as the social face of this government. But now, either you've made a mistake, or you're showing your real face.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues Winckel, Kitir and Gilkinet always stress the importance of social consultation and they are right. You are right to emphasise the social dialogue every time. On this issue, the social partners reached agreement in the Group of Ten in 2013 on the modernisation of labour law. This agreement has not yet been fully transposed into Belgian law. The implementation of that agreement is included in the coalition agreement. In the coalition agreement, therefore, we made it very clear that the agreement, which has not yet been implemented, was directed, among other things, by the Minister for Labour. I had a number of draft laws drawn up in December 2015 and submitted them to the National Labour Council. One concerns the simplification of part-time work. The first point I want to make is that the objective of this draft is administrative simplification of procedures, but without social deterioration and without endangering or reducing the social protection of people. I understand that a number of publications have been sent into the world, even supported by Members of Parliament, something that is in itself nothing wrong. However, I can tell you that there are factual inaccuracies in what is scattered, including in what you refer to. For example, the draft law does not automatically reduce the notification period for variable timetables to one day. Those who put that up didn't read the bill properly. The time limit for notification must be laid down in the employment rules. Furthermore, the draft law does not abolish additional hours' pay and there are no zero-hour contracts at all. You may ask me anything, but you must be correct and read the bill properly. For the record, it is a draft law and I have asked the National Labour Council to give an opinion on it. It is, of course, important that the debate in the National Labour Council is conducted by both employees and employers. I hope they give me some advice. A second important point I would like to make is that I will take account of the comments made by the social partners and the opinion of the National Labour Council. One way of taking account of this opinion might be to include this problem in the menu of the draft law on manoeuvrable/workable work currently being prepared. For the sake of clarity, it is about administrative simplification. It is also about an approval in the labour regulations. There's a minimum of one working day. If the three fellow Members say they are waiting for the opinion of the National Labour Council and ask me if I will follow it when it comes, then my answer is yes. It is about administrative simplification. I will take into account the social situations of men and women and of all those who have to work in such a situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u38	Minister, thank you for your answer. We'll be waiting for the NTC's opinion on your project. [[I have heard your answer, in which you refer to the objective of administrative simplification without social decline of workers.]] We'll pay attention to it. You mentioned that there would be no automatic discount at 24 hours. This still leaves an opening to this kind of process. We will also pay attention to this, because we believe that this is not a good way to organise work and it leaves workers in a precarious situation. We hope that, thanks to your bill, the workers will not again be the turkeys of the farce. We will ensure that it is truly a social lift, a plus, because we must hear the ras-le-bol of a part of society, that it is poor workers, that it is part-time workers. We must be able to hear it and work by taking measures and implementing policies that will improve the lives of these workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u39	Minister, I hear you saying that you are being miscited and that falsehoods are being spread. The truth is that you step away from a collective protection whereby you get your work schedule five days in advance; you want to schedule it in an employment regulations. This means that the weaker workers will not make it and they will have flags anyway, because they will only get their work schedule one day in advance. We are in favour of maintaining collective protection. Let us be honest, Minister, is it so much to ask for a week's work schedule in advance so that one can organize one's private life? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u40	Minister, as ecologists, we want to improve employment in this country, both quantitatively (more people at work) and qualitatively (with better working conditions). As I told you via Twitter, it's not all to throw in your ten proposals. But there are proposals that we do not accept. That of a zero-hour contract, we reject it in terms of the protection of workers. As I told you, we will wait for the opinion of the National Labour Council, if there is one. If there is none, the hand will come back to the government and we will not let you do it. What you and some people are considering, between the lines, is flexibility of work. On the other hand, some proposals are interesting and we agree to discuss them. Other proposals are also to be put on the table and we will table them. I am thinking of our Tandem plan to share working time between older workers who want to lift their feet and young workers who only ask for one thing, to work. It is a positive, modern way of considering work. On the other hand, Mr. Minister for Employment, zero-hour contracts will be without us!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u41	Mr Minister, today, in De Standaard, among others, you pointed out the risk that the necessary activation measures taken by the government will lead to a shift from unemployment to incapacity for work, and that this will not achieve the budgetary effects envisaged. That is a perfectly correct remark, given the exploding figures of incapacity for work. Our group pointed out this danger months ago. You also indicate that, together with your colleague De Block, you have worked out measures to get disabled workers back to work. I suspect that you are referring to the famous employment integration plan, which every sick worker would receive within three months. The N-VA has always strongly advocated this concept. It is also an important element in the coalition agreement. When will the employment integration plan finally be introduced? We have talked a great deal about it in the last few months of last year. There was an agreement with the social partners at the end of December. There was also a Christmas agreement in the government about that. Since then, however, I have still not seen any adapted texts. I haven't heard from it either. The sense of urgency seems to be a bit gone, while many disabled people urgently need that instrument and the budgetary objectives are otherwise seriously compromised. In addition to the question of timing, I have two more substantive questions about the new system. Firstly, has the procedure been adapted so that the reintegration plan will be drawn up at the latest after three months? In the texts before Christmas, we are talking about a period of six to sometimes twelve months, while everyone agrees that rapid intervention will dramatically increase the chances of success. Secondly, do you have any idea of the response mechanism that you will use for employers and employees? The sanction was abolished, but the idea of accountability was also part of the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u42	Mr Spooren, I thought you would mention the wonderful news that there are EUR 467 million less spending in the RVA thanks to the measures taken by the previous and current governments on SWT, deployment benefits, time credit and runways. I suspect that this is also an important element of policy for the N-VA, with many positive budgetary consequences, and we must continue to do so. I can see that you would have liked to put it that way. We shall ensure that the reduction in expenditure is not offset by higher expenditure on other items, such as housing workers or the long-term sick, which would make the measures a pocket-of-pocket operation. I understand your question. In the government, together with my colleague, Maggie De Block, I have made decisions based on what the social partners have agreed on the reintegration of long-term ill. We have worked hard and are almost done with the royal decisions. We know very well that they must enter into force very quickly, because they will be subject to an evaluation. That way we can see if we are on the right track. We will be happy to provide you with the relevant KBJVs as soon as my colleague and I have completed them. I assume that you will respond as enthusiastically to this as to the fact that the RVA will have to spend EUR 467 million less in 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u43	Minister, I have no problem playing on a great good news show. If there are good results, that may also be said. I sometimes have the impression that people forget that there is still a lot of work to be done and that other measures are certainly so important. There is no point in making a profit in one area if one loses it immediately on another. The main aim of the N-VA is to ensure that social security is affordable, not by cutting beneficiaries' benefits, not even those of the long-term sick. We do want to reduce the influx to social security and speed up the outflow. There are many thousands of disabled people who can get a job provided the necessary guidance. I believe that it is a very great responsibility of the government to take urgent action.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u44	Mr President, Minister, chance, misinformation, misinformation or misinterpreted information, who knows, but for the umpteenth time it appears that at least a number of possible mistakes have been made in connection with this investigation. It is about the call from the female member of the Brussels anti-terror unit on the night of 10-11 July to her superior stating that the Abdeslam brothers were radicalised, that they were preparing an attack and that they were under the influence of the famous terrorist of IS, Abdelhamid. Nothing or very little would have been done with that information. After the attack in Paris, 16 months later, on 13 November 2015, an e-mail from the agent was sent to the services concerned asking what actually happened to that information, after she had taken note of the who and how behind the attack in Paris. Today I read in a press release from the federal police that none of this is of any concern, that the name of the Abdeslam brothers has never been mentioned by the police officer concerned and that the file has therefore been filed vertically. Two cases one. You may know, yesterday an agent, I assume the female agent involved, was questioned for hours by the P Committee. From these circles, the information, which was already in a number of French-language newspapers last week, would have been leaked to a number of newspapers. Mr Minister, my questions are obvious. Is it true what we read in the papers about this case? What happened to the information from the female agent concerned in the Brussels anti-terror unit? Was the information given by the female officer concerned to the federal police by telephone also transferred to the courthouse? What's in that famous e-mail from the officer in question dated 13 November 2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u45	Mr President, Mr Dewinter, I have also taken note of the articles in question in the press dealing with facts of 2014, before this government was in position. A study by the P Committee is currently under way by Parliament, specifically on this situation. On Monday there will be a meeting in this Parliament of the follow-up committee of the P Committee, specifically on this investigation. The P Committee has already submitted an interim report, in which I was consulted yesterday. There is no letter in there about these facts. I assume that, with the information contained in the articles, the P Committee will also examine this aspect in the course of its research. We will therefore wait for the results of the Committee P's examination to see whether these facts, or what part of them, have occurred. If there are shortcomings because of the police, I can assure you that you will find a partner in me to put this right.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u46	Minister, I note that you are very careful and cautious. That's wise in this file. I also note that you will not at any time be joining the federal prosecutor's press release, which has been distributed today. You also do not answer my question to what extent the services of the federal police or the federal prosecutor have informed you of the facts. The fact that you are so cautious may already be leading the way for what remains to be done in the whole dossier. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the question is to what extent it might be useful and useful to leave the investigation not only to the P Committee, but to ensure that Parliament itself would set up a committee of inquiry. I also know that the P Committee was set up precisely for such investigations. I also know, however, that the P Committee conducts its investigations in a very discreet manner, as it is called, and does little in the public domain. On the other hand, a parliamentary committee of inquiry has more possibilities in this area. We have therefore put forward a question on this subject, just as I have seen from the CdH report, to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Belgium has more than 180 000 apartment buildings, of which 33 000 are in Brussels. In view of the demographic changes in our cities, this figure will increase further in the years to come. In the meantime, these buildings, much of which were built before the 1970s, are aging, and sometimes they age poorly. The question then arises of the high cost of the necessary renovations. Many co-owners do not necessarily have the means to cope with these renovations. Without agreement between them, this work is regularly postponed. The National Union of Owners and Co-owners (SNPC) even speaks of a social time bomb if nothing is done to cope with the aging of these buildings. Indeed, the municipalities are facing increasing difficulties related to the uninhabitability and security of these dwellings. The SNPC makes claims, including the creation of a cadastre of common buildings per municipality, the creation by the co-owners of a compulsory reserve for the realization of the works and the reduction of the quotas necessary to decide the works from 75 to 60 %, in order to avoid the blocking minority. The Co-ownership Act has remained a federal jurisdiction, and is included in the Government Agreement, as an evaluation of it is planned. Minister, are you aware of the union's demands? Have you ever met with interlocutors and stakeholders to assess the extent of the problem raised? Is it planned, in the short to medium term, to review the 2010 law on condominiums, which seems to have already reached its limits? The same question may be asked with regard to the mortgage law.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u48	Mr President, dear colleague, it is clear that the government agreement must be implemented with regard to the revision of the law of 2 June 2010 on co-ownership. In my November 2015 political note, I announced this revision. I have received from my office representatives of the National Union of Owners and Co-owners. But a large number of aspirations and suggestions from other actors in the field were also transmitted. Here I am thinking in particular of IPC Vlaanderen. A bill on misconduct or other embezzlement by trustees has recently been put on the agenda of the Justice Committee. My strategic cell has received as many actors as possible. It has listened to their proposals as well as those of my administration in order to check whether certain purely technical improvements could be incorporated into future legislation. In September, I sent a letter to the NCPS to take stock of the situation. After consultation with various actors, including notaries, it turns out that it is necessary to re-evaluate, with the trade unions, including the one you mentioned, the proposals they have made and which are not purely technical. In my view, it is important that the evaluation of the law on co-ownership be carried out in a coherent manner, in consultation with all actors in the sector. I understand their concerns. I will also set up a working group in the spring of this year, and I will invite all the actors concerned to participate, on the basis of the preparatory work we have collected. The task of this group will be to draw up a list of all remaining problems and to formulate proposals for improvement. On this basis, I will, if necessary, take a legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u49	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. It is important to look at this problem since the latter concerns one in three inhabitants in Belgium. According to the Reform Movement, there is therefore an urgent need to legislate on this issue. We should not end up with condominiums in the same situation as Brussels tunnels. Indeed, for lack of initiative and maintenance of the latter, today we find ourselves in a catastrophic situation. This issue is not just about the owners. It also concerns tenants, since tenants often contribute in part to the costs of their buildings. As you have said, the problem must be dealt with before it gets worse, especially as there is a real impoverishment of condominiums as the owners are facing increasing difficulties. In any case, minister, you should know that the MR Group will be particularly vigilant and will follow up on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u50	Mr. Speaker, Madam Minister, I do not claim that the government agreement is my bedside book, but I appreciate returning to it. It clearly states that "a solution will be sought for the recognition of osteopaths and chiropractors" and that "the law of 29 April 1999 on non-conventional practices will be evaluated". I wanted to take stock of this case with you, Madam Minister. I think that we will also come back to this in committee and in this House. Has your firm ever started working on this recognition of osteopaths? Have you been able to consult the area? According to what timing is your calendar organized? Are you going to move quickly on this issue or are you going to give yourself some time? Is it correct that the requirement for a medical prescription would be reviewed by your firm? Have you been able to observe their status in other Member States of the European Union and how it was organised? I would like to make two points in this regard. You know, like me, that the profession of general practitioner has a shortage. This is the combatant's journey for some citizens who want to get an appointment with a practitioner. In this case, mandatory prescription may give him much more work. Moreover, which says "medical prescription" says "reimbursement". With regard to the social security budget, what is your position?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u51	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, I am at least as attentive to the government agreement as Mrs. Cassart. We are here to monitor the implementation of a government agreement. Moreover, I am often surprised at the decisions taken on the finances of our citizens, particularly in the field of health care, which are not included in the government agreement. But that's another story! As far as osteopathy is concerned, I am not going to go back to history, since all this goes back to the 1999 law which Parliament approved and which concerned homeopathy, osteopathy, chiropraxia and acupuncture. We know that many discussions have been initiated under the responsibility of Mrs Onkelinx, when she was Minister of Health, to prepare with Parliament the decrees that allowed the implementation of this law for homeopathy. It was settled! You also know, for your opposition, that a lot of work has been done on osteopathy and that, after many discussions, the Commission has not reached an agreement, since you already put on the table your will to ensure that a patient, who wanted to speak to an osteopath, first had to go through the generalist box. Therefore, Madam Minister, I am not surprised by the news that appeared in the press and that was echoed by the very expression of your spokesman. I am not surprised either to hear that you want to subject the osteopathy sessions to medical prescription today and I am not surprised either that you finally wanted to sweep with a back of your hand what was undertaken under the previous legislature. In this respect, it is recurrent and damaging! Do you intend to make an amendment to the Colla Act and what fundamental amendment? Do you confirm in Parliament that you do not want to recognize osteopathy as a first-line practice? My excellent colleague pointed out this: going to the osteopath, having an appointment, paying, that's one thing; having an appointment with a generalist (in rural areas, it's even more complicated) and paying a second time is something else! This undermines the ability to be cared for, to receive quality care within a reasonable period of time, and it also undermines the portfolio of our fellow citizens. If royal decrees are drafted, will you, as in recent years, welcome parliamentarians to participate in the democratic debate on the matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u52	Colleagues, I have evaluated the Act of 29 April 1999 on unconventional practices, known as the Colla Act, in line with the government agreement. This provides a solution for the recognition of osteopaths and chiropractors for what the Federal Centre of Expertise considers to be evidence-based medicine. On the basis of this assessment and the Centre's report, we will review the 1999 law on the basis of the following principles: patient safety and quality of care, which remains the highest priority; the increasing importance of osteopathy and chiropractic as complementary practices; evidence-based practice, which is at the centre of my policy and the ongoing reforms. On this point, the KCE report states that "osteopathy is a valid alternative to conventional therapies for the treatment of back pain (some back pain) and cervical pain. However, there is no scientific basis for giving osteopaths or chiropractors a different responsibility than that accorded to physiotherapists." All this means that my reform provides for the recognition of osteopathy and chiropractic, but the doctor remains the only one who can make a diagnosis. In analogy with physiotherapists, I plan a long-term prescription specific to the pathology diagnosed by the doctor. We presented this for the first time to the various parties concerned. I intend to consult them again once the texts are ready, but of course I will also present the matter to the government and Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u53	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response. You had a consultation with the sector. Of course, it's important. I would like to draw your attention to the Colla Act of 29 April 1999 on unconventional practices, which you have already assessed. Section 9 of the Act already provides that a practitioner must ask his or her patient to produce a medical report prior to any intervention. I also stress the satisfaction of patients with osteopathy. So far, few disasters have occurred. I therefore think that it is high time to consult the sector. We will talk about this again to both Parliament and the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u54	Madam Minister, you are merely confirming the information that we have been able to read in the press. I'm sorry. You have assessed and committed yourself to reviewing the system in a way that does not suit us, because it fundamentally undermines the very essence of the commitments we made in our previous discussions. You've been working together with the sector. However, I have seen the sector express itself on many occasions in the media in recent days. He doesn't look very excited about your proposal. That's the least we can say. I therefore consider this unacceptable. It's a step backwards. The corporatist considerations seem to prevail over the general interest, which I particularly regret. It will in any case be a waste of time and money for patients. I am pleased to see how the impact of these measures on our social security will be assessed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u55	Mr Secretary of State, as a result of the refugee crisis, 45 000 people in our country applied for asylum last year. It is very important for them and for policy makers to provide an answer to the question of whether or not they can stay in our country within a reasonable time. This is also necessary if we are to manage the reception system properly. Timely decisions will ensure sufficient outflow from the reception centres so that the places can be taken by new asylum seekers and that new places do not always have to be created. At the beginning of the asylum crisis, the government decided to release additional staff in order to manage the huge numbers of files. For example, about 300 staff have been added to the various asylum authorities. The government agreement states that asylum applications must be dealt with within a reasonable period of time, set at six months. However, there is a great deal of concern in the field at the reception centres, because few asylum seekers pass through. In some asylum centres, even since September, there has been hardly any emigration. Mr Secretary of State, I have the following questions. What is currently the average lead time for asylum procedures, including the appeal procedure? Have all the measures taken been implemented? If so, what are the results? Finally, what will you do to ensure that the delay is eliminated and that the procedures are dealt with within a period of six months, as agreed in the government agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u56	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, we have already had a lot of debate in committee on the current asylum and immigration crisis, which is, as has been pointed out, unprecedented. However, I would like to point out that this government is working. This is reflected in the opening of additional places, a distribution plan, the commitment of staff, the management of the reception of asylum seekers. Secretary of State, I would like to take stock with you today. Ms Lanjri has already asked a number of questions. We spoke in the Committee on Commitments. Are they effective? A reinforcement was expected at Fedasil, the Foreign Office, CGRA. It's not nothing. Has everything been put in place? What of 2016 if this crisis continues? Have you planned new commitments? If these commitments are effective, is the case processing up to date? You had six months. Is he well respected?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u57	Figures related to workload were requested. I'll try to paint the picture of the workload right now. The Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless has 13 655 pending files; 4 500 is considered a normal working stock. So there is a backlog of 9 155 files. On 28 August the government decided to recruit additional staff, both for the asylum service of the Commissioner for Refugees and the Stateless as well as for the Office for Foreign Affairs. There will be 120 additional staff for the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless, 118 of whom have been recruited, two more to go. Of the 89 additional staff members in the Foreign Affairs Office, 81 were recruited, 8 to go. We are moving forward with the commitment made by the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless of 2 500 decisions per month. Moreover, in the short month of February there were almost 2 000 decisions, the first time we scored so high. Then there was a question as to whether it was open-ended contracts or fixed-term contracts. In the government it was agreed that level A and level B are contracts of indefinite duration, so that we can also find them on the labour market, and that level C and level D are contracts of fixed duration of at least one year or until the end of 2016; if they were already recruited last year, it is a number of months longer. Mrs Lanjri, most of the files still have a lead time of less than six months. We have not been able to calculate the average lead time so quickly, but I will certainly deliver it to you. However, the huge influx of the last few months for Afghanistan, Iraq and Syria does not allow us to reach the six-month lead time. That is why we have recruited additional staff. The number of decisions per month needs to be increased as a matter of urgency. More Syrian cases are currently being decided on than in Iraqi and Afghan files. That is a decision of the Commissioner-General, which I will certainly talk to him about. Ms. Cassart-Mailleux, Fedasil hired an additional 444 people between July 1 and December 31, 2015. Additional staff are constantly engaged as new reception facilities are opened. Their number is proportional to the reception capacity and target groups of the new reception facilities. For the moment, recruitments are being organized within Fedasil for the reception centres of Overijse, Lubbeek, Lommel, Zaventem and Saint-Hubert. In addition, headquarters services are being strengthened. Fedasil does not have any statistics on the commitments that have taken place within the host structures managed by its partners. It is clear that hundreds of people have been hired. Finally, Ms Lanjri, as regards the degree of recognition for important nationalities, in 2015, the CGVS, in 60% of the decisions on the substance, stated that the asylum seeker needed effective protection. The high number of recognition decisions can be explained by the fact that most asylum seekers in Belgium come from countries where there is effective war and conflict, unlike in the past, when most of them came from the Western Balkans. The CGVS granted protection status to almost every Syrian, 98 %, in 2015. In 2015, 77 percent of Afghans received protection status and 72 percent of Iraqis. In 2016, there is a similar trend. In February, a final decision was taken in 58 %. Again, 98 percent of Syrians are recognised as against 53 percent of Afghans and 51 percent of Iraqis. We are in the process of trying to increase the number of decisions taken by the Commissioner-General. There was also a delay in the Foreign Office, but now we even measure 4 500 flows per month. So we are reducing the backlog, also thanks to the fact that the influx has been declining for a few weeks now. Whether it is necessary to recruit additional staff will be decided by the nuclear cabinet and the government in the budget debate. There are a number of questions. We'll look into that. In any case, the promised staff are almost all there now. This takes some time, for example because employees have to resign.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u58	Mr Secretary of State, of course we understand the asylum services, which are faced with a huge workload as a result of the crisis, but precisely that is why the government has recruited additional staff to ensure that the deadline set in the government agreement is reached on an average of six months, including the appeal procedure. I'm glad you're usually on that term. However, you do not have all the figures yet. Well, if the lead time in, for example, 20% of the files does not last six months but one year, the average will rise again quickly. As soon as you've been able to calculate it, I'd like to get the average. I hope that's under six months. I would urge that this deadline be respected more or less for everyone, for every nationality. I understand that the recognition rate for Syrians is higher than for other nationalities. That in itself has nothing to do with the treatment period. Asylum seekers with a nationality for whom the recognition rate is lower should also be able to receive a reply within six months. This is important for those who are rejected and have to leave the country. This is also important for those who are recognised and can start their integration. An additional advantage, as you know better than anyone, is that we ensure that places are made available to other asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u59	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. Yes, this government is working hard. We had a first committee last year in August on the debate on this asylum crisis. A lot has already been done. The commitment is effective. As Ms Lanjri said, the processing of cases is important, as is the six-month period for asylum seekers to check whether they are accepted or whether they have to take steps to return to their country. It is necessary to continue, evaluate and see the budget available to consider the new commitment. But the aim is to carry out an evaluation, to meet deadlines and to continue the work in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u60	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u61	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Franky Demon, rapporteur, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u62	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day we are voting on the bill containing various provisions of the Interior and the Integrated Police. In general, the MR Group fully endorses the draft law in that it aims to meet operational police needs: administrative measures to facilitate the execution of judicial missions, a more refined recruitment process, the granting of the competence of judicial police officer auxiliary to the King's Prosecutor to certain police inspectors. These are significant and expected advances within the police force. Stimulating judicial operationality and increasing flexibility in staff engagement are goals that our group supports. The project also aims to improve and clarify certain shaded areas. By way of example, and as I mentioned during the debates in committee, the law on the police function is finally adapted in order to allow the police services to check the identity of a person who has committed an act punishable by an administrative penalty. There was a legal gap in this area. In fact, it was paradoxical because, unlike the police officers, the guards of the peace had legal authorization to carry out these identity checks. I would also like to stress the importance of working with trade unions. Some aspects of the consultation are reflected in the project, and this is of paramount importance to the MR group. Mr. Chair, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, our group will support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u63	Mr President, this draft provides for a number of provisions to align police reality with a number of changes that had become necessary and also to simplify here and there. Let me give you a few examples of these simplifications. Provisions on military courts which were no longer relevant to the police were amended. There are also a number of provisions on the test bench, where certain ammunition should no longer be offered. Of course, a number of provisions also make adjustments to the Staff Regulations. I am referring here to a solution for the CALog staff, who were recruited in the framework of subsidised contractual employment, a statute which no longer exists. However, a solution is provided to keep those concerned in service. There will also be an additional check for recruitment of CALog staff, which is certainly not an unnecessary luxury in times of terror. Thus we know who we employ. There are also some technical adaptations for the combination of the CICs and the AIKS, which are now referred to under the legal arrondissements of SICA. There was also a need to adapt this. There will also be a solution for pensions, with a technical adjustment to the Pension Fund. The law on the police office is also aligned with today's terrorist threat. It is important that adjustments ensure that the security of the State is no longer entrusted with tasks of administrative police, but that it becomes a pure intelligence and security service. It also provides for an administratively responsible for the maritime police in West Flanders, namely the governor. As Mr Pivin has pointed out, there is also an adjustment for cooperation, among other things, so that the police can act immediately in urgent cases. We also welcome a number of measures to better protect police officers and assist them in identifying them. I'm not talking about fingerprints in that connection. This is about something else. An important adjustment is also a change in legal aid. So far, everyone could get some kind of legal aid. However, if it were to be challenged against its own employer, it would no longer be possible to do so. That doesn't make any sense, by the way. If two staff were to sue against each other, legal aid would also be abolished, as this would jeopardise the principle of the neutrality and impartiality of the employer. Finally, we are pleased that it was a proposal of my own that the proposal on mergers and mergers of police zones should be included in the draft. Municipalities can therefore voluntarily leave their police zone, provided, of course, that they join a new police zone within the same judicial district. A number of technical provisions were also included in order to regulate the transfer of personnel, equipment and goods in an appropriate manner. We are in favour of this draft law, which is in line with the current social reality. We shall therefore support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u64	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the project we are debating today contains positive points. I say this from the outset because the role of the opposition is not to criticize. I note that you are announcing an agreement for the transfer of the Personality Protection Officers, so far grouped within the State Security, to the Integrated Police. You also confirm that this agreement will enter into force on 1 April. It's a reason for satisfaction. Other elements arouse more mixed feelings. I'll raise two. The first is the question of intervention numbers. In certain circumstances, police officers are required to replace their identification badge with such a number. We are pleased that the proposed measure aims to simplify the process in case of problems. I would point out that my group has always been concerned about the protection of the privacy of the police and the possibility of democratic citizen control over the way the missions are carried out. However, Minister, we remain unclear as to the guarantees that this number is clearly legible in various places in the uniform of the officers in intervention. I have no doubt that you will improve the proposal and its application. In another register, there are provisions for screening candidates in police functions. Indeed, there is a clear understanding of the value of such measures, and more specifically in the current context of the fight against terrorism. But one may wonder if the measure is going a little too far. Can a candidate be refused entry for facts for which he or she is not responsible? Having a brother or cousin who makes a mistake, is it an element playing against a candidate, while his or her very behaviour is irreproachable? We ask you to be extremely vigilant, but in both directions, of the procedure which must therefore be subject to serious scrutiny. Finally, there are measures that do not suit us or that seem to us to be overstated. This is the case with your decision to postpone the date on which the BNG will have to be adapted and incorporate new data on judicial follow-up. It is an important tool, even essential, for proper police work. And you reject the improvement because the austerity imposed on the services does not allow them to fulfill this mission. This shows the limits of your policy with regard to the government's fiscal policy. This is also the case with the provision that exempts local police from informing their political authority prior to the dispersal of a rally deemed threatening. We have had a debate in committee on this. I have not been convinced, and I have told you, but we will see what you can answer in plenary. We must not forget, and as you recall, you know the function of burger in your personal capacity, that it is the mayors who are responsible for the operations of the local police. Is the minor correction or presented as such, which we are debating, not likely to empower the local police in relation to the authority of the mayor in certain circumstances? We do not agree with that interpretation. We also have some concerns about measures that may appear to be community-based – I dare the word. Maybe you'll mislead me. I also spoke in committee about the decision to remove the task of testing ammunition from police weapons from the Liège Test Bank. I have made remarks about the department on which this Bench depends. This after your Justice colleague decided to turn away from our city's DNA analysis centre to prefer a German operator. We have the same fear and the same analysis with regard to the provision for the re-memberment of police areas in the Brussels-Capital region, which will actually increase the number of Dutch-speaking zonal advisers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u65	Mr Demeyer, you have indeed made a comment in committee and raised some sort of incident of competence. You said that the test bench is the responsibility of the Minister of Economics. That is true, but not only under the competence of the Minister of Economy, but also the Minister of Justice. However, I do not see the relevance of this to the treatment of the present draft. After all, whether it is the Department of Economy, Justice or another department, the draft has been discussed by the government. So I do not see the relevance of your comment, whether it should be that you know something that we do not know.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u66	I do not have much illusions about taking into account the remarks I made in committee, particularly on the basis of the experience I gained under the former government. At the time, the Minister of Economy had put forward a number of proposals. But it is my duty to remind the plenary of what I said in committee. The Liège Arms Test Bank has a recognized capacity and know-how in this area. In committee, I explained the link between weapons testing and ammunition testing. I was still, for fifteen years, at the head of the Arms Test Bank. I explained how this could be dangerous for police forces and civilians using weapons and ammunition tested there. I said it in committee. I repeat this in plenary. The majority takes responsibility. I'll give you an appointment in a while to do an analysis of the situation. Finally, you're right. Whether it is at the level of the Economy, the Interior, Justice or any other department, what counts is the result. On this point, I can agree with you. But on the merits, my group disagrees. We will see what will happen in terms of security and development in other services. We are tabling four amendments. Let us know, Mr Minister, that we will approve the overall text only if our amendments are voted on. For the rest, I do not agree with the text which states that the headquarters of the judicial police may leave the centre of the district. Why? Because the centre of the district is the city centre and it is important to have a judicial presence where there is the most population. I know the debate on this. It took place under the former government, but also under that government. Your text provides that the headquarters of the judicial police can be located anywhere in the district. This may facilitate mobility, I agree with you, but I consider it to be a bad policy for police presence. Mr. President, I'm done. We will be paying attention after the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this legislative proposal with various provisions can provide a quick solution to a number of problems. For example, our group welcomes the measures taken to establish police zones. The text makes it clear that the possible merger of the Brussels police zones is also being taken into account. We welcome the fact that this is being made possible. In fact, this proposal does not prevent the consideration of our proposal for the merger of the six Brussels police zones in the temporary anti-terrorist committee. What concerns us, however, is the proposed regulation on the examination of the impeccable behaviour of candidates in recruitment laid down in Article 63 of this draft law. It is understandable that in times of radicalisation some attention is needed for possible links with or infiltration from criminal or extremist environments. It is important to obtain all possible information about this from the Security of the State or from the OCAD. At the same time, caution should be exercised if one also wishes to take into account mere indications, without linking them to criminal offences or convictions. It follows, among other things, that the rules on this need to be very precise. In the past, critical comments have already been made on the drawing up of lists of potentially dangerous persons. We also have a comment on Article 74. That article refers to the decision of certain insurance companies to exclude persons participating in foreign service contracts from the guarantees in their life insurance. In this article, the government assumes the consequences of this attitude. It seems to us very logical that we should first draw the attention of insurance companies to their responsibilities. The government should first make efforts to stop such malpractices. Finally, I would like to point out that Article 84 of the original draft law was that Article 83 of the Treaty provides for an extension of certain deadlines for implementation. Invoking the argument of savings to postpone these deadlines seems to me to be of little relevance, especially since the government itself has decided on the cuts. This is an example of policy that is watered down under pressure from governments' savings.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your input. I believe that all the points raised here have been dealt with in detail in committee. I therefore refer to the committee report. A number of points have been raised, which I have said will certainly be taken into account in the implementation of the law. This is the case, among other things, with regard to the point raised by Mr Top in relation to insurance companies. Mr Top, I think you are right to point out that we are at risk. The discussions with the insurance companies will take place. Mr Demeyer, for lack of time, I cannot comment on your remarks. Mr President, I therefore refer to the committee's report for my replies to the various comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u69	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u70	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1644/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1644/4) The draft law contains 94 articles. The bill has 94 articles. * * * * * * * Amendments tabled: Amendments tabled:
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u71	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u72	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Rules 2, 29, 38, 84. Article adopted by article: Articles 1, 3 to 28, 30 to 37, 39 to 83, 85 to 94.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u73	******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u74	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 904: Richard Miller, Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Nele Lijnen, Tim Vandenput - 234: Özlem Özen, Frédéric Daerden, Gwenaëlle Grovonius, Philippe Blanchart, Stéphane Crusnière - 899: Benoit Hellings, Wouter De Vriendt, Jean-Marc Nollet, Anne Dedry, Marcel Cheron, Kristof Calvo, Stefaan Van Hecke, Evita Willaert, Georges Gilkinet - 1012: Raoul Hedebouw, Marco Van Hees - 1062: Dirk Van der Maelen, Philippe Blanchart, Fatma Pehlivan, Gwenaëlle Grovonius, Maya Detiège, Monica De Coninck, Stéphane Crusnière, Karin Jiroflée - 836: Stéphane Crusnière, Gwenaëlle Grovonius, Laurette Onkelinx, Philippe Blanchart, Dirk Van der Maelen - 1137: Raoul Hedebouw, Marco Van Hees - 1597: Benoit Hellings, Wouter De Vriendt. I would point out to you that the committee's proposal No. 904 adopted and proposes to reject the 7 other proposals. I would point out that the committee has adopted proposal No 904 and proposes that the other seven proposals be rejected. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these eight motions for resolutions. I propose that you devote one discussion to these eight motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u75	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (904/7) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (904/7) The title was changed by the Commission to "Proposal for a Resolution on the negotiation and conclusion of a Trade Agreement between the European Union and the United States (TTIP). The title has been amended by the Committee on the Proposal for a Resolution on the negotiation and conclusion of a Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) trade agreement between the European Union and the United States. The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u76	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to thank the services for the excellence of their work throughout our activities, whether at the hearings we held during 2015 or during the debates on the many motions for resolutions tabled by each of the groups on this important issue of trade agreements in general and TTIP in particular. Indeed, while my rapporteur's work concerns only the discussions we have had on the motions for resolutions, it is also important to recall that these discussions themselves were based on numerous hearings in March, April, May and December 2015. For further details on these hearings, I refer you to the specific report of my colleagues Hellings and Tim Vandenput. However, I would like to point out that in the course of these discussions we were able to hear a wide range of experts and representatives from all the points of view with which we exchanged views: the minister himself, academics, representatives of the ILO, Belgian diplomats, the CNCD, trade unionists, business leaders, consumer representatives, officials of the American Chamber of Commerce in Europe and the European Commissioner in charge of the matter. Undoubtedly, this has provided the best basis for our reflections in the context of the second round, namely the tabling and consideration of motions for resolutions on the subject. This discussion on the various motions for resolutions required no less than three meetings of the Committee on External Relations (on 19 January, 3 and 16 February). Several texts, dealing with different subjects but brought together within this theme "trade agreements", have been tabled by various Members. As many as five texts dealt with TTIP, which is, of course, the main issue in our discussions today, but also on TiSA and two on CETA. In addition, many amendments, some of which are very extensive, have been tabled on several of these texts. After the general presentations by each of the authors of the various texts, and after in-depth and sometimes lively discussions, the committee decided to adopt as the basic text on TTIP, Resolution No. 904, supported after amendment by all the majority groups. It is therefore the only text which has been approved by the committee and which is now put to the vote by the plenary. Furthermore, I can only note that none of the amendments tabled by the members of the opposition have been approved in committee. The other texts, whether on TTIP, TiSA or CETA, were all rejected in committee. If they are on the agenda of our plenary meeting today, it is at the request of their authors and on the basis of Rule 88 of our Rules of Procedure. Mr President, I would like to speak on behalf of my group.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u77	Please.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u78	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an important moment in this Parliament. TTIP poses a serious threat to the political construction of Europe and its strategic autonomy, without even providing a reasonable certainty of growth and job creation for our people. By confronting the expected loss of sovereignty and the expected marginal growth of the TTIP, it can be said that Europe is preparing to trade its prom dress against rags. This is a warning to all the elected representatives that we are, when we have to grant democratic sovereignty to bureaucratic apparatus that is more vulnerable to pressure from lobbies and global firms than to the assembly of elected representatives that we form. The resolution of the majority itself leaves no doubt about that. It is punctuated with recommendations to the government that clearly reflect its reluctance and apprehension. The MR, in particular, hides his unease and fears a lot in the TTIP for his electorate, including employers of SMEs, farmers and liberal professions. He shows his concern for them, but he will still vote for TTIP, which, for the vast majority of our people, is more a threat of deterioration of their income and employment than the opportunity normally associated with trade liberalization. TTIP, too obvious, is a treaty that US multinationals impose on Europe. Only the shareholders of these global companies who can expect more capital gains and dividends are delighted. This is what the TTIP really is, says most seriously: loss of European sovereignty on the one hand and uneven distribution of the benefits expected on the other. The majority understood it! The majority know that! However, it is caught up, on the one hand, in the dynamics of negotiation and, on the other, it adheres to a dogmatic and non-practical view of free trade. It does not realize that it is sacrificing the common good for the benefit of a small minority and more seriously, politics to market forces and citizens to shareholders. Let us accept instead that by launching the negotiation of the TTIP on 14 June 2014 by consensus, the European Council has made a mistake and that it is necessary to stop to take stock and look for an alternative to the TTIP. Let us be clear: TTIP is not just a trade treaty, similar to the 400 existing bilateral agreements. His spiritual father, Karel De Gucht, called it a transatlantic internal market, which is anything other than a free trade area. A free trade area is aimed exclusively at eliminating tariffs and quotas between partners and opening up services and public procurement, which is also addressed by the TTIP. But an internal market goes much further: it intends to harmonise standards and standards, it also aims to lay down new rules on competition, intellectual property and investment. The aim is to establish an arbitral tribunal, open only to foreign companies for actions against States and, above all, a Regulatory Cooperation Council which, once national legislation is harmonized, will ensure that no unilateral legislative initiative breaks the unity of the market. That's what TTIP is! Obviously, with TTIP, we are no longer in trade policy but in colegislation with the United States. Mr. De Gucht was right, it is a transatlantic internal market, in which the EU de facto loses its legislative autonomy and in which it remains exposed to the practices of extraterritoriality in the US in terms of economic sanctions, taxation of profits, anti-corruption legislation, respect for privacy, as set out by the NSA. How can we forget this when we talk about TTIP, since these listenings by the allied authorities of the United States are the most visible expression of the very particular regal power of the United States, that of a hegemonic power? I come to the three objections I have to the TTIP, which, in my view, represents a real danger for Europe. First, this will result in weak growth and a threat to our model. The expected growth will be marginal while the effect on net job creation or destruction is unknown. Current econometric models, in the opinion of economists themselves, cannot reasonably quantify the impact of TTIP. The Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR), a study office selected by the Commission, predicts an annual growth of 0.5% of GDP after 10 years if the negotiation is 100% successful, but a study by Tufts University, equally credible, speaks for Europe of the destruction of several hundred thousand jobs, a bleed in other words. In the absence of a reliable quantitative assessment, the two partners with comparable GDPs, whose markets involve respectively 320 and 500 million consumers, have already exhausted the economies of scale available to them. Adding the two markets will, of course, reduce the costs of certification and product testing by avoiding duplication, but will not create productivity gains. The sectors in which harmonisation liberalisation will take place are dominated by large companies. In these advanced technology activities, large American firms win. Think about financial services and the digital sector. Our companies, dispersed and smaller, will find it difficult to cope with a new liberalization shock in the face of a resolutely more advanced competitor. In this respect, the TTIP would ring the bell of a reindustrialization of Europe from the top, i.e. in state-of-the-art technologies, in particular digital technology, financial services, energy and defence industries. With this agreement, growth will not only be weak, but concentrated because of the advantageous industrial specialization of a core of countries around Germany. This will contribute to widening the gap between the heart and periphery of the Eurozone. The growing difference between states is precisely the poison that undermines the health of the Eurozone and ultimately condemns it if it is not addressed. This growth would be unequal, benefiting oligopolistic firms, which are most often American, more than our SMEs or workers. They will be exposed to competition from 24 U.S. states in which trade unions are absent. This last aspect highlights one of the three political problems that TTIP raises. Firstly, the question of Europe's political sovereignty over its internal market and its integration process. Secondly, the loss of Europe's strategic autonomy and, finally, the exposure of the European model to the pressure of an American model that is more unequal and therefore more violent. A more direct communication between the US and European labour markets through the arbitration of global firms is the main channel of this transmission of this war of models whose transatlantic partnership will be the cause and the place. But the European model of society goes beyond the social model. It encompasses Europe's specific collective values and preferences in the fields of health, the environment, consumer and saver protection, culture and the common denominator of which is the precautionary principle which leads us to prefer ex ante regulation rather than ex post class actions, prevention by law rather than compensation by the courts. The Commission assures us that the level of protection will never be lowered and that harmonisation will therefore be done upwards. But who, if not the US courts, will define a posteriori which US or European measures constitute the highest level of precaution? This simple example illustrates the danger of building an internal market on different jurisdictional systems. We are opening a Pandora's box that can be a source of tension between Americans and Europeans and, paradoxically, decrease rather than increase the necessary cohesion within the Atlantic Alliance. Those who, like me, think that the market is first and foremost an institutional fact governed by rules and institutions naturally worry about any caesure between the two. The coherence of an economic system and its social model are poorly accommodated by this dichotomy between the transatlantic internal market and autonomous political systems on both sides of the ocean. The simple idea of setting up a private arbitration tribunal to bypass official European and American courts is a profound distortion in terms of the equality of all before the law; but it is considered necessary on the grounds that the partners do not trust each other in the objectivity of their respective courts. Do the promoters of the TTIP realize that they have already played the sorcerer apprentices here? My second objection is the asymmetry between a united America and a divided Europe of 28. Let's look at the news. Eurozone flirts with deflation because we are divided on its governance, and in particular on the possibility of establishing a federal budget, a "transfer-Union" financed by a federal tax, for example on carbon or multinationals operating in Europe. These differences between Member States, we see them on the tragic issue of refugees, a real test for the integrity of the Schengen area and for the unity of the European Union itself. But European disagreements do not end there. We have not completed the single market in key sectors dominated by US multinationals: energy, telecommunications, digital, financial services, industry. We have ten currencies where the United States has the dollar, the world currency. Moreover, we do not have in Europe, unlike the United States, an equalization budget to deal with external shocks such as trade liberalization. But the greatest asymmetry is in trade negotiations itself. This is the first time that Europe has concluded a free trade agreement with greater strength than it, and much stronger. In the area of trade, the United States has also taken the initiative of double trade liberalization: on the Pacific side with the TPP, which is concluded and signed, and on the Atlantic side with the TTIP. The aim of these strategies is to make the United States the cornerstone of world trade between East and West. When Europe is negotiating with America today, it is in fact also encountering the mass of the 12 TPP countries, including Japan. I would add to this that Europe is seeking trade negotiations with the United States. She was the one who, in the face of Putin's pressure from Russia in Ukraine and worried about Obama's Asian pivot, called for this commercial partnership with Washington. America, in the alliance with Europe, is seeking the possibility of a technological and normative coalition to impose Western standards and norms on the rest of the world. It is in the function of Europe in the TTIP. The main beneficiaries will be US multinationals. My third objection is of a completely different nature. It easily passes over the heads of our fellow citizens. Yet, for children, it may be the most important. This is the world order, post-globalization. As we know, America is due to its strategic hegemony, threatened by China's rise in power. Washington intends to curb this rise in power while curbing China's growth, which today tows the world economy, in sharp slowdown. This is a complex game, made of commitment and rivalry unique to the China-America relationship. When it is opposed to the TTIP protagonists that this Treaty threatens the foundations of the WTO, the trade pillar of multilateral governance, they argue that the TTIP is moving in the direction of multilateralism, as it will gradually open up, country by country, to other WTO Member States. Each third country will therefore be invited to join the Atlantic coalition, but on the terms of the coalition. It will be agreed that this is a very unilateral way back to multilateralism. Is it in Europe's interest? The fact that this issue is not really debated in European opinion is a sign of collective blindness in the face of the reality of decades to come. In conclusion, the TTIP negotiation has been under way for almost three years. Last week, we were in round 12. The prevailing impression is that of an extreme difficulty, which confirms that this agreement does not go without saying, on both the European and the American sides. Hope, caressed for a moment by Karel De Gucht, to finish by 2014, has of course faded. Even the delay in the end of Obama's term appears illusory. The time has therefore come to take stock and find a better solution for Europe than TTIP. It would add undesirable economic dependence to the necessary strategic independence within the Atlantic Alliance. For the CDH, it must be considered that the conclusion of such a partnership between the United States and Europe is not and should not be a priority in European policy. Indeed, the return to growth and employment in Europe depends first and foremost on the establishment of a sustainable recovery plan at European level. For this to happen, Europe must focus on implementing an overall investment strategy and not on concluding a TTIP whose expected benefits are far from obvious, although they present real dangers. But, more importantly, as Europeans, our efforts must focus not on the conclusion of a trade agreement with the United States, which is contested and questionable, but on the deepening of European integration and the urgent need to formulate optimal responses to the various existential crises which now threaten the European integration as a whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u79	Mr President, I can hear Mrs Matz and always listen to her with interest, whatever she thinks sometimes, but I have the impression that it is "Vanessa in Wonderland". We're building Europe. You have pleaded with great enthusiasm for a strengthening of the European Union. I think we almost all share the same feeling here, but from the moment we want to make a more European Europe, it also means more European parties. At the last congress meeting of your political family, the European People's Party (EPP), in Madrid, there was a plea to speed up negotiations on TTIP. As I know, the President of the European Commission is indeed your party, as is the President of the European Council; your party is the relative majority of the European Parliament, the majority of European Commissioners and ministers of the European Council. You may be inaudible in your own party, but if I hear what you're saying, you're proposing to stop the negotiations. Why don't you make yourself heard more with your fellow believers?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u80	Mr Flahaux, I am accustomed to this kind of intervention which never focuses on substance, even if it is now more courteous than the statements made against us in committee. Since the beginning of my speech, I have been talking about the substance of the case, the consequences that such an agreement could have. Mr. Flahaux, I'll answer you. You would greatly honour the CDH to say that the President of the European Commission and almost all the Commissioners are cdH. They're PPE. We are members of the EPP, but we have two Belgian CDH MEPs who will oppose the TTIP. Teaching us lessons about how weird it is that we don't make ourselves heard anymore is a little ridiculous. You know as we do the power relations in the European political groups. There are two of us, but there are two of us voting against. In Lisbon, Mr Rolin voted against the desire to continue negotiations on the transatlantic partnership. So I have no problem of consistency with that. Whether it is in the communes, in the federated entities, in our assembly, at European Parliament level, the CDH is coherent, with substantive arguments and, above all, not with slogans. In this case, I have always defended slogans saying that we were against the Americans, against liberalism, etc. We are not against these principles. In fact, we have had interesting discussions on these issues, particularly with Mr Miller, as well as on a number of doubts that have arisen. The fact of mentioning the precautions in your resolution, namely that the SME sector must be given due attention, means that you already know that this sector is likely to be hit hard by the conclusion of this Treaty. If the Union of the Middle Classes reacts extremely precisely by criticising this agreement, it is that there is a reason. I wish to remain courteous, as I was in committee, which was not always the case for you. However, I acknowledge that today you were cordial, which is why I answered you with the same cordiality. But I'm going back to the subject we're dealing with. For the Europeans we are, efforts must focus not on the conclusion of a disputed and questionable trade agreement with the United States, but on the deepening of European integration and the urgent need to formulate optimal responses to the various existential crises. In the face of the serious crises that follow (euro, public debt, terrorism, the role of the European Union on the international stage, migrants) and the existential challenges (eurosceptics, Brexit, nationalism, populism, self-retirement), the question that arises above all is what European Union we want tomorrow and how we intend to achieve it. As far as the CDH is concerned, there is no doubt that every effort must be made to give a new impetus as soon as possible and to give concrete impetus to the European project. As the Prime Minister said, Europe must be reenchanted. We must now move from words to deeds. We want a Europe such as Belgium has always defended, namely a Federal Political Union that defends European citizenship, a genuine solidarity between all Europeans, all Member States, and is capable of meeting the challenges of our time. Since it is necessary to acknowledge the refusal of some to go further or even to step back in the field of European integration, Belgium must move forward with those States which really want to do so and work actively towards the creation of a hard core, open to those who wish to do so within the European Union, in order to quickly establish a political union of a federal nature. In short, the European Union must, first and foremost, find answers to its own issues in order to be able to negotiate, then, on an equal footing with the United States. A suspension of negotiations would make it possible to make progress internally and to better judge what is best for Europe in terms of its businesses, consumers and citizens. That is what we strongly plead.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the Committee on External Relations we have seen a whole train of experts and held a whole rist of debates. After all these debates, a whole range of resolutions are before the vote today. It is useful to have this debate. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are going to have a serious debate, you must recognise that the resolution tabled by the majority is a lot. There are concerns and concerns in it that concern you too. Today, by a majority, we want to present a resolution calling on the government to take the necessary initiatives at European and national level to conduct these TTIP negotiations and to conclude them before the end of 2016. We think this is important, we think the treaty is important, but we also consider the start-up, the negotiations that must lead to that treaty to be equally important. What's on the move isn't less. As Mr Matz said, it is a hugely ambitious treaty, a free trade agreement between the two largest trading blocs in the world. It would be the largest bilateral trade agreement ever for Europe. We support these negotiations, as I said, because free trade creates prosperity, because costs for businesses are reduced, because investments are attracted and jobs are created. The economy and its citizens will benefit from this. We must look at the European market. In a not so far past, it didn't exist. Just look at the benefits that this single European market offers to the Member States today. It is important for Europe. It is also an important geopolitical and economic treaty for the European Union, as it strengthens relations with the United States. It is a new partnership that means a long-term strategic alliance between the US and Europe. The European Commission expects an increase in growth of 120 billion for the EU alone. We can never predict exactly the future up to the euro. There are indeed several studies, but we assume that this means a huge advantage, that creating free trade leads to jobs. Moreover, many of these jobs in Europe today also depend on the relationship with the United States. A successful transatlantic partnership for trade and investment is a huge potential. Belgium and not least Flanders have much to gain from a well-negotiated TTIP agreement. It is a win-win situation for consumers and businesses. Flanders has an open economy and is dependent on foreign trade. We need an agreement that includes agreements, market access and regulation on non-tariff barriers. Bagger companies such as Jan De Zero and DEME cannot now operate within the United States due to the obstacles behind the border. TTIP also offers opportunities for the Flemish ports, petrochemicals and pharmaceutical sectors. Colleagues, the same applies to the many SMEs. The costs and the threshold for starting an export adventure are relatively higher for them than for large companies. They can also benefit indirectly as a supplier to large companies surfing that export wave to the United States. Flanders is an SME region and we welcome the fact that a specific SME chapter will be included in this TTIP Treaty. Consumers themselves are also making progress because the elimination of import tariffs on American products will result in a fall in prices. TTIP provides more purchasing power through economic growth and a decrease in prices. So we absolutely want to push these negotiations in the back. There are also many challenges. This agreement has many assets, but there are also concerns. However, let us not get rid of this debate in fear-making or mood-making. I just heard that. By the way, we are not voting on the TTIP agreement today. Just so we're clear, there isn't. We are voting today on the resolutions before us. We are asking how we are going to proceed in these negotiations and what we want to highlight.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u82	Mr Luykx, I heard you. You mentioned two Belgian companies, Flemish in this case, which could be interested in negotiating and then signing a possible transatlantic treaty. You have quoted De Nul et DEME. I congratulate you on this transparency. Indeed, de facto, port enterprises are a series of companies that will be able to potentially benefit from the opening or the potential liberalisation of American ports, today military fields. You just said it's interesting for these companies. But is this interesting for the employees of these companies? Will De Nul or DEME win contracts in the United States create jobs in Antwerp, Flanders and Belgium in general? No, it's going to create revenue. This will create dividends for the shareholders of these two multinational companies, whose competence and value I recognize. But what the European Union, what the Flemish Region, what Belgium needs, is jobs, not wealth creation. The workers who will be engaged on any contracts De Nul and DEME will benefit in the United States will not be Belgian. Some engineers, probably! A few salesmen, probably! The shareholders, yes! This is the method of TTIP! In itself, the opening of markets does not bring local jobs in Europe, Belgium and, as far as you are concerned, Flanders. In addition, we started in 2013, through a mandate granted by the Di Rupo government at the time, in negotiations on the TTIP without knowing a study carried out in Belgium by a body empowered to do so, either the Office of the Plan or the SPF Economy, a study that could determine the impact of a possible TTIP on our economy. I can hear your argument. He is sincere about these two companies, but he does not create the jobs Belgium and the Flemish Region need and this is not validated by a serious study. We are still waiting for the study of the SPF Economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u83	I have two things to say. Firstly, in our motion for a resolution, which you may have read thoroughly, we also call for corrective action if jobs are compromised. We have dealt with this aspect in the proposal for a resolution by the majority, on which you will be able to vote later. Secondly, there are indeed a lot of studies. A very recent study by the World Trade Institute says that Belgium, not only Flanders, will benefit most from TTIP. We are moving towards GDP growth of 1.1 percent, wages are rising, including those of the workers, and consumers are benefiting from falling consumer prices. In my introduction, I said that I do not have a glass ball, so we cannot predict the effects of TTIP up to the euro. However, we have included a correction in the motion for a resolution to take account of your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u84	Mr President, as always, we are arguing on the pretext that some studies say that this will bring about growth, jobs, wages, while other economists, both on the left and on the right, say the opposite. I would point out that in Belgium, a whole series of economists, who are certainly not affiliated with the PS, say that this is likely to be catastrophic for a country like ours. I am thinking in particular of Mr de Callataÿ, who recently said that this would bring us nothing good. But, above all, we still have reference points with other treaties that have been made in the same vein as this one. I am thinking, for example, of the NAFTA Treaty, which, too, prior to its conclusion, was supposedly conducive to growth, jobs and well-being for workers. This Treaty has been concluded between Canada, the United States and Mexico, and it is now possible to assess its concrete impact, far from the promises made. I would point out that the U.S. trade balance with Mexico has deteriorated completely, that hundreds of thousands of jobs have been lost in the U.S., while, of course, they have re-created other jobs but at a much lower wage than the one valued in pre-employment. In Mexico, yes, there has been an increase in employment but, at the wage level, consumer goods have increased so much in terms of cost that, in comparison, wages have decreased. So here's a pre-study that said it was going to be "sweet," as you said. In fact, in any case in terms of wages and the number of jobs, this has been a disaster.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u85	Mrs Onkelinx, your assessment is different from ours, but also different from that of your colleague Magnette. After Mrs Malmström's visit to the Walloon Parliament, he was remarkably positive. Allow me to refer to his words. He was satisfied, among other things, with the removal of the original ISDS arbitrage system, and urged everyone to abandon all populist and anti-American doubts in order to safeguard the close links between the Walloon economy and the US economy. Like Mr Magnette, we have a number of concerns. We are also expressing this. Mr Magnette expressed those concerns because he said he did not want to deceive anyone. I repeat that, in the end, we are talking about an assessment of both studies for and against the fact that the Free Trade Agreement will provide jobs. I'm quite convinced of that. Not only am I convinced of that, because many experts are in favour. There are indeed sectors that we need to follow closely. That is also in the proposal for a resolution by the majority. Corrections may be needed, but overall the treaty will provide more jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u86	You mentioned Mr. Magnette. I would just like to enlighten you on this and take the opportunity to say something official and important. First, Mr. Magnette is a gallant and courteous person. He certainly had to say that he had been happy with the dialogue. For the rest, since you are talking about Wallonia through it, I would like to inform you that the Walloon Parliament is doing an extraordinary and very sharp job on this issue. My dear colleague, as things stand right now – since we are obviously talking about CETA, which is going to be submitted as quickly as possible to the governments – I can tell you that there is nothing to support such a treaty both in Wallonia and in Brussels. This is an extremely important point. Indeed, in your motion for a resolution, you are talking about the necessary negotiation with the Regions. You should know that in this case, you are going to have a serious problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u87	Mr Luykx, I have listened to you very carefully. Obviously, you're getting your grades out of the study at the World Trade Institute.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u88	That's what I said, with the name on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u89	Colleague, you know who paid for this study from the World Trade Institute: the American Chamber of Commerce.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u90	Mr Van der Maelen, I have just quoted a study, as you quote. We can beat each other up with studies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u91	The American Chamber of Commerce is the lobbying machine of the very large American multinationals. You know, or you don't know, that the World Trade Institute used the CGE model for the study. I do not have this coming from the study service of sp.a. nor from the P.S.A. I have the opinion of the European Court of Auditors, which has vetted the CGE model. According to the European Court of Auditors, it is not a suitable model to carry out simulations and certainly not to make predictions in the medium and long term. Next, the European Court of Auditors says that it is not a good model, because it is not at all suitable for social impact assessments. So that's the study you're coming to see us with right now. You do not have to believe me and you do not have to believe the European Court of Auditors. I also have an article from The Time of January 28th. So you can check the source. At the beginning of the article is what you have just mentioned, namely the hurray messages from the study of the World Trade Institute. The same article also mentions a study by Professor Van Hove van de KUL, who has been with us in the committee. By the way, the article is written by Bart Haeck, whom I have not often caught on left-wing positions. I read what he writes: A second study, by KU Leuven professor Jan Van Hove, nuances the macroeconomic benefits. According to Van Hove, too much depends on the starting points that researchers leave in their simulations." Colleague, the study of the World Trade Institute is one of the types of studies that we unfortunately see too much. Whoever pays determines the content. Be careful to screen those results.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u92	You would do me too much honor or dishonor by saying that this is my study. I'm quoting here from one.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u93	(...) It is merely a coincidence that you quote from that study.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u94	It's a good study.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u95	Mr President, we are talking about a lot of studies. You're defending the majority's resolution. I note, however, and at the same time ask the author, Mr Miller, that in the resolution, the only study referred to (in point 2.b.) is a posteriori study. What will this be for? The harm will be done. Apart from crying about our fate at this time, what else can we do? I have another comment. You boast that all this is likely to create a lot of jobs, to be in favour of our businesses. But then why encourage in the resolution (see point 1.l.), the completion of a study which aims to create a clearing mechanism within the European Union for SMEs? Why do you already plan compensation as you sell this TTIP to us as a favor for our SMEs?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u96	Colleague, I absolutely want to discuss the concerns further. The second part is actually good for you; there are several things we share. In this resolution we are in favour of a number of instruments and follow-up. We also propose to carry out an evaluation. That's right. We are not dealing with the final TTIP treaty, we are not deciding what should be definitely in it. However, we call for a number of steps to be taken in order to reach the final negotiations. That's what we're discussing today. If you quote from our resolution, you must also quote it in full. Maybe let me discuss the shared concerns in more detail. One of them is the question of transparency, which must be filled in as far as possible. We have the impression that the European Commission is also in favour of this. On the other hand, it is quite obvious that not everything can be released if it is not yet available or if there is no completed document or treaty. Strange in this respect is the statement by Mrs Marie-Dominique Simonet of the cdH, who welcomed recent developments, namely the great transparency in the treaty. Apparently there's another sound out there after all. Ladies and gentlemen, our resolution states that European standards must not be weakened. The differences between European and American standards and standards can be eliminated in different ways. We must make the most of mutual recognition in the event of equivalence. In sectors or industries where there are qualitative differences in standards and standards, we are not really so afraid of the so-called race to the bottom. On the contrary, we believe that a race to the top is quite possible. The European Commission has always maintained the so-called precautionary principle. I also refer to the clear clause on this in the mandate given to the European Commission. Only when it has been proven that something is not harmful will it be allowed. As the EU adheres to that principle, the US is encouraged to raise their standards to ours. We have also made it clear in our resolution under point 1.j that our high European and national standards on consumer protection, social rights, environment and food safety must be maintained and not negotiable. Those are the steps we are asking this government to take. Especially with regard to the latter, we are surprised at the criticism we are reading because there are a number of things that are not being negotiated at all. Let me give you some examples. Also with TTIP hormone meat will not be allowed on our market. TTIP also maintains the current rules on genetically modified organisms. Also with TTIP chlorine chickens will remain prohibited. With TTIP, too, European governments will have the right to protect healthcare or education from foreign or private players. As far as ISDS is concerned, a lot has been said about this mechanism too. We need a system, but we need a new one. We agree with the proposal on the table, in particular the investment court system, which establishes a public system of investment rights with a court of first instance and a court of appeal. Ladies and gentlemen, we have always maintained our position on audiovisual services, cultural and linguistic diversity. The Commission's mandate excluded these cultural products. We refer again to this in our resolution under point 1.d. Conclusion: in our view, the negotiations that should lead to the TTIP are important. They must be fed with nuance. We refer to all the points we have included in our resolution. However, we are convinced that TTIP will ultimately boost the incomes of the European Member States, boost exports, both from the United States and the European Union, and boost consumer benefits.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u97	Mr President, we have an interesting, exciting and important debate here because we are talking about a treaty – I should say several – which risks fatal damage to our way of life, to the defence of our social and environmental vision, and to our cultural DNA. This is not a debate on a short-term project that could be quickly evaluated and amended after a certain period of time. If the TTIP passes, let's not be naive, we will not have an opportunity to reverse for a very long time. You know Jean de La Fontaine's fable "The pot of earth and the pot of iron". This fable strangely reminds me of the TTIP and the attitude of this majority, the situation of Europe vis-à-vis the United States. The risk is, of course, that the European Union, and in particular our country and its socio-economic fabric, will be the pot of land for a pseudo-agreement. The worst thing, ladies and gentlemen, is that the majority clearly believe that this TTIP is hard as an iron. Only one message is heard in his mouth: everything is fine, let's close our eyes, let's wait for it to pass. When the TTIP or CETA comes into force, I repeat that it will be too late to cry, and that we will all collectively pay for the broken pots. Despite the many reservations expressed by the representatives of civil society, despite the thousands of signatures collected throughout Europe, the monster demonstrations, the warnings of the parliamentary opposition, the discussions all over the communes - there is more and more of them outside TTIP - despite the resolutions adopted by the parliaments, especially regional ones, calling for a suspension of the negotiations, nothing does. Despite the worrying hearings that we have had, in particular by the European Commissioner, Mrs Malmström, all this is always swept away with a turn of the hand and we pass in force with a text that is, I shall return to it, bad, dangerous for our future. And at the same time, we always talk about enchanting the European ideal. I have said that, among those who dispute, there are a lot of Europeans but above all a lot of young people who are mobilizing, who are in favour of the European ideal, but who are fighting for a model of social, environmental and cultural life that is extremely important to all. They demonstrate, they go to the communes, they come to the parliament and each time, their intervention is swept away by a hand. I find this serious for our democracy. It is also an imposed text. Mr President, you have imposed a comprehensive debate on the majority motion for a resolution, while there are many other motions for resolutions. I would point out, however, that our text had a certain anteriority. Having said that, I would like to tell you that my group has always been clear in the discussions on trade agreements, in the broad sense of the word, with a constructive position. This is proof of our motion for a resolution tabled at the beginning of the legislature and our numerous recommendations to the government, under this legislature but also under the previous legislature, on such trade or free trade agreements. We have set very clear benchmarks on transparency, the need for social and environmental standards, and we have rejected so-called BLEU agreements when they do not meet these requirements. I will therefore allow myself, Mr President, to make a comprehensive statement for my group on our text on TTIP and CETA and on the text on TiSA. These two texts have been rejected by the majority, but we propose them to you in a general amendment which we are tabling today to give some meaning to your resolution. Because we are convinced that Parliament is an ideal forum for maintaining debate and dialogue and relaying the issues and concerns of civil society and citizens on the dangerous consequences of the implementation of these treaties. I will begin by recalling two basic principles that you seem to have forgotten. First of all, opening negotiations is not dangerous in itself – as you said, and that is correct – but as long as transparency is ensured. We have always demanded this one. It was at the heart of the negotiating mandate signed by Belgium. Another strong demand enshrined in the Belgian mandate is the imperative defence of our social and environmental model. I come to the second principle. Whatever some say, it is always possible to say "no" according to the turn of the negotiations. That is not what your texts seem to propose. I do not hide from you that the statements made by Minister Reynders and European Commissioner Malmström in committee are far from reassuring us. The "Don't worry", "It's blurry, but it's normal", "In these negotiations, everything will be fine" or "Circulate, there's nothing to see", which the federal government and the majority of us have been gratifying for months, do not suit us. On the contrary, I feel that the more we listen to them, the more we have to worry. Let us not forget that these free trade agreements concern us all. For several years, international treaties have followed each other around the liberalization of world trade. For the PS Group, these agreements which bind the European Union, and therefore also Belgium, cannot under any circumstances lead to a levelling down of our social, health or environmental standards. They cannot in any way threaten our jobs, our health care, our public and cultural services, our agriculture or our businesses - and I stress what has been said here about the danger to our SMEs. They cannot sacrifice them on the altar of hypothetical growth or free exchange in principle, especially without any serious impact assessment. I repeat once again that, when the agreements are concluded, it will be too late for a very long time. Asking about TTIP, CETA or TiSA is not a matter of primary euroscepticism or anti-Americanism. On the contrary, it is a matter of preventing such a free trade agreement from destroying our social, health, environmental and economic standards, those values which form the foundations of the Europe we defend and which form the basis of our trade relations throughout the world within the framework of the WTO. As you know, my group is conceptually pro-European, because we obviously need Europe, but a democratic and solidarity-based Europe, and not a Europe that destroys, that does not assume the social consequences of its to the point of political botism or, worse, a Europe that is deaf when several million citizens of all Member States reject massive mechanisms such as ISDS or when municipalities declare themselves outside TTIP or when parliaments call for the suspension of negotiations. From the top of its ivory tower, the Commission neither heard nor listened to them. As proof - my colleague Stéphane Crusnière will speak more specifically on the subject - there is a major challenge to the ISDS, the way in which trade disputes are to be managed. As you know, not only do we oppose it, civil society opposes it, but you have noticed that the judiciary at European level has mobilized by saying "it's not right". The German courts also mobilized to say that it was not right! The European Commission stands by saying "I understood you" and puts on the table a system that does not respond in any way to the criticisms and which, again, has been criticized by the German courts for example as contrary to the European treaties in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u98	Mrs Onkelinx, I am glad to hear from you about the ISDS clause, which in fact poses a great deal of problems to a number of associations, to the association of German judges, you mentioned it. The law in Germany is fundamental. You also mentioned the mechanism that led the European Commission to negotiate on behalf of the 28 Member States of the European Union. I remember, and Mr Miller also remembers, the episode of the granting of the mandate by Belgium and the 27 other Member States to the European Commission. That was the question of the cultural exception. It was a June 13, 2013. The Senate, which still had power at the time, had met to discuss a resolution on the cultural exception. We did not know at the time what the mandate was. But a number of cultural actors had mobilized us to put pressure on the Di Rupo government in which you were, so that the cultural exception would be within the mandate. And that was the case. The resolution was voted, the Kern met, you were a member of the Kern at the time, and you agreed that Belgium, like France, would eventually defend the cultural exception, which prompted the rest of the European states to go in that direction. But within the mandate granted the following day to the European Commission, on 14 June, there was already the ISDS clause, Mrs Onkelinx. And in the mandate you gave at the time to the European Commission, it was said on page 9, I quote: "the protection of investment and the settlement of disputes between investors and the State, which is called the ISDS clause, which has become after the ICS clause, will be included in the Treaty in the future." I am therefore very pleased to see you evolve today and strongly defend a position against the negotiations. But I think that we need to be much more cautious in the future when the mandate is granted, because today the United States and Europe are negotiating on the arbitral clause, which has become an arbitral tribunal, because we have let it happen. The Di Rupo government let it go, the kern of the time let it go and introduced an arbitral clause into the mandate. I believe that the final text should be evaluated in the interests of the European Union and our country and that this ISDS clause should be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u99	When you're happy, I'm happy too. Can you accept, particularly with regard to cultural exceptions, that it is through the mobilisation on the basis of a personal intervention by Elio Di Rupo – do you remember what was called the spirit of Mons – that we alerted against the dangers of the Bolkestein directive? Can you accept that every time Elio Di Rupo was questioned, he was very clear on the subject. The cultural exception is really our fight in this area. He said so not only for culture but also for social and environmental standards and for the necessary transparency of the negotiations. I want to stress this here because it is extremely important.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u100	I do not always agree with Mr Hellings, but your answer did not respond to what he pointed out. He is asking you about the fact that when you were in the previous government, you accepted everything and you are changing your mind now!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u101	Mr. Miller, I will refer you to the debate in this chamber on this matter. The Prime Minister of the time was very clear. I also refer you to the discussion in the Regions. We do not oppose simply saying that we do not agree; we have responsibilities in the regions! Mr Hellings, I am replying to you: in the regions, it is for this reason, in particular, that we do not see how we can accept CETA or TTIP. I am very clear about that. I am pleased that we agree, in particular, that in what is envisaged as two-speed justice - ordinary justice and that of large investors - what is proposed is completely unbudgetable. Stéphane Crusnière will talk about it later. I really think that nobody in the majority is aware of the dangers to which we are exposed in the negotiation of this agreement, which concerns less the reduction of tariff barriers which are already very low, than the harmonisation of non-tariff standards and regulations. These standards refer to very sensitive subjects discussed in committee, such as the exploitation of shale gas, GMOs, bleached chicken, beef with hormones, our social achievements, our culture or our public services or our mutual societies. On all these issues that affect the daily lives of our fellow citizens, we do not have an answer. How can a Belgian independent film compete with Hollywood superproduction? How can our farmers compete with American cloned or genetically modified products? How can our health care, our social standards withstand private sector attacks and American deregulation? As you know - and I look at some partners of the majority who are nevertheless sensitive to the analyses of our mutual institutions - all Belgian mutualities have made a common and official request for health care services, social services and social security systems to be excluded from the negotiating mandate, regardless of how these services are organised or financed. We fully support this request. Health and social services cannot be regarded as commodities and the right of States to define their health policy cannot be restricted under any circumstances. Today, very concretely, these social and health care services are threatened by TTIP. These agreements are presented by some as antidotes to the crisis, assuming that free trade and deregulation are the key to growth and systematically minimizing the potential risks of such an agreement. At this stage of the negotiations, my group has very many concerns. We have "materialized" them in the form of serious and constructive resolutions. I am also thinking of the resolution by our colleagues, e.g. sp.a., on health care, which we have co-signed with happiness, forcefully. They are also on the agenda of this plenary session. I say this and repeat, it is official, the PS will oppose the ratification of any agreement that threatens our European achievements in the fields of social security, health, public services, consumer protection, the environment and workers' rights. That is why we are asking for a temporary suspension of the TTIP negotiations in order to carry out a strict assessment of the progress of the negotiations in the most transparent manner. We also call for Belgium to oppose the ratification of the European Union-Canada Treaty (ECTA) in its present form. That is what is black and white in our resolution. The only condition that could allow the resumption of negotiations is to re-define Belgium's negotiating mandate to comply with the following eight benchmarks. The first is compliance with European social and environmental clauses. There must be no suspicion of dumping in order to undermine European employment. We must maintain the level of our European standards and our laws to protect those who live on European territory. The second is the maintenance of our food security. We are the continent with the highest health and agri-food standards in the world. This quality must not decline. Thirdly, the exclusion of public services and services of general interest from any commodification. Fourthly, culture and the audiovisual sector must not be part of the negotiations, because culture, as we all say, is not a commodity. Fifthly, there can be no dispute settlement clause - the ISDS was referred to - between investors and the state. This clause would affect the right to regulate States. All companies must comply with the laws of our States. Similarly, the revised version is not acceptable. Sixth, absolute respect for data protection. No espionage, no searches in the e-mails of European citizens or in the confidential documents of our companies. Seventh, the rejection of the negative commitment lists for the services negotiations. Eighth, the need for full transparency in the negotiations. These same concerns weigh on the TiSA. Although less media, this acronym covers opaque negotiations that could block, tomorrow, any regulatory will in the head of fifty of the world's largest economies that took part in this mega-trade in services. In particular, our text on the TiSA calls for the protection of public services and the general interest at Belgian and European level to be a top priority. It also calls for the exclusion of public services and the general interest from all commodification and for the promotion, at European level, of the preservation of the high quality and diversity of our public services, and of the ability of our States to legislate in this field and, where appropriate, to reverse certain liberalisations. That is the simple, pragmatic position of my group. We are currently discussing a resolution by the majority, which is, moreover, the subject of amendments. If my group has not tabled any amendments to this text, it is because it is so hollow that it was an impossible task for us. Our amendments, ladies and gentlemen, are our texts which you are always free to refer back to committee today. The majority's position is at the opposite end of our texts and those adopted by the Brussels and Walloon Parliaments. It contains some pearls on which, of course, we have not obtained any response from the majority. Recital O refers to TTIP as a major means of reindustrialising Europe. One really wonders if anyone believes in it and who wrote that in this resolution. Recital P identifies TTIP as a means of promoting our legal rules. In this case, why impose an ISDS, even remastered, if our legal rules are so good? Recital Q asks the following question: how do you think the TTIP can unblock negotiations at WTO level? Recital R presents TTIP as a growth vector. If the majority is so sure of it, why is the federal delay in making an impact assessment? Why, above all, has he commissioned a private company whose methodology has already been criticized, in particular by the European Court of Auditors, and not, for example, the SPF Economy? Finally, with regard to recital S, which is to be put in perspective with all that is written in point 1, the majority share of the almost ideological assumption that TTIP will create opportunities for our small and medium-sized enterprises. On the other hand, as Mrs Matz said, in their resolution they encourage a study which aims to create a clearing mechanism within the European Union for the benefit of SMEs. If this is so good for SMEs, why should a clearing mechanism be considered? We know that our SMEs are in danger with this type of agreement. I would also point out that application 1 refers to consultation with the Regions. But, obviously, we are not really listening to the regions which do not want the agreement as it stands. So if you want to have a coherent Belgian position, you may need to review your negotiating methods. You say, again in point 1, that it does not need a levelling down, but you say it in catini, at the end of a paragraph, in parentheses, as if it had taken the majority of the weeks of negotiation before deciding to put it, but by hiding it in a parenthesis at the end of a paragraph. However, this should be at the heart of the resolution before us. We are also told, in item 1, that the objectives of COP21 will have to be met. How? By multiplying long distance exchanges? Do the authors see shale gas as a way forward? As in exchanges of views on the European Union-Peru-Colombia Free Trade Agreement, we find all the hypocrisy of a majority, since point 1.k. asks for an ex post evaluation. For what, as Mr Crusnière said? Maybe so we could cry together about our fate, saying, "if we had known, we wouldn't have." The request d. speaks of such an evaluation but when will it take place then, since the majority has the levers to do it? What's she waiting for? What are the objective data mentioned by the majority? As for demand 1.m., we are already struggling to organise the mobility of European workers in Europe without social regulation. This is about social dumping. Why therefore think that the TTIP will facilitate the search for a new job? They're talking to us, in request 1.q. Reading rooms. What is adequate transparency? Some will explain what they have experienced by going to Foreign Affairs to look at the document. We could consult him here. We could be accompanied by technicians. There's none of this! A time slot must be set aside several days in advance, especially without the presence of technicians. All you have to do is deal with this extremely technical English text! It's not serious! That is not true transparency! Finally, if the majority changed the old application 2.c. to be attentive to concerns about the possible inclusion of ISDS provisions, it still does not trust the European courts, since it pleads at request 1.r. to rely on the new system for resolving conflicts between investors and States, which we strongly reject. I find that request 2.c. is totally outrageous. More generally, it cannot be understood that your motion for a resolution is completely silent on CETA despite the urgency. It would be interesting for our colleagues in the majority to come and explain why they are not talking about CETA, which is at the heart of the news. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen. Through such agreements, it is a question of allowing in Europe practices that Europeans forbid themselves; or that the Union – and therefore Belgium – embarks on a losing adventure by abandoning the ability of our states to legislate, protect their citizens, provide them with sometimes vital services; it is also a question of saying that the European judicial system would not suffice in the event of a dispute. Our high standards do not negotiate with Canada, the United States, or any state in this world. You have the opportunity today, through this discussion, to reenchant the ideal of Europe for the benefit of European citizens. I therefore ask you to review the work that has been done, to refer this text back to the committee for a substantive debate, to work with the Regions to ensure that there is a coherent Belgian mandate and finally to protect our social, environmental, economic and cultural model of life as best as possible. I said!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u102	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it is necessary to repeat the way in which my colleagues from the majority, whom I thank in passing, and I myself have worked on the preparation and drafting of this motion for a resolution which is before you, to the debate and to the vote. Through the various interventions, I perceived an error of appreciation. It is as if, for this issue of the TTIP, we had placed all our forces, all our objectives, all our desires, all our impulses, all our ideological pretensions, in the conclusion of an agreement. Mrs Matz said earlier that this treaty would not work, because it would not succeed in reenchanting Europe. I can understand the process. Citizens' attention has been drawn to these negotiations, and that is good. I'm not going to say, Mrs. Onkelinx, that you are suffering from primary anti-Americanism. On the other hand, and I have a little pity on you, you suffer from anti-governmentism. What hurts you deeply, and it is becoming physical, is that, suddenly, you are no longer in business to be able to say "that's how you have to act". I liked Mr. Hellings' speech a few moments ago. You didn't answer that! You're doing the lesson. Now, everything we are talking about today, all the difficulties we are facing and we are trying to provide answers to, you have voted for them! Yes, I do! You gave the green light, you were in the same majority as us. A little outfit, Mrs. Onkelinx!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u103	It's when you're uncomfortable, like Mr. Miller, you start to say anything! You're a little like Mr. Flahaux earlier, when you're uncomfortable, you don't talk about the bottom of the case. You tell us that we do not agree because we are against the government. It's full of pâquerettes! This is an extremely important issue on the merits, which will condition our way of life at European level, and you tell us that it is because we do not like the government that we are contesting! It's not serious! Again on the substance of the matter, there have been extremely interesting substantive debates in the Regions, where we are taking part in power. And where we are in power, we take on our responsibilities and say that in the present state of affairs, it is no! These are not just words in the air on the benches of the opposition! When we have the ability to block something, we block!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u104	I recognize your ability to use formulas and make them speak. "We in the Walloon Region have done an extraordinary job and there we really have proof that TTIP is a bad thing!" Finally, Mrs. Onkelinx, listen for a second! I have the right to answer Mr Devin. Mrs. Onkelinx called me, I'm answering. It's a little too simple to come all of a sudden to present the Walloon Region as the temple of scientificity. I'm a regionalist. I have been a member of Parliament for 15 years in the Walloon Region, I have a great deal of respect for the Walloon Region, but you will never make me believe, Mrs Onkelinx, that the political colour of the minister-president has no influence on the results of the scientific studies of the Walloon Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u105	It's about talking about the background here. We need a little serenity in this debate. Let's put Mr. Miller and Mrs. Onkelinx in agreement. They were in the same majority in 2013, when Belgium's mandate was granted to the European Commission to negotiate the transatlantic treaty with an ISDS clause, an arbitral clause, which was on page 9 of that mandate. And it is the responsibility of Mrs Onkelinx, who was Deputy Prime Minister at the time of the granting of the mandate, to acknowledge that she was wrong. And I recognize that it was great to have recognized it earlier in the gallery and that, yes, the arbitration clause was in the mandate, page 9, that it approved on 13 June so that Mr Reynders could give Belgium's opinion in the Council on 14 June.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u106	I know Ecolo would rather we didn't talk. We don't have a problem with dialogue. On the other hand, we're putting beacons on. I answered you earlier, Mr. Hellings. But I would like to go back to what Mr Miller said because I think it is very serious. When he says that the Walloon Region finances studies, for example, asks for studies from universities, the study is therefore oriented. Are you questioning the probity of the researchers? That's what you do! I find it of absolute gravity for a person like you! It's indecent. On the contrary, I would like to support our academics, our research institutions, who are doing their job with probity. Your words are indecent!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u107	That Mrs. Onkelinx thinks my remarks are excessive, that doesn't affect me! I can tell you that indeed, you can examine all the studies that have been carried out by the Walloon Region for years... you want an example, Mrs. Onkelinx? Because I would not like to give the feeling that I have words that I cannot justify! Do you want to study European funds in Hainaut? That's it! We can talk about these studies for a while; there is never one that has shown what really needs to be done in Hainaut! But everyone said that the decisions taken by the Socialist Party in Wallonia were very good! We're going to try to move forward... the subject we're discussing is an important subject. Several facets show the complexity of this case. Mr Luykx said something earlier, which rarely came back during the other interventions: first of all, there is the interest of consumers. It is a point that we still regard as important. There is also the protection of European standards, the revival of economic activity, the growth rate of European GDP, Belgian GDP, etc. There is the access of European SMEs to the American market, the high demands on democratic control, the precautionary principle, the quality of products, and also the strengthening of the European-American axis in the globalised economy, whether you like it or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u108	Mr Miller, how can TTIP be an advantage for consumer protection? I'd like to understand that!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u109	I spoke of interest. Here we are talking about the value of having different, multiple and cheaper products.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u110	Equal quality?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u111	That's right! I know that different citizens' movements have targeted the TTIP negotiations. The first criticism, and this has been repeated in this forum, is the lack of transparency. There is also the anti-democratic nature of the negotiations. According to the peddled image, parliamentarians would be kept out of the negotiations. They would have no say in the fact that when a free trade treaty is adopted, a treaty in which there is no longer a way to change a comma, etc. I refute that statement. I think, on the contrary, that there will be a before and a after TTIP.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u112	That's clear!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u113	It's clear and I used the express formula to stretch you the pole! There'll be a before and a after. We have indeed entered a new world that requires new types of negotiation. A man has really brought out this aspect of the negotiations and he is a socialist. Pascal Lamy was the head of the WTO. He said that what is currently being negotiated is more than what was first presented by the European Commission. As far as I am concerned, I agree with the criticisms made of the negotiations as they were launched and conducted by the previous European Commission, which made a mistake in terms of pedagogy that I will never understand. Why not start things more transparently by trying to explain clearly the mandate, the content of the negotiations, etc. For reasons X, the Commission gave the impression that there was some kind of terrible, undemocratic secret, etc. I therefore understand the citizens who have been concerned and have asked questions. But, contrary to what has been said, the concerns of the citizens and the questions asked have not remained dead letter. Changes that are not at all negligible have been made, including transparency and reporting. I therefore do not agree with the idea that parliamentarians are just puppets who have a little bit of fun on Thursday evening in the gallery trying to make it seem that the political debate is still important.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u114	Mr Miller, you seem to say that this lack of transparency is a mistake of course. I don't think so at all! On the contrary, it is proof that it took a citizen mobilization to tackle a project that goes against the interests of the large part of the population, which benefits only a few. In terms of transparency, it took this citizen mobilization to rip out a meagre concession, the reading room. We are not at all transparent when we see the conditions for accessing a 361-page text, in a closed room, as the only parliamentarian, without being accompanied by a specialist, for example without a dictionary. Remember, we were lucky to be together. It was you who had demanded to have an English-French dictionary, which we did not obtain.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u115	Legal and commercial English! Don't discount my knowledge of English!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u116	Indeed, a commercial English-French dictionary! Even that, we didn't get it! And above all, what did we have to sign? I have the copy in front of me, but you also, Mr. Miller, had to sign the commitment not to disclose what we were reading in this reading room. You signed it, too, Mr. Miller!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u117	You too!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u118	Do you call this transparency? What does this text hide so that we have to sign a treaty that commits us not to disclose its content? Can we conduct a democratic debate if we cannot reveal what we have read, Mr Miller?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u119	That's a great question! I didn't say it was just a journey incident. I really believe that this is a fault of the previous Commission. She should have known that the TTIP was going to lead to a debate that concerned, in Pascal Lamy's words, "the entry into a new world of negotiations". In fact, it should have provided for more information about the population from the outset, trying to organise and succeed more cohesion and citizens' adherence to what is under way. I think that today Mrs Malmström is faced with the need to "wet her shirt" in order to carry the right word everywhere. The European Commission has done more than you say. It has made the negotiating mandate on a site available to all citizens. This was also possible thanks to the willingness shown by our Foreign Minister, Didier Reynders, who took into account the demands made by the citizens' movements, etc. The mandate is available. We can consult him. The state of the negotiations on European applications is also available and searchable. Since these are trade-type negotiations, the United States says they're not playing in that room. Morality: The European Commission has taken it upon itself to inform, through reading rooms, the elected parliamentarians who represent the European people. It doesn't bother me that I gave my ID card, signed and committed to reading the documents in a certain context. Why? Because I was going to check only one thing: I wanted to be sure that in all the elements where we found an imperative on the part of the European Union, we found our concerns in environmental, social, sanitary, phytosanitary, cultural, etc. I saw him! Mr Van Hees, you were here, you can't say that's not true. I'm not saying everything will be done. We are talking about the continuation of negotiations and the question is not to say that the agreement is perfect and that we are following it. It is a question of what the European Union, in an important negotiation with the United States, can and must ask to protect our standards, the interests of citizens, small and large companies. It seems to me that I've found all this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u120	Mr Miller, you're talking about defending citizens, businesses, big people, small people. You put them in one bag. But this treaty does not treat large and small enterprises in the same way. I am not going to say that this treaty only defends the interests of the "richards" (you would see a personal attack there!), [[But in any case multinationals.]] When I read the UCM statement, I think you're gonna have a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u121	I thought I'd talk about SMEs later, but I can talk about it now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u122	I understand that you don't have a lot of concerns about workers, mutuals, public services, the environment or health, but SMEs are part of your electorate! What does the UCM say? "Are all employers' organisations in favour of this. All of them? No, the UCM and the Walloon Federation of Agriculture oppose the project. Our Board of Directors discussed this, and it was unanimously held that Walloon and Brussels SMEs have nothing to gain from this Treaty. On the contrary, in its present form it presents dangers". In a way, your resolution confirms what the UCM is saying, since you have asked the European Union to create a clearing mechanism for SMEs. If they need compensation, it's because they're losing with the TTIP.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u123	All right. I thought I'd talk about SMEs later, but I might as well take the bull by the horns right away. With all due respect for the UCM and for those involved in the development of our SMEs and all the work of entrepreneurs, and although I understand the concerns raised by such negotiations, I have the feeling that it is a bit of a short time to put aside the politicians and parliamentarians we are; it is a little bit of a short time to put aside the importance of the European Parliament. This amounts to saying: "It's over. It is clear that the TTIP, with what will be obtained, will be harmful to SMEs". Again, I respect their concerns. However, between the time that this has been said and today, Mr Van Hees, parliamentary work has been carried out, meetings have been held with the European Commission. What do we see gradually emerging? In the requests made today by the Commission, which we have been able to consult together in this famous reading room, there is an entire chapter on SMEs. I do not say – and I will never say it in the gallery – that this will be in the agreement. In fact, it will have to be assessed on the basis of what is put on the table by the European Commission. That is why we are very attentive to what could be achieved in favour of SMEs and are extremely demanding an opening up of American markets. We want to do everything possible to help SMEs conquer these markets. As for this study to determine whether a compensation plan is needed, and Sarah Claerhout had also carried this file at our working meetings, we did so. Why? I come back to what I said earlier – and I apologize to Mrs.Onkelinx if I got a little upset about her. It is a political text, it is a working text, it is what we want, which we set as a beacon for the Belgian Government. And we say that we will see measures in favour of the development of SMEs, the training of people working in SMEs, the implementation of policies that enable our SMEs to conquer markets, including public procurement on US soil. Mr Van Hees, we do not say that this TTIP is wonderful, that it will be the eighth wonder of the world for our SMEs. We do not say this because we are concerned and understand the concerns of SMEs, but we support the continuation of the negotiations because we want to reach the best possible agreement to help our businesses, whether large or small. We want this agreement to allow GDP growth to increase at Belgian and European level. We hope that this is how it will be done. And we are aware that it will not be obvious to do so. We therefore regret the position of the Socialist Party that wants to sweep this away.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u124	The invisible hand!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u125	No, it is not the invisible hand since we propose to take regulatory measures, supervision, etc. So this has nothing to do with the invisible hand. The negotiations must continue, not to bring about this eighth wonder of the world that the TTIP would be – because it is not – but to one element, a piece of a building that we carry at Belgian level through the policy of the federal government and at European level. It is true that we hope for a re-industrialisation of the European Union. And it is not through a motion for a resolution that we must say what must be done to re-industrialise Europe. But when ministers are at the table of the European Council of Ministers in economic matters or in the various areas concerning political, social and economic activity in our country, they must have in mind what we are asking for. I do not like the formula of the "re-enchantment of Europe" which makes me think too much of Alice in Wonderland. Formulas are used and I have the right to find that it is a little weak. I have said nothing else; I share the ambition. We have discussed at length, and I thank the chairman of our committee for all the hearings he has organised, because it has been many weeks since Members, even those who have nothing to say, have been working on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u126	Mr. Miller,...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u127	Let me finish what I started to say, or I'll lose myself. Well, that's it, I'm lost.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u128	I'll make you dream, Mr. Miller. I don't know who you were talking about when talking about Alice in Wonderland when we were talking about "re-enchanting the European project". I wondered if you weren't targeting Mrs. Matz. I don't know if she looks like Alice in Wonderland, but in the background who said that the European project should be re-enchanted? Who is Alice in Wonderland? He's Prime Minister Charles Michel. This allows you to dream to continue your intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u129	My idea came back to me. Ladies and gentlemen, let this remain between us. Don't tell her. So that's an excellent formula. [[Laughs]] I didn't think about it. Thank you for teasing me, but you understood what I meant. A formula requires content. This is what we are working on, and what the Michel government is working on, both at European and federal level. [[Brouhahaha]] I ask you, who have power in Wallonia, as you have said and repeated, and who have it in Brussels, to convince your friends that it is important that Wallonia and Brussels also work to unite their forces so that together, at federal or European level, - or that of a TTIP agreement with the Americans - these elements give real content to European re-enchantment. I'm a liberal. In my opinion, re-enchantment is good. But there is no money to finance this reenchantment! When you have to tell the citizens of Europe that there is unemployment and that the means are lacking, etc., you can always run to re-enchant them. Try to explain Alice to Wonderland! We need financial resources. The N-VA, the CD&V, the Open Vld and the MR support a negotiation because we hope that it will indeed lead to additional growth for Europe and Belgium. Colleagues, I have already said a lot of things that I thought I would present in a more calm way and I would like to be sure that I have not forgotten anything. I had an arrow against the PTB but Mr. Van Hees helped me, so I'm not gonna throw it at him. I also had some elements against the Socialist Party, but it's already done. I therefore continue my intervention. With regard to the continuation of the negotiations on culture, Mr Hellings was right to say that it was at a time when European filmmakers began to draw the attention of policies that there was a gap. And that's when things really moved. Mrs Onkelinx, you are right; Mr Di Rupo has always identified himself in the fight for the cultural exception. Nevertheless, I can tell you that he was frankly not alone. I know that, being with him for many years. So I know what we could do together. Like what! I would also like to stress another point. First of all, there is the interest we have in agricultural matters. Farmers are in an extremely difficult situation. Once again, our government is paying attention to this, thanks to the policy developed by Willy Borsus. We really want to provide the necessary answers and protection to farmers through the negotiations that we hope will succeed. We are therefore paying attention to the situation of farmers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u130	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u131	In a resolution, it is permissible to give a white-seing to negotiate while pointing out a marked attention, black-on-white, in favour of farmers. And what we're saying is that federal government policy, especially not Willy Borsus, is also part of a set of responses. We have the weakness to believe that we must work both at federal level, at European level, at the level of trade agreements and, I repeat, at regional level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u132	Mr Miller, I hear your plea for agriculture. I would like to ask myself one question: why, therefore, did we not accept our amendment on the agricultural exception, tabled in committee and re-tabled here in plenary session and on which we will have to take a decision just now? You will still have the opportunity to catch up. That would be moving from speech to action, Mr. Miller.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u133	Mr President, Mr Miller, in relation to agriculture, there is an important and interesting element of context that is never mentioned, but if we venture into a transatlantic market, our farms, which are notoriously much smaller in size than American farms, will have a competition problem. That is, the kilo of corn, soybeans, beef and pork produced in the United States will be much lower than that of ours. Indeed, American farms are deliberately and for a long time industrial, whereas Europeans have instead relied on family and local farming. If, adventurously, we engage in a transatlantic market, European farmers, and therefore Walloon and Flemish farmers, will not only face competition on health and environmental standards, they will find themselves faced with competitors that are much bigger than them and that they could not fight. I have been asked to discuss this, in the context of citizen debates, with Belgian white-blue producers in the Condoz. One operator said to me: "But, you know, I wish I could sell my Belgian blue white in the commercial areas of my region rather than find in my store – the one where I'm going to shop, Argentine or American beef." That's the question here, that's the danger.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u134	I would like to remind you that what is important is the specifications, and that we can have quality agriculture and import and export quality products. You say that our agriculture is different from that of the United States: certainly. But our agriculture in the Walloon Region is also very different from that of Poland or other Member States of the European Union. I wanted to stress that. As far as the agricultural exception is concerned, I think that the amendment should be read out completely. We may then be able to talk about it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u135	I thank Mrs Cassart for taking the words out of my mouth. I can add, in response to these two questions, that we are aware of the enormous difficulties and the legitimate fears of the agricultural sector. We are working on this, particularly with representatives of our government. If we are not talking about an exception, it is for the reasons that I have tried to explain so far. Our ambition is for this government to be able, thanks to its weight at European level, to contribute to the best possible TTIP agreement, which also concerns agricultural products, Mrs Cassart has just said. It is also about our exports. We don't want to throw the baby away with the bath water. I am authorized to state at this forum – I read the text prepared for me – that if objective data showed that an agricultural sector is significantly affected economically by the removal of tariff barriers, we would ask for mechanisms to be put in place to exclude or protect that sector. We do not want to do this a priori.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u136	These data are already objectivable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u137	I look forward to the study being carried out by Minister Peeters. So I answered you about the agricultural sector. I will say one more word about the GMOs, which are excluded. All we've said about Belgian blue-white cows is no!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u138	A simple clarification, Mr. Miller. Can you explain how this is not possible? I often hear that: GMOs are not possible. Chlorine chicken, it's not possible. Hormone beef is not possible. But why isn't that possible? As far as I know, everything can still be negotiated. We can't even spread what's in the text.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u139	The issue of GMOs is excluded from the TTIP negotiations. That's the only answer I can give you. It's a little dry, but in a way, I'm glad.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u140	One more word on the agricultural sector, since we are at the heart of the matter. We must stop conducting a reduction debate on TTIP by talking only about chlorinated chickens. There is no doubt that we do not wish to have chlorinated chickens. This is part of the negotiations. This is not even negotiable. That's not even a possibility. The counter-advertisement of TTIP was done by referring only to these chlorinated chickens and beef with hormones. That's enough! I'm talking about the specifications. I will give another example: milk. We cannot export milk to America because, there, the specifications are more specific than at home. In America, milk must be pasteurized three times. At home, in Europe, it's once. It is interesting, in the TTIP or in any agreement, to weigh the pros and cons, to give its margins, its specifications, but above all not to have a reducing debate like the one you lead.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u141	I would like to take this opportunity to mention this in the gallery: with Mr. Van Hees, we have been looking for, Mr Friart, which in the document concerned the production of beer. We didn't find anything. We will therefore come back with questions. One aspect concerns wines and spirits. I'll leave the pun for you, Mr. Van Hees!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u142	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u143	I thought you were going to make it clear that everything about wine production from the American point of view is listed under the acronym COLA.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u144	As far as beer is concerned, Mr Friart may be concerned, because a whole chapter is devoted to the protection of wine, but nothing is said about beer. This means that there is no special protection in relation to beer. So, Mr Friart, if I were you, I would worry and vote against the majority resolution on TTIP.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u145	Nice try, Mr. Van Hees! Don't vote against it, Mr. Friart! It is not because we have not seen it that it does not appear! Now imagine the opposite situation! Let's follow Mr. Magnette! We hang, we say no, it's over! The global trade negotiations stop at the Grognon in Namur. That's the end point. In fact, they have already had King Albert's statue removed in order to make room for all this! Suppose the PS won! In the Walloon Region, it's no! Everything stops at the Grognon! In Brussels, it's over too! They are no longer involved in negotiations, exports, etc. There is no longer any interest in the possible developments at the global level in all matters relating to trade in Brussels, etc. We're making a big pedestrian. There! Done! It's important! Why? If we follow you, if we do not reach an agreement, if in the agreement reached we do not find what we want, what will happen? Who will set the standards, these famous European standards, to which you are so attached? No, it won't be Europe! These will be negotiations between the United States and China, from which we will be excluded. I'm not the one making it up. I quote again Socialist Pascal Lamy, the great head of the WTO. If there is one who knows this matter well, it is him! He said: "The game of precaution is in the hands of the highest level of precaution that is in the United States and that is in Europe." I stressed that the level of precaution for our citizens, for our businesses, for consumers is the highest at the US and European levels. But there is indeed a risk. If we do not do so with the Americans, if we do not reach an agreement through the TTIP, there is a risk that they will impose their standards on the Chinese. With a Chinese-American standard, I can tell you that we'll have trouble!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u146	I would like Mr Miller to explain to me what the pedestrian comes to do in the TTIP, so that I can talk about it with the Brussels ewe Mr Courtois. As Walloons, we have to build bridges together, and if you're talking about the Grognon, I wouldn't want to stay that way without discussing it with our friends in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u147	Faithful to your name, you anticipated what I was going to say. It was just an image. Like you, I come to Brussels in the morning and go back in the evening. Contrary to what people think, parliamentarians are working and I know the problems of Brussels traffic. The pedestrian, the tunnels, all this came to mind! Texts were voted on. Mrs. Onkelinx is right. Don't laugh, Mrs. Onkelinx! You had a text voted in Namur and Brussels saying: "It's over! We're suspending." If there is an acceptable TTIP agreement between Europeans and Americans, but if you have a visceral opposition to such an agreement, in the years to come, our children and grandchildren will depend on standards that will no longer be set at European level! That's the reality! Ms. Onkelinx used some sort of black crystal ball; she said it would be terrible, there would be no more opportunities for SMEs and chlorinated chicken would be eaten. In the absence of such an agreement, standards will now be set between Americans and Chinese and Europe will be in its corner. What will you tell me then? Now you'll tell me that we've tried to reenchant Europe. It'll be worth it! Our criteria will no longer be operational worldwide. I'm not saying it, but Pascal Lamy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u148	Mr Miller, a contrario, if everything were to be decided between the Americans and the Chinese, what would you do?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u149	I didn't understand the question. The struggle of my political formation is precisely to do everything possible to ensure that this is not the case. We are trying to maintain high standards and to talk between Americans and Europeans so that this agreement can have beneficial effects in terms of job and business creation, economic growth, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u150	Mr Miller, I will not pretend that all the arguments you make are to be rejected. However, I have two questions. Firstly, assuming that no agreement is reached with the United States, how can we believe that it is necessarily the agreements between the United States and China that would be binding on the rest of the world, in particular on the whole European market? I would remind you that the latter is the first consumer market in the world, even before the United States. Why would there be some kind of automaticity that would want the agreements that the Americans would conclude with the Chinese to be imposed tomorrow? No, no, no, no, no, no, I would remind you that it is because negotiations within the WTO have failed that we find ourselves with attempts at bilateral negotiations. Moreover, China is still far from being able to impose its views on the WTO. I am seeking to understand this kind of automaticity which you seem to deduce as the end of Europe's autonomy on the grounds that, by hypothesis, the Chinese and the Americans would agree. My second concern is more important. Can you explain to me why the United States is seeking to multiply bilateral agreements, if not because they aim to impose their standards or, in any case, the bulk of them on their partners? That is where the real question lies. I'll tell you why. For my part, I am not opposed to negotiations with the United States. I am not one of those who find it infamous. Far from it! But the real problem is that Europe has entered into negotiations with the United States without knowing what standards it wants for itself. We're working backwards. It is because Europe today has not sufficiently harmonized its standards that it is in a weak position in its negotiations with the United States. A personality as eminent as Pierre Defraigne, who is still not of the extreme left – we can mention other personalities, such as Pascal Lamy but I know well that there are on each side people who think the opposite of their ideological camp – said quite rightly (we must read his chronicles, in particular, in La Libre Belgique), that Europe has engaged in these negotiations like a chicken without a head, not knowing where it wants to go for itself. Therefore, if we do not settle first what Europe wants for itself, all negotiations are biased. And to that question, you don't answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u151	I'll answer you, Mr. Maingain. First of all, I thank you for reminding me of an argument that I did not insist on enough, but you invite me to do so. The vision of the opponents of TTIP from the outset, according to which it will be the end of the world, has forgotten one little thing, which you have just recalled, is the strength of the European Union. This force, it wrongs those who said that Europeans were negotiating like "small arms" with the Americans who will impose on them what they want. That's not true, totally not true! As you said, the European Union, with its number of consumers, represents one of the richest markets in the world, with a GDP higher than that of the United States. Those who say that Europeans are "little" are wrong. I am not saying that this argument has been put forward today, but that is what we hear in the population. The second argument is a headless chicken. It's amazing! This is the second type of argument that was used. European negotiators do not know what they are talking about. They don't know what they have to defend. European negotiators do not have sufficient knowledge, for example, of existing agricultural standards. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u152	I'm not saying that's what Mr. Maingain said. That's what I answer to him. I say we have standards. We would not have the discussion that we have had for weeks and weeks, if there were no European standards, European criteria, European standards for sanitary, phytosanitary, etc. In my opinion, the argument that the European negotiators are blindfolded, that they don't know what they're doing, that they don't know what they're supposed to be defending, that they're negotiating against their camp, they're negotiating against the Europeans, they're not on the road. I won't be unpleasant, Mr. Maingain, because I have respect for you. But I invite you to go to the reading room, to consult the documents. You will see that European standards are included. You say we don't know them. But you don't know them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u153	Mr. Miller, you are usually more respectful of each other's interventions. But it's okay, I'm listening to your arguments. You cannot deny that the European negotiators who have been mandated have changed considerably in terms of their demands because of the pressure of public opinion, including the states.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u154	I said it at the beginning of my speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u155	It is undeniable that at the beginning of the process, the level of requirement was not the same as can be seen today. There is indeed a question of headless chicken. He is led to think by wise observers. It's not me. I will not allow myself to be so pretentious. I quoted Pierre Defraigne. You can't say that he's a man who thinks he's an amateur in terms of knowledge of European issues. Nor is he a man hostile to negotiations with the United States. He considered that Europe had not reached its maturity of harmony and internal integration in order to start a negotiation process with the United States. That is why there is an error in methodology. There were not enough achievements in the European Union in terms of harmonising a number of policies, in which, moreover, Europe's current weakness at the economic level and the crisis which weighs more heavily in the European area than in any other highly developed country area such as the United States. That is what is being criticized. It was first necessary to do the work of European unity before negotiating the single transatlantic market. It is a question of method and it is on that question that you do not answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u156	Mr Maingain, I think I have answered that. That you didn't like my answer is something else! Since the beginning of my presentation, what I have presented as the majority's position is the fact that we believe that the negotiation of TTIP is part of a set of policies to be pursued, whether at regional, federal, European or global level. TTIP is not the eighth wonder in the world. It must be part of a dynamic. Mr Maingain, I agree with you that this dynamic must be found in the European Union itself at the level of the Commission. Action is being taken to try to achieve greater unity at European level. Only if we wait, like the carabinieri of Offenbach, for a unit to emerge at European level all of a sudden to begin thinking about our exports and negotiations with a trading power such as the United States, they will go to negotiate with the Chinese. In this case, the European Parliament will do nothing, as well as the national parliaments. We will be there waiting for us to be told that Europe is better. Europe will be better if it is able to reach an excellent agreement under the TTIP. That's our position. That's our point of view. I can understand, Mr. Maingain, that you do not share it, but we really feel that, if we wait for what you say, we will never achieve anything. As for Mr Defraigne, it was true that his speech was extremely interesting, but he was developing another analysis, that of the need to be part of a multilateral framework. I think he likes the WTO very much. That was his point of view. In the texts currently under negotiation, it is stated that if agreement is reached on the definition of standards between Americans and Europeans, it will be much stronger to be able to revive a pace of discussion at the WTO level. That is what led me – I tell you, Mr Maingain – to say to me: he is right on the merits, and that is how the European negotiators can respond.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u157	Your notion of multilateralism is to define norms between us and impose them on third parties. I apologize, but that is not multilateralism. Europe and the United States will settle down, impose standards on third parties. That is not multilateralism.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u158	I'll answer you, too, Mrs. Matz. In any case, I can tell you that a multilateralism where others would impose standards on us, I would not at all like to do so either. If there is a multilateral discussion at the WTO level, I also like that Europeans are strong enough, in agreement with the Americans, to have common standards. Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Reform Movement wants these negotiations to continue, their success and a positive effect on our economy and jobs – one of the objectives, if not the major objective of the Michel government. We have confidence in the work and vigilance of our Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Department of the SPF Economy, who will publish an impact study at the beginning of September on the Belgian economy. We do not want to play with the fear of the citizens. We want to take on our responsibilities. We feel that what needs to be done is to explain the issues properly, to call on the citizens to think about them. There is a need to pay close attention to how negotiations can be built. I have confidence, we have confidence in democracy, in debate, explanation, transparency. I refute the judgment attentists, the slogans. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your attention and for all the work that has been done in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u159	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, much has been said in recent hours. In recent years, the debate on TTIP has been very lively, both inside and outside Parliament. In committee, too, we have exchanged many arguments, counter-arguments and concerns. There have been hearings, where we have received a lot of relevant information. We have exchanged ideas and concerns. It is thanks to this debate that many concerns, pain points and delicate points have emerged. I think this is a positive development, because it is the work of the many civil society organisations, it is the work of the journalists, it is also the work of the parliaments to intervene and to play that role fully and to point out the difficulties. After all, there is no agreement yet. The negotiations are still under way. A trade agreement of this magnitude is unseen, both in terms of its potential economic size and in terms of its content. Of course, that raises many questions and uncertainties. In this resolution and the amendments to it, we have tried to adopt an attitude in which we take account of the opportunities, but also of the challenges and concerns that emerge in this debate. Although we may judge the opportunities and challenges of transatlantic trade relations differently from different backgrounds and parties, I think we agree that the European social model and the regulatory framework should be safeguarded. There are also many concerns and concerns. This has also been crucial for our group, but at the same time we also see the potential of TTIP to promote the economy, our prosperity and our well-being. I come to the opportunities. Belgium is an open economy in which trade, growth and jobs form the basis of our prosperity. International relations and international trade are crucial for our country. Trade between the US and the EU accounts for 30% of world trade. More than 750 000 Belgian jobs depend on exports. This figure is constantly increasing. Mr van der Maelen, we have just talked about various studies. You cited, among other things, the most recent study by the World Trade Institute. We must, indeed, be careful who is behind these studies. The study is sponsored by AmCham. However, it is also a study carried out by a consortium of European universities. When looking at the many studies, it is noted that many studies usually mention positive impacts and opportunities. A minority of the studies, including the Tufts University study, see rather negative consequences. However, this study was also thoroughly studied and questioned by other organisations. A dynamic export and continuing to encourage foreign investment in our country, such as through TTIP, are positive for our country. SMEs should also be encouraged to work more export-oriented. The Regions are helping them in this respect, by the way. A challenge of TTIP is that sectoral impacts are difficult to determine. It is therefore extremely important that we face the sectors. That is why the resolution also talks about a safeguard clause and about accompanying workers to another job, should there be any negative consequences. However, this needs to be looked at even further. In addition to improved market access, TTIP aims to remove non-tariff trade barriers and improve cooperation in the definition of regulatory systems. This is not only necessary because there are already a lot of lower rates, but also because the production of goods and services is no longer in one place. The world has changed and evolved tremendously in that respect. Worldwide production chains connect us. In the past, national production was protected through import tariffs and subsidies, but today we must also protect consumers through standards and standards. If we want our socio-economic model to survive, it is clear that a strong market together with the US can play a role in this. The crucial question in this debate is not for our group whether we want an agreement, but above all what form the agreement should take. What do we want TTIP to look like? The debate must not be confined to free trade and economic objectives alone. It is also about the protection of workers, consumers and the environment, shared values and global standards. Hence, there are a number of uncertainties. We have a number of red lines there, but they are also included in the mandate of Europe. For example, the protection of our social rights, the environment and consumer protection must not be allowed to continue. It is also essential that TTIP does not undermine the competences and responsibilities of the European Member States in the social, education or health services field. Our ability to regulate must remain guaranteed. This will also be included in the mandate. TTIP also raises many questions about democracy and transparency, just because it is also about our European standards and values. In the course of this process, which has been going on for a long time, the people have raised very legitimate concerns about this. We have to be sensitive to that. We are therefore pleased that the Commission has evolved in this area and that documents are being released more and more. It may not be enough yet, but it has already been said that this is how we are engaged in the most transparent negotiations in this area. So let's make sure that we can move forward in that direction. The strategic importance of the agreement is also very great. This cooperation gives Europe the opportunity to secure its position in the globalised world, and it can thus also have a greater influence on the wider political agenda. In other words, we see TTIP in this context, with all the reservations and concerns that certainly need to be addressed and included in the resolution, as a lever. We see it as an opportunity for our companies to gain better access to the American market and, for example, to public procurement. We see it as a lever to promote our standards worldwide. There is also a chapter on sustainable development in TTIP. We must insist that it be properly worked out. This not only gives us the opportunity to help set the standards of the future, but also to promote higher standards worldwide. So we have every interest in TTIP being able to determine the basis of future international standards. However, TTIP is also about more. It is also about the political impact that we will have today and tomorrow at global level. It can improve our strength and our voice in tomorrow's world. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in favour of a good agreement. For us, this is crucial in the whole discussion. Again, we are not here today to vote on the trade agreement. We are voting on a resolution in which we are in favour of a good agreement. That good agreement must take into account all the concerns expressed today by both the opposition and the majority. In the resolution, we ask the government to keep a close eye on all this and to keep a very close eye on every step of the negotiation round, and to take into account all the concerns raised, but also the opportunities that many of us see in the agreement. We are therefore convinced that TTIP can strengthen our economy in the 21st century. Above all, we must continue to work and negotiate in order to reach a good agreement. That is what the resolution calls for in the end.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u160	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to talk about who was in which government and who decided what, and that is not going to contribute much to the debate. Liberals prefer to look ahead, and I want to do the same here. Customs duties, bureaucracy and low investment make it more difficult than necessary to sell goods and services on both sides of the Atlantic. The removal of these barriers, which are both tariff and non-tariff, will have to stimulate our economy, create jobs and reduce consumer prices. More trade will strengthen our economy, create jobs, ensure lower prices and more choice, increase purchasing power and strengthen the competitiveness of our companies. That's what TTIP is all about. What is the future of Euro-American trade relations? Trade between Europe and the United States accounts for 16% of total world trade, accounting for almost half of global GDP. Much of future growth in the world will fall outside European and American borders. US investment in Europe is worth EUR 1 652 billion, our investment in the US is worth EUR 1 687 billion, which is balanced. EU exports to the US amounted to EUR 311 billion in goods and EUR 159 billion in services. In Europe today, around 30 million people work in the export sector, around 14% of the total number of jobs in the EU. Opening up markets for trade and investment around the world will allow the EU to create even more jobs than it is today. Job creation by opening up new markets means investing free of charge in the future of our children and grandchildren. Why are we liberals for TTIP? We are in favour of this, firstly because free trade is a source of prosperity, both economically and socially. Trade has enormous potential to positively influence investment and living standards. Second, TTIP means opportunities for SMEs and opportunities to export. However, SMEs are the backbone of the European economy. They represent 99% of European companies, with which I immediately demonstrated that the European economy is not at all dominated by a few large companies. In addition, SMEs account for two thirds of jobs in the European private sector. It is therefore necessary to help SMEs, not only by improving access to markets, but also through administrative simplification. Today, an SME has to face a real administrative burden in order to be able to export to the United States. Many of these difficulties are addressed in TTIP. Today, the costs for SMEs often do not outweigh the benefits, the profits they gain from trading with the United States, through permits and legal problems. Other benefits include the removal of customs requirements and debt securities tariffs, the simplification of administrative procedures and customs procedures, the liberalisation of trade and services and the improvement of investment conditions. A third reason for the liberals to support TTIP is that it attracts investment in the European economy. TTIP can provide interesting investments in Europe, which will also generate jobs. In addition, TTIP will also ensure that European and Belgian talent can remain here, as our group saw with its own eyes during its visit to Silicon Valley in San Francisco in November. The business climate in Silicon Valley is very positive. There is no shame in failing three times when starting a business. This is the opposite of what we are doing today: once we go down here, we are being sent down the street with pitch and feathers. That's gonna have to change a little bit around here. Well, we have met young Flemish entrepreneurs who have crossed the pond looking for venture capital. Some stay on the spot because there's money, and start a business there and create jobs there. However, we have also met entrepreneurs from a spin-off of Ghent University who have gone there looking for money and have invested not only there, but also here. That, ladies and gentlemen, must be the aim. We must bring such investments here, so that Belgian talent can also grow here and provide jobs for our children and grandchildren. That example of life as it is in Silicon Valley proves that investment is definitely needed here. Fourthly, we are in favour of TTIP, because it strengthens transatlantic relations and Western standards. The EU and the US have a great opportunity with TTIP to consolidate their position on the world economic stage. In fact, we will be able to safeguard and impose our high standards as a model for world trade. It is a choice, ladies and gentlemen: either we take the lead, or we continue to watch the rules of the game defined elsewhere along the sidelines. Those who reject TTIP do not opt for the status quo but for decline. Above all, let us not forget that the transatlantic economic bloc will gain a stronger position on the geopolitical chessboard. Colleagues, I would like to refute some of the myths about TTIP. First of all, there is the myth that TTIP will lead to lower levels of protection. As other colleagues have said, the Commission is negotiating the harmonisation of European and American regulations to facilitate access to markets. The opponents fear that this will lead to a weakening of EU legislation. The most widely discussed example is the fear of food safety, whose chlorine chicken has become the most famous symbol. Article 8 of the mandate given to the European Commission by the Member States, including Belgium, clearly states that the EU and the Member States will not accept any reduction in European standards of protection. There is therefore no need to worry about existing European standards for the protection of consumers, the environment or health care. The European Commission, the European Parliament, our national governments and the Chamber will ensure that they are not affected and that the current levels of protection continue to apply. There will be no concessions on protection standards. A high level of protection will be maintained. The aim is always to harmonise upwards or harmonise at the same level. It is never a question of leveling, not on the American side, nor on the European side. A second myth, ladies and gentlemen, is that TTIP will be a threat to public services and democracy. In the same vein, it is feared that public services will be the victims of forced privatisation or that governments will no longer dare to nationalise in the general interest. All EU trade agreements leave governments free to complete their public services as they wish. Here, too, it will be. Each Party therefore reserves the right to maintain issues of safety, public health, social security or environmental regulation at the level deemed necessary. Governments can still define what they consider to be public services. They may also choose to have certain services performed exclusively by the public sector. The Commission also indicated that it would be explicitly included in the free trade agreement. TTIP will never prevent countries from acting in the interests of their people, let that be clear. A third myth is the lack of transparency. Critics denounce the fact that the negotiations are conducted in the back rooms. Well, we can confirm that the European Commission has shown an unprecedented degree of transparency. All negotiating texts were published on the Internet and a public inquiry was organised.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u161	Mr Vandenput, you are right, there has been an effort of transparency on the part of the Commission. This happened when the Trade Commissioner changed. Under Mr. From Gucht, it was the cross and banner to get a minimum of elements. And since the arrival of Mrs Malmström, whom we have met here, the Commission has made some efforts. I regret that this is because of the arrival of Mrs Malmström and not under Mr. From Gucht. If, today, you know this unprecedented mobilisation of European civil society towards TTIP, it is, among other things, because this error of non-transparency was committed by the Vld De Gucht.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u162	Mr President, I can simply answer that Mr De Gucht started the negotiations when he was Commissioner, but that we are now in a further phase. I am sure that our party colleague Karel De Gucht would have gone to that stage as well. We all hoped, perhaps you too, that Mr De Gucht would still be Commissioner, but that is not the case. However, I am sure he would have done the same. DG Trade's website is full of info sheets and sheets that give an overview of each chapter of TTIP in ordinary human language. All representatives of the people of all European Parliaments, including the Flemish and federal parliaments, have access to the consolidated negotiating texts. That's never been seen. Yesterday I met a number of fellow Members in the reading rooms. I recommend that those who have not been there should go there anyway, because it is quite a revelation to be able to read the lyrics. Mr President, I will conclude with a political approach. Our resolution is a balanced resolution without taboos. It is certainly not a ratification of the TTIP agreement, which has yet to be concluded with the United States and for which we have given a mandate to the European Commission. The social debate on TTIP is important, but it is also high time that it was again about facts and real concerns, and not about a number of myths that we can sometimes read. One in six Belgians owe their job to European exports. The final balance of increased trade flows means more growth, more jobs and more prosperity for all citizens. Again, 90% of global economic growth over the next 15 years will be created outside the EU. Many in the hemisphere want a stronger Europe. I am in favour of that, too. My party has always been a leader of that. Today, we urge some EU Member States not to sit back, sit down and look at Europe, which is dismantling itself somewhat in this area. We must motivate those Member States to strive for a stronger Europe. I note, however, that some of the parties in relation to the trade agreement actually adopt the same attitude as some of the conservative or nationalist countries that we are pointing the finger at today, Poland and Hungary. That's a dispersal that's not sustainable. We Liberals believe that more Europe will make us better and that we should open ourselves to other continents in order to safeguard and stimulate trade. I'm just finding that reclining doesn't apply, not even at world level. Protecting our own sovereignty by not negotiating such free trade agreements is the same as the attitude of countries such as Poland and Hungary at European level. And we shouldn't do that. Hence our call to be open to progress and free trade, because free trade will guarantee our prosperity and that of future generations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u163	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the secretariat of the Committee on External Relations and both rapporteurs, Mr Hellings and Mr Vandenput, who have produced a beautiful document of almost 200 pages. It provides a good overview of Belgium's knowledge of TTIP, both in the academic world and in civil society and business. All knowledge has been brought together in the document. So we should not be ashamed of this report, compared to the way in which it was dealt with in other European Parliaments. Ladies and gentlemen, I had prepared a long speech, but I will shorten the first ten pages of it to one sentence. Our group will not vote in favour of the resolution because the TTIP project, firstly, gives too much scope to the market, secondly, gives much more power to multinationals and, thirdly, undermines democracy and democratic decision-making. In relation to what other Members have said, it is, fourthly, not in the interests of European citizens, even as consumers. I will try to make these four points clear as follows. Firstly, the first question that I am asking myself, and which I assume other Members are asking themselves, is the following. Will the TTIP agreement be in the interests of our companies? Perhaps everyone is asking this question. I shall divide this part of my speech into the following points. First of all, it surprises me personally, and it also makes me a little suspicious, that we still do not have an impact study for Belgium. Perhaps my suspicion is unjustified, but if people were convinced that TTIP is good and hassle-free for our own companies, we would have had such a study a long time ago. Secondly, there are other studies. There are studies, as mentioned earlier by Mr Luykx, which are very optimistic and show very good results. There is the European Commission study, which predicts a growth rate of 0.5% of the European GDP after 10 years. That is little, ladies and gentlemen; that means one more coffee per week for every Belgian at that time, ten years later. There is also a study by Tufts University, to which reference has already been made. Let us be intellectually honest: it is very difficult to predict such a thing. This will only be seen once the Treaty has entered into force. Nevertheless, there is something that strikes me, ladies and gentlemen, when I look at each of these studies. Our country, Belgium, is always a member of the group of countries that experience the least good results and the least positive effects of the TTIP Treaty. In the positive and in the negative we are always at the bottom. How can you explain that? I have talked to some economists about this, people who know more about the economy than I do. They believe that the explanation for this can be found in the structure of our economy. We all know that our economy is characterised by the fact that more than 90% of our businesses are SMEs. These economists say TTIP is very good for very large companies. By the way, we all know where the idea of TTIP comes from, from BUSINESSEUROPE and AmCham, the defence organizations of the super-large companies in Europe and America, which have much easier access to top politicians. They have convinced European and American leaders that it is good for these big companies to do this kind of operation, which will take place in TTIP. But what is the fate of small businesses? I'm gonna ask you to take a little time to think. We know that 80% to 90% of everything our Belgian SMEs export is exported in a radius of 300 kilometres around Brussels. This is so despite the fact that they are allowed to operate in the European single market, where all obstacles to trade have been removed, more than ever, through the TTIP Treaty: there is the same currency, there are many more uniform standards within Europe. Nevertheless, our SMEs, which means more than 90% of our business fabric, are unable to transport more than 300 kilometres. And so these economists ask me: "If there is such a TTIP treaty, which will undoubtedly remove some obstacles, do you really believe that those Flemish, Belgian, Walloon, Brussels SMEs will enter the American market?" So, they say, positive profits can be there... and Mr Vandenput has mentioned some examples that are possible here and there.... but it will be very limited. Then there is something that is often forgotten in the debate. If obstacles are removed for our companies in the direction of the United States, obstacles will also be removed for companies from the United States to Europe and Belgium. This means that in our market I'm restricting myself to the Belgian market for a moment. Our SMEs will face competition from American companies and American SMEs. By the way, although with a strong simplification because it differs from sector to sector, in the United States an SME is defined as a company with 250 to 500 employees. With us, such companies are already medium-sized enterprises. With us, an SME is defined as a company with less than 50 employees. So, on our European and Belgian markets, we will notice a much stronger presence of the large American companies that are already here, but we will also get more SMEs here according to the American definition. Those economists tell me that it is not surprising that this could cost jobs in Belgium. Although this is only one study, to which the leader of the PS, Laurette Onkelinx, has already referred, in particular the Tufts University study in the United States, funded by American money, not with European money. In the worst case scenario, this study concludes that 66 000 jobs could be lost in Belgium. I think that should be enough to give our policy makers some anxiety and to order a study of their own. However, we do not see and get that study and that makes me a little suspicious. I'll sum up. It's hard to predict what the consequences will be. There's plenty of reason to be worried and order a study, but we're not getting one. In the best case scenario, a small profit is possible. The question is whether it is important enough, whether it is not dangerous to want to take the risk of entering such a process of TTIP. The second point I want to come to, and the name just fell, is Karel De Gucht. After all, he is one of the fathers, one of the initiators. He said at the start of this project that this will be a transatlantic internal market. This is not an ordinary trade agreement. Ordinary trade agreements are usually about tariffs. I will not say that everything is gone, but much is gone between Europe and the United States. They want to go much deeper now. They want to create an internal market. There has already been talk of standards. What concerns me is that these standards are no longer established in a democratically controlled system. We have built the European internal market and there is a Commission in which Commissioners are elected by political decision-making in each country. There is a European Parliament which monitors progress on the internal market. There are the Councils of Ministers and the Heads of State, in which politicians sit. They all follow this process of creating a European internal market. So that is democratically controlled with checks and balances. However, this trade agreement, ladies and gentlemen, will launch a democratically uncontrolled project. Those who have read it know, for example, that there will be a regulatory board, a kind of regulatory board of directors. This means that any measure which is of any importance to the functioning of that transatlantic internal market must be approved by the regulatory board. This includes the United States, but also representatives of large companies. This means that these rules are already established in a body which is not democratically elected and which is not subject to democratic control. It goes even further. That is the debate on ISDS or the international court system, which it has now become. It is not enough to give unelected economic interest groups control over the establishment of regulations and standards; it is also going to give them the opportunity, if they consider that certain standards are contrary to their interests, to prosecute the States for issuing regulations that run counter to their interests. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not idle fear. There have been hundreds of examples. For example, Vodafone attacked India because the Indian tax administration considers that Vodafone does not correctly apply the transfer pricing rules. Veolia from France started a trial in Egypt because the Egyptian government raised the Egyptian minimum wage by 3%. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a process which is being set in motion and which gives far too much power to economic interest groups. Those groups are even given the power to challenge regulations made by states if, for example, they could lead to a reduction in their profits. These are really very dangerous developments. What I fear most, ladies and gentlemen, is that we will have a clash between two social models. The European model contains certain collective mechanisms and is more focused on avoiding inequality and seeking as much equality as possible. On the other hand, there is the other model, the American model, which is more dependent on the individual and has little or no problems with large growing inequalities. I'm afraid that shock will cause problems. I am not alone in this fear, ladies and gentlemen. I have a few quotes that should particularly concern my fellow Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. For example, I read in documents of this movement that they are very concerned about the consequences and differences in labour law. I do not know if you know this, ladies and gentlemen, but in the United States there are, among the 51 states, states where the average wage in different sectors is half the wage in Germany and Belgium. I will not read all these quotes, but I will give you one example: the impact of TTIP on economic growth and employment does not outweigh all the potential risks of TTIP. I note that Mr Cd&V's colleagues here in the Chamber remain deaf to something that is really obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u164	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u165	I said I was afraid of the consequences of the collision between the two models. We have a model in which there are elements of collective interests. We seek equality. The example of this is our health system. By the way, our system is much cheaper than the American system. I am not sure, but I believe that the cost of the health system in Europe is on average 6% or 7%, and in the United States 12% or 13%. Our collective system is only half as expensive as that of the United States, but it is widely accessible, it is democratic and affordable for everyone. Their system isn't. What are the dangers to the health system? Shall I explain that first, then you can respond to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u166	I see here that there is a danger of commercialisation of education, health and culture. You're gonna have to explain that to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u167	I was talking about health.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u168	Explain to me that danger of commercialization!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u169	Mr President, I would like to comment on a previous point. Mr Van der Maelen, your reasoning is interesting. You say that some American states have only half the income of certain European countries and that we cannot, together with such states, be part of a free trade area because the distortion would be too great. If you go through that reasoning and look at Romania, where the wage is unfortunately EUR 2 or 3 per hour, then that is an argument to throw Romania out of the European Union's free trade area because the distortion is too great. Where is the consistency of your reasoning?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u170	We have included countries like Romania in the European Union. That was a deliberate political choice. After the fall of the Wall, we could not leave these countries to their economic fate. We have incorporated them into the European Union, and we have helped those countries through structural funds to start their economies, hoping that we can bring them to our level in the near future. There are sufficient win-win elements for both Romania and the other countries of the European Union. In the case of TTIP, we go purely for market/power relations. I can give another example with regard to the different standards.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u171	Mr Van der Maelen, there are other examples. We have a kind of free trade area with Turkey, allowing goods to be traded at a zero rate. The differences between Turkey and the European Union are much greater than between the EU and the various states of the US. Services cannot be freely traded, but goods, with the exception of agricultural products, are. Perhaps the ratio, especially for Belgium and Turkey, is 1 in 10. However, there is a free trade area between the two countries. Your argument about the difference that would be too great in relation to certain American states is not correct. I have set the example of Romania, and it will not be much different with Poland either. There is also Turkey.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u172	I answered that, didn't I?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u173	You have replied and rightly pointed out that this is about political union. Turkey is also in a different situation. What's the difference with America? I can give another example, the United Kingdom. Your political discourse is based on that. We are in a free trade area with many countries with which the differences are enormous. I recognize the problem. Somehow I find it a problem that people compete with us from a very weak social system without any customs duty. Actually, that's atypical. I find the example of the US striking, because they are between the two. They're much closer to us! You use that as an argument to keep them out of a free trade area. Your anti-American sentiment may get mixed up in this discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u174	The difference is that the countries that are with us in the European Union must comply with all European rules and standards. I will explain the difference between Turkey and the United States. Turkey must accept our standards or else they cannot sell their products here. Now, however, both blocks come together. Reference has already been made to Mr Defraigne. You should read the report and look at what Mr Defraigne said in our committee. I won't repeat it here again. What's gonna happen now, colleague? What are they trying to tell us? We are being told that in the event of a difference in standards in terms of occupational safety, pay, union freedom and so on, the two blocks will always go to the highest standard. The experience of other trade agreements in the past shows us that this is not possible; this is reflected in the first texts. A colleague has already said here that we are going to go to the mutual acceptance of standards. I am thinking of the example of the chlorine chickens. In Europe, measures must be taken to ensure that the chicken is safe from the rick to the fork. In the USA the eyes are squeezed closed, but at the very last moment the chicken is dipped in a chlorine bath. This may be equally healthy, I do not want to talk about it, but it is clear that the chlorine chicken will be cheaper than the European chicken that is being grown here. If these chickens are allowed on the transatlantic internal market, the result will be that European chicken farmers will say that this competition is unfair because their production costs are much higher. They will ask for lower standards for them as well. I am quoting this example now, but that will be done for all standards. Instead of harmonizing upwards, it will be found, under pressure from the business community, that harmonization is taking place downwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u175	It is a pity that I have not seen the debates in committee. Mr van der Maelen, you were able to make the same arguments in the 1980s when we talked about the liberalization of the internal market. The main defenders of that single market were Karel Van Miert and Jacques Delors. You are homesick at the time when all these discussions were held. At that time it was said that social security would be reduced by the liberalization of the internal market. The free market leads to prosperity in the long term. That's the essence of Adam Smith and John Stuart Mill's economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u176	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u177	I know you do not agree with that, Mr Hedebouw. This leads to an international division of labour. The great economist and first economist, Jan Tinbergen, said that international division of labour is a good thing. Eventually it will be produced where costs are lowest, while the other countries will be able to benefit from the fact that they produce. They will then have to buy production goods. They also get a market and so on. You are going against the essence of the way in which international trade has led to the most prosperous situation in world history, which we now know. What you want is for this situation to be reduced and for international trade to be regulated. This has also happened at European level. I was a Flemish Minister of Agriculture in the 1990s. At that time there was a whole debate about tomatoes from Spain and about the pig sector from the Eastern European countries, which came to compete with us. This occurs in all forms of international development of trade and of other division of labour. Mr van der Maelen, you want to completely reverse the clock here and develop a kind of retrograde reasoning against what has become the basis of our prosperity.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u178	Mr Van Rompuy, I will try to answer you very briefly. Then I will listen to the comments of the other Members. I'm trying to make it clear to you, but you're not listening exactly. What's the big difference? I noted earlier that the European internal market was a process led by politicians and democratically controlled, which allowed you to stand up for the tomato farmers here with us in your capacity as Flemish Minister for Agriculture. That is the European system, to create the internal market. Now we find ourselves in a system where, once a government moves a foot, it has to fight an ISDS or an ICS. Now we find ourselves in a situation where any new regulation that Europe wants to impose must be submitted to the regulatory board, in which large American companies are located. That is the anti-democratic aspect. I have just said that I will not approve the proposal, because it is an adaptation of democratic decision-making, on which we must all agree first, in Europe, in Belgium, in Parliament. That is the difference: one internal market process is democratically supervised, while the other cannot be controlled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u179	Mr Van Rompuy, I agree with you. But I would add, Mr Van der Maelen, that you are again demonstrating with the chlorinated chicken. I don't know how to tell you: it's not about chlorinated chickens. I understand you don't have the same opinion. I listened to what you said, but, at some point, you come back to fantasies. Like Mr. Van Rompuy and you said it, what we're talking about today,... It's true that there was a bit of bruhaha when I used the formula. I admit I caused it a little bit. What I wanted to say, on the basis of Pascal Lamy's comments, is that we are no longer in the same negotiating world at all. These are other international agreements. The ongoing negotiations for TTIP focus on standards. I said in the rostrum that there is no question of lowering standards at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u180	But this will happen! It's inevitable!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u181	You're the one who said it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u182	It is no longer politics but the regulatory board that will decide whether or not you can maintain a standard. I tell you, but you know this better than I do: every sector, every product for which there is a difference in production costs will be under pressure because there is a difference in standards. In Belgium, for example, the pressure will come from the fact that the conditions of competition are not equal and we will insist on changing the regulation downwards so as to give us the same position in the competition with an American competitor. That's what's gonna happen. I'm not making it up!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u183	Mr van der Maelen, I have just mentioned the chlorine chicken in my speech. I said that Article 8 of the mandate, which was also given to the previous Belgian Government, clearly states that the EU and the Member States will not accept any reduction in European standards of protection. It's in there. If you say that this is not true, I do not know what mandate you have approved. That is what it says, and we are counting on the European Commission to accept it, otherwise the Treaty will not be approved.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u184	I would like to speak in the debate, since Mr. Van Rompuy apostrophe me. I agree with you in your reasoning, Mr. Van Rompuy. I follow your reasoning. You say that we do the same in the European Union, in our own market. On that point, I agree with you, but I do not agree with your assessment of the single market, which has taught us. That's what this is about. Europe has been in an economic crisis since 2008 and no one is asking why. Why is the European Union in crisis? Because of the competition down. Because of the pressure on all wages in Europe. Because of the pressure that makes 22 million people unemployed in Europe. You see as a practical, ideological and economic achievement the fact that the European Union and its single market have brought happiness to people. I do not agree with you on this point. What's going to happen with the TTIP? We're going to go even further in globalization. These are the strongest, namely the companies that have the least production costs, which are the most globalized, which are the least respectful – the example of chicken has been given, but hundreds of such examples could be found – which will put pressure down, as Mr. Van der Maelen. Contrary to what you say, it's not going to make people happy. This will bring the happiness of some monopolies that will be able to control the whole market. It can be seen in all economic sectors. The European Union is already failing us and we will continue in this direction by allowing TTIP to further globalise the two monopolistic economies of Europe and the United States of America by unacceptable social dumping.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u185	I would like to make the following point to Mr Van Hees. With 8% of the world's population, with 25% of the world's GDP, the European continent, the European Union, represents 50% of all social expenditure. I'm proud of that, and I need it to stay. No other continent is doing that to us. That is where we demand the merit of having sometimes fought difficult battles. It is sometimes claimed that the socialists have had the majority in the European Union, but the socialists have never had the majority in the European Union. However, we were part of sometimes large minorities. For the sake of Mr Vandenput, I would like to admit that if we fail to harmonise standards upwards and since we do not accept a reduction in European standards, we will recognize their standards and they will recognize ours. I'd like to believe that. But when Europe makes higher demands on companies and products, European industry will come up with a complaint that it is being disabled on the European market by European regulation, while US products are at a lower price thanks to lower standards over there. Then one will see the leveling down. Is that likely? Yes, because that is how the free market works. I would like to talk about the health sector, and I am looking at the CD&V MEPs. I said earlier that, overall, our system is more efficient and democratic, thus giving disadvantaged people more access to health care. We've been asked what's going on with the commercialization. Commercialisation is clearly much larger and much stronger in the United States. Perhaps you do not know, but in the negotiations around TTIP, the US pharmaceutical industry is exerting pressure on Europe for longer protection of patents. In other words, in the United States it takes much longer for a medicine to become a generic medicine. There are examples of this. Of the penultimate product that has become generic in Belgium, the consumer price has fallen by 85%. This meant savings of EUR 16 million for social security. So there is twice a profit, because the consumer pays only 15% of the previous amount and social security saves EUR 16 million. Well, if the United States gets what it wants for the pharmaceutical industry, then the patents on medicines will be protected for longer. Patients will therefore have to pay the high price longer and social security will have to contribute longer. Let me give you another example. Under pressure from the pharmaceutical industry, the United States demands participation in pricing and in the terms of reimbursement of our medicines. For example, the National Intermutualist College, in which all major sickness funds are represented, is concerned about this. That college requires an explicit exclusion from current and future services of general interest. We have just discussed the European internal market. Indeed, when there were socialists in the government, Belgium acquired and forced that services of general interest in the health sector were excluded from the internal market regime. Now, in the TTIP negotiations, the Americans are demanding that such a provision be included. Once again, we will see a deterioration in our health care system, which is only half as expensive and more democratic as that of the United States and also gives access to disadvantaged people. These achievements are undermined by the Free Trade Agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u186	Mrs Smaers asked to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u187	Mr van der Maelen, I have long doubted whether I would interrupt you, but I now feel obliged to do so. After all, I cannot hear so much populist talk about the free trade agreement. I fully agree that there are legitimate concerns about the ongoing negotiations, but they have been expressed by all the majority parties. These are ongoing negotiations, for which a clear mandate has been given. Health care and public services are excluded from the negotiating mandate. The danger of privatisation of our health care is useless, because there is no such danger. This is a precondition in the context of the negotiating mandate. If infringements were to occur, you will know from everyone, including the majority, that the negotiations will not come to a successful conclusion. It is a precondition for the negotiations. There is therefore no point in staying on this issue. The majority have also expressed these concerns and they are in the negotiating mandate. I'll come back to the pharmaceutical industry because you keep quoting it. I assume you cannot oppose this from a socialist party, which also stands up for as many jobs as possible, including in our region. After all, I would like to point out that the American pharmaceutical industry, and I come from the Kempen, so I know what I'm talking about, with Janssen Pharmaceutica and Johnson & Johnson, is responsible for a lot of jobs in our region. It's not about hundreds, it's about thousands of jobs. A lot of Belgians, Flemings and Walen get a good job there. It is not just about the pharmaceutical sector, but also about many other sectors. Let me give you another example that is not so far from my hometown: Nike. That's a very big American company that offers 4,000 jobs, including a lot of low-skilled jobs. Who could be against more job creation and more opportunities for such players? After all, it is also about reducing mutual costs. Who is opposed to companies no longer having to go through the same procedures twice, once in Europe and once in America, in order to achieve the same approval of a medicine? This is only a good cost-effective measure. I can't imagine anyone making it a problem to come up with such cost gains. These are many important challenges in the Free Trade Agreement. I haven't heard that today. These elements may also be taken into account in the debate. I agree with all the legitimate concerns expressed, including by the majority. However, we are only at a negotiating stage. Concerns shall be taken into account. I do not think it is correct that the debate does not mention a number of opportunities which undoubtedly exist for all our employees, for every Belgian. We are all proud of our social security, but it can only be achieved if added value is first created by a lot of jobs. This is another aspect that we must not lose sight of here. That is the point I wanted to make in the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u188	Mr President, I would like to echo what my colleague said that health care is outside the scope of the mandate. As far as medicines are concerned, the system of reimbursement of medicines remains a national competence of the Member States and does not fall under TTIP. I also refer to Cecilia Malmström's statement on this matter in the Walloon Parliament. She has clearly repeated that nothing will change with regard to the reimbursement of medicines. You also mention the issue of generic medicines. In this respect, the US and the EU are in the process of increasing the number of generic medicines and guaranteeing their quality, which would benefit patients in the US and in the EU. I'd like to come back to your point just now, about that regulatory cooperation body. You say you don't invent anything. Yes, Mr Van der Maelen, you do. You have repeated three times that they are going to decide, but that is an advisory body. This is an advisory body in which US and EU experts will sit together to effectively review this regulatory cooperation and to formulate opinions on it. It is about advice; this means that it can lead to agreements, but it may also lead to decisions being taken to allow both systems to exist side by side. This may often be the case for Europe. You quoted the example of the chlorine chickens. Europe has consistently taken the position that the regulatory conditions, such as a ban on growth agents, hormone meat, the process for GMOs, are not part of the TTIP negotiations. So, please, let us talk about this a little bit balanced.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u189	Mr President, Mr Van der Maelen, there is often talk of right-wing populism, but I now hear left-wing populism. You scare the people a la Hedebouw. You frighten people of international trade, you give the impression that standards of social security and health are laid down in small committees at undemocratic super-level or world level, that we are going to intervene in our health insurance and that social security will be affected. I find that weird for someone from a party who's run the country for 25 years. The whole internal market is also the credit of Jacques Delors and Karel Van Miert. I have also been in the European Parliament for a while, when there was also discussion about standards, about environmental standards and about consumer standards. The discussion then also focused on the question of where to place the standards, and solutions have always been found in terms of quality. You are not like Mr Hedebouw, who really wants to close all borders. Mr Hedebouw, you are a communist. You're against the European Union, aren't you? You think that the countries should become independent again, that customs borders should be restored and that investment should be nationalized because you are against private investment. Mr van der Maelen, as a democratic socialist, you have created the European Union with its international development. In France, aren't socialists in power? They're negotiating on that, too. I hear very different noises from France than what you bring here. You give the impression that these TTIP agreements will undermine social security, wages, consumer protection and the environment, while it will be the strength of the change in international development... [[Rumor on some banks]] To me those are not slogans, to me that is reality. This change will be further stimulated and will lead to greater prosperity. Your model is a model in which international development is slowed down. Griet Smaers told me. The prosperity we now have is due to the foreign investment that came in the 1960s, through the development of the customs union and the internal market, through the euro. There was also a need to develop standards between Member States. Trade was free and companies were sometimes faced with severe competition. You are now questioning this model because you happen to have entered the opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u190	Mr President, I would like to speak for a small personal fact. Since Mr. Van Rompuy wants the debate, he'll get it! Mr Van Rompuy, the difference is that you consider the question of the market to be something neutral; just a neutral geographical, political and economic space. I am not asking for countries to fall back on themselves. I'm not in favour of a return to the national. I know that this is a debate within the left as well as on the right. To the PTB-GO! We are not at all for a return to the national fact. On the other hand, I do not share with you the desire that the creation of a free market, based solely on private property, will win the markets to the strongest companies. This is what happens in a capitalist economy as in Europe and the United States. To answer my colleague, I do not wonder why American companies are creating jobs. I wonder why we have regions with unemployment rates of 10, 15 or 20 per cent, when so much wealth is being produced today in Europe and the United States. We ask ourselves different questions from different points of view, Mr Van Rompuy. Competition between the different markets puts downward pressure on people's working conditions and on the quality of production. This downward pressure will be reinforced by signing the TTIP. On this point, Mr Van der Maelen is absolutely right, but I am, of course, effectively going on to the European Union and social dumping. Many workers and servants come here to work at dumped prices. That is the Europe we are building today. And that's not my Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u191	Mr President, I should like to say that I am astonished at the way in which some people neglect the danger to our health care, particularly our particular organisation, including through mutual societies. I recall that not so long ago, at European level, we had to fight with other European entities to keep our model, which was challenged by private insurance. We have been close to not being able to maintain protection, which precisely allows us to maintain strong regulation for the benefit of patients. This has been the subject of intense discussions with the European Commission, private insurance and mutual societies, etc. Can you imagine for a second that, if we do not take care of it, with regard to the competition and deregulation arguments that will be put on the table, particularly by the United States, we can still maintain such a system? That is why not only the left, but all the mutualities, Mrs Smaers, have asked that we be very clear on the subject, and you are not in the resolution you are tabling. Be clearer in the resolution and we will vote with you on some elements of the resolution. But you are neglecting a potential danger that seriously threatens the future of health care in a country like Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u192	I would like to make a little clarification in the light of Mr Hedebouw's remarks, because he is always talking about big companies, about big capitalism. Indeed, there are big companies and great capitalism. In addition to this, there are more and more small businesses, independents, TPEs, SMEs. It is these companies that are gaining market share. Large companies are losing them. So, in the economic landscape, things have to be put into perspective. Large firms have fewer and fewer market shares, whereas small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) have fewer and fewer market shares.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u193	Mr President, I would like to reply to Mrs Onkelinx's speech. I have already said that health care and public services are excluded from the mandate. That is why the majority is calling once again for this in a resolution and once again for this concern. If that were to come into the negotiations after all, which is not possible, because it is excluded from the mandate, there would be no agreement either. That concern is there. I don't understand why you keep making such a big deal about that. It's not part of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u194	Mr President, we can already make a summary of the discussion. Mr van der Maelen, you are putting forward various arguments against the agreement. As Mr Smaers said earlier, public services and health care are not included. You say that the real problem is the difference in prosperity between the United States and us. I have given the counter-argument that there are masses of free trade agreements where the difference is even greater. And then we come to the ultimate question. When I hear you, that would actually be an argument to say that we should not enter into free trade agreements with African countries, because by definition the standards are much lower there. If I follow your argument and say that there is a big difference in products and in prosperity, then you would not enter into free trade agreements with the African countries or there would be no reduction in tariffs, when everyone agrees that, in order to remove Africa, free trade with Europe is an important dimension, as well as development cooperation. If I apply your argument to other situations, it doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u195	Colleague, if I understand you correctly, you are comparing the United States with a developing country. You say that a trade agreement between the United States and Europe is the same as...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u196	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u197	You did say that. This is a completely different situation. For me, a free trade agreement between Belgium, Europe and a developing country is an agreement aimed at ensuring that products produced in those countries can and can be placed on our European markets, even more so. But if we conclude a free trade agreement with equal partners like the United States, I do not want a country that is as strong as we are to be favoured. It should not be disadvantaged; the rules should be the same for everyone, but there is a risk that this will not be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u198	Mr Van der Maelen, I simply fill out your argument.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u199	I have not even answered Mrs Smaers' question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u200	Let us each take turns talking, otherwise it will become a little unclear. I'll fill out your argument. You use different arguments to indicate that the US is not doing well. I'll neutralize each of your arguments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u201	You think so!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u202	Let me finish. Public services cannot be the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u203	I didn't say anything about public services.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u204	Health care cannot be the problem either, nor can it be the difference in prosperity. You then invented a new problem, in particular the different product standards. Product standards in Africa or other continents are different from those in Europe, yet free trade agreements exist or lower tariffs are sought. So these different product standards cannot be the problem either. Now you come up with your last argument, the unequivalence. You use arguments and they are neutralized, and so you must formulate a counter-argument for every point, but you must not come forward with statements like I would compare Africa with the US. You must present analytical arguments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u205	Mr Claerhout, Mr Smaers and Mr Bogaert spoke here about health care and then rubbed left-wing populism on me. I'd be worried about you, too, if I were you. Now you oblige me to read the Belgian notice of 22 February 2016, which reads as follows: "That is why the Belgian sickness funds argue that there should also be an explicit exclusion from current and future services of general interest," the NIC states. These areas are already excluded from the rules of the internal market within European legislation, a line which must be pursued coherently in the free trade agreements. Only by explicit exclusion can the exclusive competence of the Member States to formulate their health policies be safeguarded. Without such exclusion, commercial players risk access to a service sector based on solidarity, accessibility and affordability. So that's what you call left-wing populism? I'll tell the CM they're left-wing populists. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u206	Out of the question? You hope that, you wish that. But it's not out of the question. Then why are they still asking after February 22? That you suspect me of not knowing the file, I can still understand that, but that you suspect the CM of that, I'll tell them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u207	If there are international developments that are frightened by trade unions, health insurance funds, employers, consumer organisations or other potential interest groups, it is normal that they wish to clarify their views, and warn, inter alia, of commercialisation. The question is, is that on the table? I have not followed the discussions, but I trust Mrs Claerhout, Mrs Smaers, Mr Miller and Mr Vandenput, who have been through the discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u208	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u209	Yes, Mr Bonte, you are also a left-wing populist when it comes to fingerprints and radicalisation, so I would advise you to stay absent from the debate. Mr van der Maelen, you are calling into question the need to conclude international trade agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u210	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u211	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u212	Mrs Temmerman, if you had followed Karel Van Miert, who was your godfather, more often, your group would probably have been stronger here. The social market economy goes hand in hand with competition in the internal market. That is the basis of prosperity. That is the essence, and you are now questioning it. The American market is very closed, I don't know if you know. We are in danger of missing a huge opportunity. The Americans are much easier to export here than we are to there. Their market is very closed. It would be a good thing if we could open them up and obtain guarantees on services, among other things. It is normal that warnings should be issued. When Community agreements are concluded, the Flemish Movement also warns about that and so on. (Protests from Mrs Temmerman) Mrs. Temmerman, walk behind Rudy De Leeuw and behind the FGTB. You'll get far with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u213	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to repeat the first two points I have made. The first point is that the benefits of such an agreement are very doubtful. Best case scenario, they're minimal. It is therefore not wise to take the risk of continuing this process. I come to my second conclusion, because it is not Mr Bogaert who has to draw conclusions from what I am saying. Nothing good can come from the clash between the American model and the European social model. Those models are too different. You want to create a transatlantic internal market, such as the European internal market, but without the guarantees given by the presence of democratically elected and controlled decision-makers. You leave it far too much to the market. I come to my final point. Ladies and gentlemen, if we say that we are against TTIP, against the bilateral agreement between the US and Europe, then we are not stupid or naive. We are aware that we are a small country, that we export at least 70% of everything we make and that we therefore have to live off exports. Mr Defraigne was, however, wrongly quoted here earlier by Mr Miller. Mr Miller has just said that Pierre Defraigne has advocated a multilateral approach in our committee. That's not true. In our committee, Pierre Defraigne has advocated a pluralistic approach. He said that it would be unwise to organise world trade on the basis of bilateral agreements. We are far better off trying to build an international trading system with a coalition of countries that want to do so, by definition, in the first place a large number of countries from the G20. If we do it through bilateral agreements, we will create tensions between the blocs in the world. This will not serve global peace and stability. I suggest that you read Pierre Defraigne, the former Head of Cabinet of Pascal Lamy and a man who has worked for years in the European Commission at the Directorate-General for Trade, DG Trade. He knows what he's talking about. The United States and Europe, the two continents leading the WTO, felt that together, rich and less wealthy, large and small, we should all develop a world trade system. Unfortunately, that's not possible right now. It is then the wrong path to make only bilateral agreements between Europe and the US. I agree with Pierre Defraigne. Plural agreements must be established. This gives us the best guarantee of the protection of our country's interests. That also gives us the best guarantee for a safe and stable world.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u214	Mr Van der Maelen, just one comment. You said the thing and its opposite in closing. You yourself say that Mr Defraigne explained that it was not possible to reach an agreement with all the parties, that the Doha Round was stopped, etc.; and then you say that this is where you have to go. That is what Mr Defraigne said: we must not do so on the basis of bilateral agreements. Rather, I have the feeling that we have an interest in having a bilateral agreement between the European Union and the United States and that through it we will reach a multilateral agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u215	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u216	That is not necessary, Mr Van der Maelen. We just don't have the same reading, that's all.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u217	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u218	I claim that this was Mr Defraigne's thought.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u219	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will bounce back on what Mr Miller has said and what Mr Miller has said. Van der Maelen replied. If we are negotiating a free trade agreement between Europe and the United States today, it is because the multilateral investment agreement - this false friend who did not want us to do good - has seen his negotiation suspended and then disappeared. It is because this desire for global liberalization has stopped that the United States and Europe, the best friends of trade, have begun to negotiate a trade agreement. Why, Mr. Miller? The WTO is a multilateral global organization with many participants, including the countries of the South. At the time, in the WTO, countries of the South formed a blocking minority that was capable of counterweighting the United States, Europe and, in general, developed countries. That is why the United States and Europe have entered into this negotiation, with a desire to impose their standards on the rest of the world. I do not think it is in this way that we can hope for a balanced global governance between the North and the South. I thank Mr. Van der Maelen, chairman of the Committee on External Relations, for organizing this debate. Few unnegotiated and even less signed or ratified subjects have been the subject, as here, of an in-depth democratic debate, serene – not always, Mr Miller – but interesting, even before these provisions are signed, ratified and voted. The Greens have always opposed the Transatlantic Treaty since the mandate was granted on 14 June 2013. We have opposed this at European, federal, Walloon, Brussels and German-speaking regional levels, and this has not yet been said at the municipal level. Many communal motions were voted on in the municipal councils of Wallonia and Brussels, often at the initiative of Ecolo. I am glad to see that many parties have seen their position evolve, and that is so much better. We will have to be the most numerous to prevent this treaty from being negotiated, then signed and eventually ratified. Rarely will a treaty have caused such ink to flow into civil society. I am in my 51st debate on TTIP. I participated in debates in the communal councils, in associations, in trade unions, in employers' associations, in parishes and in parliamentary fora. I would remind you that this is a treaty that has not yet been signed, which has not yet been negotiated and which has not yet been ratified. Citizens' rejection is massive and obvious. But we must also count in Belgium with the organised society that has something to say. Trade unions, mutual societies, representatives of the middle classes are opposed to TTIP. This is an unprecedented fact! Why is Ecolo-Groen opposed to TTIP? Firstly, in our view, this project runs counter to the Greens from all over Europe project for the European Union. Indeed, we promote a local economy that can feed locally. The question of agriculture arises here, of course. We want to promote short circuits. In other words, we want the products we consume to be manufactured as close as possible to us. The distance between the United States and Europe is at least 6,000 kilometres. Secondly, we want to promote the reduction of CO2 emissions. It is a commitment that our country and most of the countries around the world have made in Paris. The objective is to reduce pollutant emissions and greenhouse gases, in particular CO2. From the moment that a treaty aims to intensify world trade between the two shores of the Atlantic – this applies both to TTIP and to CETA – one can expect to see an increase in CO2 consumption by transport. Moreover – and this is a constant in view of the statements made by BUSINESSEUROPE before this House – from the moment the European Union enters into a transatlantic treaty with the United States, one of the objectives is to import massively fossil fuels manufactured in the United States according to hydraulic fracturing. This is contrary not only to the objectives of COP21 aimed at reducing fossil energy consumption and, in doing so, greenhouse gas emissions, but is also contrary to the EU's Europe 2020 strategy, which aims to provide the EU with a robust economy based on energy savings and the promotion of renewable energy. If tomorrow, in Zeebrugge or in another European port, these shale gases and oiles come massively, produced according to hydraulic fracturing, destructive of the environment and of both surface and underground water in the United States, it is also destructive of jobs and the objective of reducing CO2 emissions and promoting renewable energy at European level. I come to my third point. TTIP is contrary to the future of the European Union. We have an opportunity in other committees to discuss the future of the European Union. On the one hand, there are those who, like the British, believe that the European Union should only be a market. On the other hand, there are Belgium and some other European countries, including the other five founders, which believe that Europe must be federal and a political project. The challenge for the European Union is its deepening. It is the idea that, beyond a market, we also have standards, projects. For us, the Greens, two interesting projects that the European Union could acquire, it is a minimum wage to combat social dumping, which Mr Gilkinet often talks about, but also an ISOC, a global tax on business income with a minimum. This is a European project! It is a deepening of the European market. What are we doing? We are expanding the European market to the United States, which is already not working well and which is a source of poverty and a host of environmental, social and other problems. We are limited to the expansion of this single market in the United States. As Mr Defraigne said in our committee, this is not the enlargement of the European Union to the United States. Otherwise, the United States, beyond the creation of the market, should transpose the entire acquis communautaire into its law. No, no, the objective of the Transatlantic Treaty is profoundly different. We're expanding the market, but we're not deepening it. The European market will thus become, together with the United States, a huge market but without the standards that we need to regulate it. Colleagues, if liberalisation without regulation creates employment, that would be true. This is what the European Union has been doing for more than 30 or 35 years. Mrs Smaers, in your speech you referred to the various American companies in Campine or elsewhere. You quoted Johnson & Johnson and Nike. In Walloon Brabant, there is GSK which is an important American company. Mr. Cheron won't contradict me. These American companies are already here, because the European market is attractive. Five hundred million potential consumers, a substantial part of which is in the middle class, with high incomes. That's why these American companies are here today. That is why, tomorrow, Chinese or Indian companies will come to our home. Not because we have a free trade treaty with these companies, but because we are the world market; because we Europeans, even with our standards, are interesting because it is to us that these American or other companies want to sell products. We do not need to break down our social and environmental standards to be able to have these businesses on our soil, or to keep them, because we are a strong market. We must be proud as Europeans to have these social and environmental standards in parallel with these incredible consumers for these companies. What is this TTIP? It is a trade agreement, which has a political objective, even though it is an economic agreement. He wants to give an advantage to the investor who, in fact, is a company. An advantage over who? Simply about citizens, and this through two mechanisms: first, private arbitration, the ISDS clause, which became the ICS; and second, regulatory cooperation. First of all, I come back to the system of private arbitration and ISDS. Both Mr Reynders and Mrs Malmström are right, as are some colleagues in the majority: the TTIP, if negotiated, signed and ratified, will not transform our economy, nor will it transform all our standards, our laws, our regulations, our European directives overnight. But with these two mechanisms of private arbitration and regulatory cooperation, the TTIP will gradually plan the standards we have patiently constructed or the future standards we may be considering. By what mechanisms? Knowing that a social and environmental rule could have an impact on the expected profits for an investor, the state or the federated entity, as well as the European Union or the United States, could say "if I take this standard, I risk being attacked before a private arbitral tribunal and, therefore, have to either review my standard or pay colossal fines". The private arbitration system, whether through the old fully arbitral system or through the International Court of Arbitration, will have a preventive effect for fear of panic of the federated entities and the states of the European Union to legislate in the direction of regulation and protection of both consumers and the environment and workers. Regulatory cooperation is another phenomenon. Of course the states of the European Union and the United States will be able to continue to legislate. But if you consult with your trading partner, the European Union, the United States, before taking a standard, to check whether it meets investor protection objectives, inevitably, future standards will systematically go in the same direction and focus on the economic interests of the big multinationals, who are committed to protecting their investments and not protecting the health of workers, the health of citizens and the environment. A candidate in the US presidential election, in any case a nomination contestant, Ms Hillary Clinton, spoke about TTIP as well as economic NATO. It is not a NATO that we need, but a Europe: an economic Europe, a social Europe, an environmental Europe. The problem of the European Union today, but also of its Member States and Regions, and in particular in Wallonia and Brussels, is the creation of jobs. What TTIP promises is wealth creation. According to the Commission's study, EUR 545 per household. But the creation of wealth, we do. The European Union's GDP is increasing every year. The problem is the distribution of this wealth created among the citizens, and that an economic activity can automatically create employment. Today, the European Union, after decades of European integration, despite the opening of the market, has not created any jobs. Mergers and acquisitions of companies, which are essentially multinational, have made it possible to destroy employment. However, the challenge for the European Union is to create jobs, to create localised economic activity, which creates localised employment. We have tabled a single amendment which is not ideological, but which aims to inform the parliamentary debate. There is a new provision in the Lisbon Treaty in Article 218 on the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This Article 218 allows any State, therefore Belgium, to ask the Court of Justice of the European Union for an opinion on a text which is not yet signed but which is consolidated. One day, in the event of an agreement, the TTIP will be a consolidated text which can be the subject of an opinion of the European Court of Justice if Belgium so requests. It is not a question of saying a priori that it will be contrary to European law, to the European Convention on Human Rights, because, of course, a large number of actors consider that the arbitral system is contrary to fundamental rights, since it favours multinational companies over citizens and the environment. However, let us admit that this is not the case! Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, have it checked by a neutral body, a recognised body, a legal body recognised by all, namely the European Court of Justice! That is the point of the amendment. De Vriendt and I have tabled and that the Ecolo-Groen Group is proposing: to ask for an opinion, something that the Lisbon Treaty allows you to do. We have not talked much about CETA, but it is also an element of our discussion, since some of the nine resolutions presented today talk about the treaty with Canada. The treaty with Canada has been negotiated and the text is being reread. I heard Mrs Onkelinx say that the Regions, in any case the Walloon Region, would oppose it as it stood. The text is negotiated, Mrs Onkelinx. I would therefore urge you to ask your regional colleagues to refuse what is called in legal language the ius tractati to Mr Reynders. The latter will be called upon, in the coming weeks, to sign this treaty with Canada. That Mr. Magnette and Mr. Vervoort in Brussels do not give this ius tractati to Mr. Reynders so that he cannot sign, on behalf of Belgium and its federated entities, the treaty with Canada. I will conclude with two thoughts. If the TTIP were the bright future so boasted by the colleagues of the majority, then the consolidated text that we are invited to read in a safe room at Foreign Affairs would not be there. He would be here and we could get to know him. If colleagues in the majority were not afraid of the content of the text, it would be open to the public and parliamentarians, to civil society. Today, unfortunately, this text is locked in a safe. Previous agreements have been negotiated at length and hard. Both the AMI and the ACTA Treaty, which aimed to combat counterfeiting at the international level and seriously contravened the fundamental principle of respect for privacy, were discussed. These two agreements are stillborn. Like TTIP, these are "Dracula" agreements. Dracula is a vampire who sucks blood. I believe that TTIP sucks the blood of our SMEs, our citizens and the energy of the European Union. As soon as reality is brought to light, as today and in many citizen meetings, we see this vampire dying. Let's kill TTIP and make Europe live!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u220	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, who said about TTIP: "I'm worried"?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u221	Richard Miller!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u222	Richard Miller! Excellent answer from Mr Laaouej! That's what he was forced to say. I think the MR should close the ranks. When Mr. Miller is put forward, he starts to cast doubt. If a liberal and right-wing party like the MR starts to worry about TTIP, what about the others?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u223	I won't be very long, Mr. President. Mr Van Hees, obviously it was a rhetorical trick. I said, "I'm worried" so everyone will listen to me then express the liberal word.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u224	I will not surprise you – and you could read our motions for resolutions in this regard – by telling you that TTIP or CETA are not really our cup of tea. Indeed, these free trade treaties pose a threat both to our social achievements and to health and environmental standards and, ultimately, to our democratic rights. These are powerful levers that European and US governments want to put in the hands of multinationals to enable them to blow up regulations, improve their competitive position and earn profits. Let us remember that 850 million people are affected by this treaty. What are the problems of this treaty? First, its social, environmental and health consequences. In concrete terms, these two treaties threaten labour rights, collective agreements, public services, opportunities to regulate public procurement, our health system, our social protection system. Mutualities have also recently sounded alarms, as these treaties call into question the ability of States to decide how they organize and manage compulsory health insurance and supplementary insurance. At the environmental level, these treaties can be used by fossil industry multinationals to protect their interests and prevent the energy transition. They also open the door to shale gas in Europe. If we were consistent with the commitments made at COP21, that would already be enough to bury the TTIP. There is also this discussion on chlorinated chicken, beef with hormones, GMOs. We're told it's intoxicated from the world of associatives. When we go to the European Union's "propaganda" website about this, the FAQ, we are told that there is no problem, that there is no risk. We are told, for example, that hormone-fed beef is banned in the European Union and that TTIP will not change it. You have to believe them on your word! On GMOs, it is not said that this is prohibited, but it is said that the European rules on GMOs will not be amended. I'll take note. The European Union said that the rules on GMOs would not be amended. To dance the tango, you have to be two but, here, the second partner is the United States. Those who tell us that there will be no problem for GMOs should not only be interested in what the European Union is saying, but also in what the United States is saying. I don't hear anyone from the majority talking about the US position on GMOs. What is their position? For example, I quote Republican Senator John Thune: "It will be difficult to pass TTIP, unless we offer guarantees to American farmers on the authorisation of biotechnological products." What are biotechnology products in agriculture? These are, for example, GMOs. What do we read in the media no later than yesterday? Disagreement between the United States and Europe on GMOs. Can you hear him? I take note of the European position, but perhaps the American position should also be taken into account. In that arm of fire, who's gonna win? You're telling us there's no problem with GMOs. Look at the press, and you will see exactly the opposite: big problem on GMOs. Let us imagine that this is not going to happen; then it is entirely possible in the regulatory cooperation mechanism, later, to open the door to GMOs. Even where the supporters of TTIP seem to have a strong and unshakeable position, we dig a bit, we go see a bit behind the varnish, and we realize that all the theories of the majority are collapsing. I'm not going to repeat what I've already told Mr. Miller. The UCM says the Transatlantic Treaty is very dangerous. I am pleased that the UCM is aware, which unfortunately does not happen often enough, that the interests of SMEs and multinationals are not the same. I am pleased to see that the UCM is becoming aware of this reality. When I confronted Mr Miller with the UCM's position against TTIP, he replied that it was before, that guarantees had now been taken in favour of SMEs, and that it was going to be better. Mr Miller, have you managed to convince the UCM to change its position? I haven't seen anything like that lately. You're not finished, but I think it's gonna be hard, Mr. Miller. You'll need a lot of very valid arguments. I'm not sure the ones you've developed here will be enough to convince them. That was a little medium! The problems of democracy are also at stake in this Treaty. How is power transferred to multinationals? There are two mechanisms in particular: the regulatory cooperation mechanism, which I have just mentioned on GMOs, and the arbitration courts. It is one of the victories of the citizens' movement to have pushed back the negotiators on certain points, for example on the famous ISDS which was to withdraw power from the judiciary for the benefit of private courts. It is a victory, but it is still very limited since all we have done is to replace one system with another which is no better: the ICS. The German judiciary strongly opposed both ISDS and its replacement. They say that these are special courts, that this is the wrong way to guarantee certainty and legal certainty. They say that "the Commission's proposal also raises serious concerns about the independence of judges, ranging from lack of financial independence to the ambiguity of the selection criteria". Their statement states that "in this context, the ICS looks more like a permanent arbitration tribunal than an international court". The third major problem with this Treaty is transparency. This transparency was nothing at first. Again, the citizen movement has managed, through mobilization, to gain some victories, but these are still very limited because transparency is still very homeopathic. When we read in the majority resolution that the majority is committed to transparency in TTIP, I do not see how it can be satisfied with the current situation. We had a debate in committee, which prompted me to go to this famous reading room, which was presented to us as the miracle of transparency. What a miracle, indeed! A few Members are allowed access to these texts while there are 850 million people who are deprived of them, yet they are affected by their daily lives. Mr Flahaux went there; that's very good! I went there before him. If I hadn't been there, I wonder if he would have gone there! Two beaches of two hours a week. It is mandatory to go alone, without collaborators, without specialists to help us read or understand all the traps hidden in these texts. We go there naked, in any case without a dictionary, without internet access, without a computer, without reference documents. There was no MP, but a lady was in charge of constantly monitoring us. We couldn't even get to the bathroom. I'm telling you about my experience, Mr. Flahaux. Mr. Miller can confirm this since he was also present. A lady was constantly watching us. It was impossible to get out of the room. The documents are stored in a safe. It is also not possible to have a notepad. Colour sheets have been given to us to distinguish them well. The few Members who went to consult these documents are the absurd proof that transparency is not real. But the worst part is the document that we have to sign and in which we commit ourselves not to divulge anything of what we have read. In terms of democratic debate, it is extraordinary! We put all the brakes on us to prevent us from actually accessing these documents. And once all the dams have been crossed and a questionable element has been found, we cannot use it because we signed this document. The question is what we want to hide. If we had nothing to hide, why wouldn't there be total transparency? If this TTIP is so wonderful, why not share this text with the 850 million people who will benefit from it, who will see their lives change fundamentally and who will live in a haven of happiness? Why not tell them the good news by posting the text on the internet? We can ask ourselves the question. While 850 million people do not have access to the Treaty and the consolidated text, others have access to it and even have significant means of exerting pressure. I'm talking about the employers lobbyists. Of the 560 lobbyists with which European officials have discussed, 520 are important employers lobbyists. In other words, 92% of the lobbyists met belong to large multinationals and only 4% belong to democratic consumer, environmental and other associations. So those who represent the 850 million citizens were entitled to 4% of the meetings and the 1% of the richest people who represent the multinationals were entitled to 92% of the meetings. It sets the tone. One point I would like to touch on is the question of CETA, which is more advanced than TTIP. The CETA is a bit of a demonstration by the absurd that the majority's resolution is cat pee, it's wind. Your majority resolution states that foreign investors should not be discriminated against or treated in favour of domestic investors. As I explained, the ISDS system does not guarantee this non-discrimination. In your resolution, you want the exclusion from the negotiating field of public services, such as health, social services, social security systems, education and water supply. But they are not excluded from CETA! The proof is that some countries have specifically put their national social security services on the list of exemptions to the Treaty. But why would they have done so if the CETA Treaty did not threaten these public services? One more example. You say in your resolution that we must ensure that regulatory cooperation does not undermine the competence and responsibility of States and the European Union to legislate. However, BUSINESSEUROPE and the American Chamber of Commerce, the two lobbies that are really behind TTIP, compare this system of regulatory cooperation, which I mentioned in CETA, to a means of co-writing regulations. You have heard: the lobbies of multinationals say that they will have the power to co-write regulations. If you were consistent with your motion for a resolution, colleagues of the majority, you could not in any case ratify CETA. On the other hand, you could easily vote the PTB resolution on CETA. It is not too late, the vote has not yet taken place, I would point out to you! I have to end with hope. There's still hope in this case. The only progress that has been made so far in the TTIP issue, which is meagre progress, which is totally insufficient, but which is still being made, we owe it to the people's movement, to the people's mobilization. People do not want these treaties. It is enough to see the European Citizens' Initiative against TTIP, which has won more than 3.2 million signatures. This is the most popular initiative that has ever existed in Europe. It is against this TTIP that the majority supports today. It is really a sign of hope because, visibly the best arguments that can be developed here, are not enough to convince you. You remain in your role as relay of multinationals. It is also a role in your national policy. So it's not that surprising. You don't even follow the UCM. Do you realize – and I am addressing, among other things, the MR who has this electoral fund at the SME level – that you are not beginning to be delusional again? Watch out for the next election! Imagine if the UCM gives as instructions not to vote for the MR because it supported the TTIP! Think about it at the time of the vote! And the farmers!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u225	Mr Van Hees, Mrs Fonck does not want me to interrupt, so I shall refrain from speaking.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u226	I conclude by saying the positive aspect that I see: it is this incredible mobilization that is developing and that has already delayed the conclusion of the TTIP by several months and even years. In fact, initially it was planned for this year. It is not a few amendments to the Treaty that can change it because what is at stake is the DNA of this TTIP. It must be rejected globally because it is the logic of profit and the abandonment of democracy to the multinationals who are the DNA of this Treaty. This truth, you'll have to end up hearing it. If you do not hear it from the few Members who are sending you the message, you will hear it from the people who are increasingly organising themselves against this unacceptable Treaty which organizes the dictatorship of multinationals. I'm done, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u227	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would therefore like to speak in addition to my group leader – as she has announced – on the more specific but essential issue of the arbitration tribunals that appear in both CETA and TTIP. Following strong criticism by civil society and progressive forces of private arbitration mechanisms (ISDS), the European Commission has developed a new framework called ICS. Some have welcomed this, and also among the majority, since, indeed, demand 2.c of your resolution says: "to pay attention to concerns regarding, in particular, the possible inclusion of the provisions on the ICS in the agreement and, in this context, support the European Commission's proposal of 16 September 2015 concerning the new transparent system for the settlement of disputes between investors and States: the jurisdictional system of investments." One might wonder if you are aware of what you are asking to support. But don't worry, ladies and gentlemen, we are very attentive to it. Neither the proposed procedure for the appointment of ICS judges nor their status meets international requirements to ensure the independence of the courts. As such, the ICS appears, not as an international court, but rather as a permanent tribunal of arbitration. With regard to the EU-Canada agreement concluded in September 2014 with a more traditional ISDS, the Commission took advantage of the legal grooming period of the agreement to negotiate with the Canadian government a new investment protection chapter. This new chapter contains the main elements of the ICS framework. On 29 February, the Commission announced the end of CETA's legal grooming and the effective replacement of ISDS by this new model. The ICS was presented by the Commission as the end of the ISDS system and as a court guaranteeing the right of States to regulate and with more safeguard, such as the appeal mechanism. But despite the announcement effect, independent experts agree that the ICS remains, for the most part, as dangerous as ISDS. Worse still, it would institutionalize arbitration by raising it as a court. No, therefore, the ICS is in no way the end of the ISDS system, but on the contrary, the current proposal contributes to its perpetuation. The Commission uses the terms "court" and "judges", but these are not accompanied by the institutional safeguards inherent in these concepts. Judges continue to have financial interests. They are paid according to the duration of the case and in a context where only foreign investors can initiate cases. And, on the other hand, there is no prohibition for them to also become arbitrators. So, even if it is reformed, for my group, a parallel system is neither necessary nor desirable in TTIP or CETA. The Commission's proposal consolidates the expansion of ISDS in countries with developed judicial systems. Special privileges continue to be granted to large foreign investors without providing any evidence of the benefits to the public interest. There is no evidence of systemic flaws in US or European courts that would effectively justify a system for foreign investors. Moreover, this system is certainly not for the benefit of SMEs; the procedural costs far exceed the potential gains for SMEs. But should we not just defend these SMEs on which the Belgian economic fabric is based? So you've obviously chosen your side, when you know that the ISDS assumes a market distortion in favour of large foreign investments and in disadvantage of domestic servants and smaller ones. Finally – and this is an essential point – the right to regulate states is not guaranteed at all. This has already been recalled during the debate: the judiciary sector is concerned. Already at the end of 2015, the European Association of Magistrates had come out criticising the ICS mechanism. The ISDS had also, already in the past, been criticized by the German judiciary. And more recently, the great association of German magistrates (DRB) has strongly criticized the ICS, based in particular on the lack of a legal basis and the non-necessity of such a court. Because we are not talking about small states with unstable legal structures, we are talking about the European Union, Canada and the United States. Wouldn't our courts be good enough for investors? Should they escape the justice that is ours, we poor mortals? Of course, we must support our companies in exporting, without any ambiguity, but not in any way, especially on the back of our country's ability to legislate and regulate. Yet that is what we are being offered today. The Commission's proposal is based on the presumption that national prices are not capable of protecting foreign investors. Therefore, they must not justify why they are using ISDS without first exhausting the national path. Here is another exclusive privilege granted to foreign investors! However, Belgium could change its position on this issue without being a pioneer and without taking unnecessary risks for Belgian investors. Many countries have already suffered and understood the risks. Risks that are concrete, as has already been demonstrated in discussions with the Minister of Finance. I will cite just one example: the action taken by the Chinese insurer Ping An in protest of the dismantling of Fortis, which actually led to a favourable decision for the Belgian State but nevertheless cost Belgian taxpayers some EUR 3.5 million in fees and legal fees. The proceedings before a World Bank arbitral tribunal were based on a Belgian-Chinese investment protection treaty. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, when I am talking about ISDS or its variants, I am also thinking – we have already discussed this – about our health care and mutuals. Health is neither a product nor a commodity, but a right to which every citizen must have access. And in the TTIP negotiations there is a great deal of concern about this, as has already been said. For my group, health services and services of general interest must clearly be excluded from these negotiations – regardless of how they are financed. However, ISDS or ICS are indisputable threats to health care as organised in Belgium. Indeed, a private company might consider this to be a distortion of competition. I am talking about health care, social services and social security systems and how they are organised and financed. The right of States to define their health policies, the organization, financing and management of health and medical services cannot be restricted. We fear, by relaying the fears of the mutuals, that these treaties will de facto lead to an unacceptable commodification of health care as the free market principles would be applied to them in a neoliberal logic aimed only at maximising profits. We are therefore afraid that this Treaty will simply undermine our social and mutualistic model, while, as some say, it has enabled us to better resist the crisis. I hope that, through this modest intervention, I could at least have drawn your attention. In any case, you will not be able to say that we will not have warned you before we proceed to the vote. As we know, we have tabled an amendment that contains the entire text, which is much better than the one proposed by the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u228	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are coming to the conclusion of an exciting debate. Indeed, we point out what may be our view of the future of Europe. In short, this debate on the Transatlantic Treaty has great merit, that of referring us to our own European responsibilities. It is Europe that is perhaps more at the foot of the wall than the United States. I will say a word about the resolution of the majority. It is not all reprehensible. Far from it! Some aspects deserve consideration. But this resolution would not exist if the majority itself were not wary of the process under way. To read the majority resolution well, although it is imprecise or unsatisfactory on some aspects, it is an expression of concern about what is being negotiated. There are many concerns even if the requirements are not always very strong. And if really the demands are what you say, then you should almost question the negotiating mandate given in its time by the previous government. If you were logical, you should go that far. Indeed, a number of points in your resolution are obviously not in the mandate you gave at the time when the previous government authorized the start of negotiations. There is therefore a small problem of cohesion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u229	Mr. Maingain, it is always a pleasure to speak with you. To correct you – and I think I can do so on behalf of the majority – I would not talk about worry but about vigilance. I share with you the concern for the accuracy of the French language. It is therefore the vigilance that we are expressing in the motion for a resolution that we are tabling today. Furthermore, we are responding to questions that also arise in civil society, and it is legitimate to do so. That is why we have recently done this exercise in the Committee on External Relations. Secondly, I would like to highlight the need to understand that our mandate is in line with that of the previous legislature. You partially remember that, Mr. Maingain. But the Socialist Party should remember this in particular. Let us consider the main themes of the mandate given in advance of the negotiations for the European Union and to start negotiations with the United States. I think everyone could be there with a little bit of good will, Mrs. Onkelinx.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u230	I thank Mrs Jadin for her research into precision in the French language. Can I help? I'm talking about concern, you're talking about vigilance. Maybe we could agree that we have the same "live concern." All these are style exercises. More fundamentally, I cannot understand those who agree to go to the confidential chamber of Parliament or the European Commission. I cannot accept, in relation to the status of parliamentarians, what our responsibility in democratic control is, that we are bound to such humiliating conditions in the exercise of our responsibilities. I say it very frankly: I will never set foot in this place! It is contrary to my conception of the exercise of my function. I cannot understand that there is not a much stronger protest from all the parliamentary assemblies about this diminutio capitis of the prerogatives that are ours.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u231	I'm not gonna argue. I just want to give you an example that is very important: the issue of arms exports. In the Walloon Region, files can be viewed in a closed office and the information cannot be communicated because it is trade agreements. This exists, it is a provision that is not at all exceptional.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u232	I'm not saying she's exceptional. I'm not saying the precedent you're calling on me to convince me to accept this. Moreover, trade agreements that target a specific sector of activity with companies that are directly concerned and that are individualized in terms of identification can still be discussed. Here we are not linked to a particular sector of activity, with companies named in the draft Treaty. We're not here. Of course, in a number of deliberative assemblies a degree of confidentiality is ensured when privacy or individual rights can be infringed, but we are not in the discussion of this treaty. I believe that comparison is not correct here. It must be said that all this has been possible only because there has been collective pressure, even though some consider this to be a sufficient step forward. It wasn't the original design. I have read the brochure with great attention and I recognize that the European Commissioner, Mrs Malmström, is undoubtedly of high quality. It has just distributed a brochure saying: "In order for the agreement to deliver on its promises, it must be as transparent and open as possible and involve all stakeholders." Praiseful intention! But I have no problem accepting that the European Commission should take some time to negotiate confidentially. I can very well conceive it. However, it should not be said that because of the mandate, we are bound in any way by the conclusions of this negotiation. Far from it! And it is not because some of us have been able to consult the documents that we will be bound in any way! When I go through Mrs Malmström's brochure, it seems very revealing to me from the heart of the debate. On each chapter, it concludes with sensitive or controversial issues. There is no chapter, in which there is not, indeed, with a limited concern for information, a point on what is problematic. The problem is the sovereignty of Europe. It is the ability each time for Europe, as a sector of activity by sector of activity, to be able to set standards which may be more demanding than those currently in force. Mrs Malmström, in this information brochure, suggests that the European Union will not only be able to continue to maintain its existing regulations but will also continue to raise its level of compliance in terms of standards. This is the heart of the negotiation! I'm not prejudging! I look forward to hearing the final version of the texts. But basically, it will be necessary to know how far Europe will be limited by the Treaty in the exercise of its sovereignty in order to establish more demanding standards for a number of sectors of activity or not. We'll check! We will check whether Europe retains its full legislative powers in a number of sectors or not. This is the real issue for me! If this is not the case and we are subject, in one way or another, to a binding opinion of the Regulatory Cooperation Forum – in the words of the texts – which will still be an extraordinary lobby – this is part of the game of all the preparation of legislative or regulatory texts – if the European bodies are bound in any way by a binding procedure resulting from an opinion of this Forum, then we will have lost Europe's sovereignty and we will have put a brake on its integration. Pierre Defraigne is right to ask whether we are in the right time to make this agreement. He is right to ask whether we do not first have to succeed in European integration before we go further on this. It is not a question of denying the principle of negotiating trade agreements with the United States or any other world-wide. The question is whether, today, the balance in power relations is fair enough for Europe to be a trading partner with all the same weapons as the United States. That's the real question. I'm not prejudging. I'm waiting for the outcome of the negotiation. I'm trying to find out. But I will not venture into dark places where I would be bound to a duty of confidentiality when I could discover aspects that are so contrary to what I can consider to be in line with my vision of Europe that I cannot remain silent. Therefore, I will not be on the sidelines of those who say that European negotiators are just the puppets of multinationals because these statements are excessive, contemptuous and in no way justified on them. Nor will I be in the camp of those who believe that trade has the sole virtue of ensuring economic growth. This is not true in the light of a number of realities, including intra-European reality. The Union of Middle Classes has made criticisms which must not be indifferent. It is also true that, in your resolution, you are not very generous for the future of the middle classes. Your only concern is to advocate for a study that aims to create a clearing mechanism within the European Union for SMEs. Just funding a study is not very demanding to defend the interests of the middle classes or SMEs in the European Union. But it is certainly a pleasure for those who have introduced this proposal. More fundamentally, I believe that there will indeed be a risk of economic concentration to the benefit of certain sectors of activity which can benefit from these treaties, of course. But the imbalance in the economic fabric in Europe will increase to the detriment of very small and small enterprises. I understand the concerns of the Union of Middle Classes at home. It is not enough to ask for a study to know how to compensate for disadvantages. Therefore, I am cautious, cautious, reserved and waiting to hear the conclusions before making a final opinion, because I think only on the basis of certain texts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u233	There are no other speakers, unless the government asks to speak in connection with these resolutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u234	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank all the groups, not only for today's very short debate, compared to the very long discussions during the many committee meetings with hearings and discussions between the groups. It is very good to get some recommendations from Parliament. As always, the government will, with great attention, not only read all the recommendations of the Chamber in the motion for a resolution, but will also try to follow them up. I think it is very useful to say that. Second element. I would like once again to confirm what we have done in recent years with regard to transparency in this debate. I note, moreover, that this request for transparency is very little present for many other negotiations that have taken place or are under way. We have asked, on behalf of the Belgian Government, for a very long time, that the Commission's negotiating mandate be published. We finally got this publication. We have asked for the European positions to be published. They are available on the European Commission's website, not only for parliamentarians, but for all citizens who wish to learn about them. As regards the reading rooms which have been opened at the request of a number of parliamentarians, to start at European level, what we have obtained is that documents of the negotiations classified on the American side are accessible. Of course we may not want to read them, but if we want to disclose them, the Americans will simply not accept them being made available to all those who are involved in the work of parliaments. We are probably one of the first countries to have organized these reading rooms for a very large number of parliamentarians. But we may not want access to classified documents. Moreover, I asked the European Commissioner not only to come to the Chamber but also to the regional parliaments. She has responded to my request. I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mrs Malmström in Parliament for the cooperation with all the assemblies in Belgium, the Federal Parliament and the parliaments of the Regions and the Communities. That was not so obvious, but very useful for everyone. Finally, I would like to point out that the negotiations, as many have said, are under way. We are therefore not debating a treaty, but negotiating rounds. I would simply point out that, even when negotiations are very successful, as with Canada – which was initially requested by Quebec – it is still possible to improve the texts. Thus, there is no longer any ISDS clause in the final version of CETA, because we have incorporated the new scheme proposed by the European Commission, which is much better in my view – but we can diverge on this point. In any case, we will take into account all the recommendations that will be adopted by Parliament. Of course, it will be up to the various assemblies concerned to decide on a final text. When the negotiations are over – and I will not vote on their content today – I myself told Commissioner Malmström, it will only be a matter of voting in favour of a final text if it achieves the objectives that we have put forward since the beginning of the negotiation. So there's no reason to think we could buy, in any way, a cat in a bag. It will be on the basis of the outcome of a negotiation that governments and, of course, parliaments will decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u235	Mr President, I would like to point out something in what has just been said to us by the Minister. With regard to the transparency – or rather the lack of transparency – of reading rooms, he simply told us that the United States did not want them. So the TTIP is not even adopted yet that we are already being forced to impose diktats that prevent transparency. That seems very bad to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u236	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. the discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u237	- 22... Benoit Hellings cs (904/8) Punt/Point 3 (n) - 24 – Laurette Onkelinx cs (904/9) ****** The vote on the amendments which have been adopted, proposal No. 904 and the proposals to reject the other proposals will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendments, proposal No 904 and proposals to reject the other proposals will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u238	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Stéphane Crusnière, rapporteur, referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u239	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1601/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1601/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u240	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u241	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 3 December 2015, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 10 December 2015 for a mandate of an alternate member (category "external member with professional experience relevant to the assignment') of the French-speaking Appointment Committee for the notary. In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 3 December 2015, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Moniteur of 10 December 2015 for an alternate member (category "external member with useful experience for the function") of the Commission de nomination de langue française pour le notariat. No applications were submitted. No applications were submitted. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 2 March 2016, I propose that you refrain from a new call and await the overall renewal of the mandates. The mandates shall expire on 10 February 2017 and the vacancies shall be published no later than six months before the expiry of the mandate. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 2 March 2016, I propose that you do not issue a new call and wait for the general renewal of mandates. The terms of office expire on 10 February 2017 and the holidays must be published no later than six months before the expiry of the term of office. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u242	The sp.a Group proposes that Mr Johan Vande Lanotte be replaced by Ms Karin Temmerman as resigning member of the Bureau. The sp.a group proposed replacing Mr Johan Vande Lanotte, Member of the Bureau who had resigned, with Ms Karin Temmerman. Are you sure you don't mind? Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Mrs. Temmerman, congratulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u243	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Proposal No. 1664/1 by Mrs Daphné Dumery and Mr Robert Van de Velde were already considered last week. Proposal No 1664/1 by Mrs Daphné Dumery and Mr Robert Van de Velde has already been taken into account last week. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 2 March 2016, I also propose the proposal for a resolution tabled by Mr Marcel Cheron and Mr Stefaan Van Hecke and others. asking the Court of Auditors to investigate the causes of the failure of the GEN Fund and the significant delay in the GEN work, No. 1693/1, to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u244	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 2 March 2016, I also propose that you take into account the motion for a resolution by Mr. Marcel Cheron and Stefaan Van Hecke et al. to instruct the Court of Auditors to investigate the establishment of the causes which led to the bankruptcy of the RER Fund and the considerable delay in the construction of the RER, No 1693/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u245	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u246	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service on 23 February 2016. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration of 23 February 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 115/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Gwenäelle Grovonius and Mr Karine Lalieux and Mr Stéphane Crusnière; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Kattrin Jadin and by Messrs. Emmanuel Burton and Gautier Calomne. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 115/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Gwenäelle Grovonius and Mr Karine Lalieux and Mr Stéphane Crusnière; A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Kattrin Jadin and Mr Emmanuel Burton and Mr Gautier Calomne. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put that motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u247	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u248	Yes [[80]] Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u249	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Public Health, Environment and Renewal Committee of the Society on February 24, 2016. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Health, the Environment and the Social Renewal of 24 February 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 116/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Muriel Gerkens and Ms Laurette Onkelinx; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Renate Hufkens and Nathalie Muylle and Mr Dirk Janssens. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 116/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Muriel Gerkens and Mrs Laurette Onkelinx; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Renate Hufkens and Mr Nathalie Muylle and Mr Dirk Janssens. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put that motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u250	Mr President, I will be brief. That is a serious matter, and that is why I am taking the trouble to introduce the vote on this motion. In April 2014, there was an agreement in this chamber to pass a law recognizing clinical psychologists, orthopedagogues and psychotherapists, with a range of skill requirements, etc. The application was scheduled for September 2016. Until then, orders had to be made so that this law could be implemented. The government declaration of October 2014 states that the government is committed to the speedy implementation of this law. Today, we see that the law, in fact, is not going to be enforced, but that there is going to be a detrication and a profound change in its content. I would therefore like to draw the attention of colleagues in the majority. There's really a break from a pact, a collective work, a political agreement. In the motion we tabled, we ask that the government declaration of October 2014 be respected, that the four recognized psychotherapeutic directions be respected: psychoanalytic, humanistic, behaviouralist and systemic orientation. We ask that autonomy in the exercise of these professions be preserved, and that the practice of psychotherapy be regarded as a trade, a trade that requires skills and training. The 2014 Act provides for a minimum of nine years of training. And we're told that it's not enough, that we need a university master's degree. As if it was essential, rather than skills to acquire. We ask that the autonomy of clinician psychologists also be respected. So I'm gonna stop there, Mr. President. A bill is coming soon and I really insist that parliamentarians of the majority be attentive and ensure that the commitments made with all the players in the sector are respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u251	Mr President, I am intervening in this matter, which I know well and which many of you know well. Under the last legislature, together, government and parliament, we had found a solution for a matter that had been in Parliament for more than ten years. We have conducted consultations with the majority and opposition, with all the professionals concerned: psychotherapists, psychologists, psychiatrists, psychoanalysts. Whatever our differences, we were able to reach an almost unanimous agreement, with a clear desire to have requirements for the training of psychotherapists, with a desire to protect these professionals and protect patients from charlatans. We were all proud of that agreement and we had all applauded it. At the moment, obviously, Mrs De Block is planning to unravel him, to unravel him back-paedaler, while some of us among the majority – I am thinking of Mrs Muylle – have really worked hard to find a good solution of respect, especially for psychotherapists and their patients. The vote is well known: the majority will vote on the motion of confidence, while the opposition will refuse it. Our will was to draw your attention. The file is, for the time being, in the Council of State. He'll be back. We will then be able to enter into a dialogue in the Committee on Public Health. I sincerely ask everyone, especially those who are in contact with professionals, to realize that this retropedaling will be harmful to patients and professionals. We have more to do than go back to agreements that have made this Parliament's honour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u252	Mr President, I will be very brief. I would like to say to Mrs Onkelinx and Mrs Gerkens that the majority are attentive to the problem. Not all professions found their appeasement in the agreement that had been reached. Therefore, there is a need for reflection.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u253	Mr President, during the previous parliamentary term, very hard work was made on an agreement on this subject, which was particularly delicate. We fear that the agreement will be completely reversed. That fear is all the more grounded when we see which designs are ready. That is why we want to support Mrs Gerkens' motion very clearly and Mrs Onkelinx's explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u254	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u255	Yes 79 Yes No. 50 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 129 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. I note that Mrs Pehlivan has voted against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u256	Vote on Amendment No 23 of Laurette Onkelinx cs. replacing the text of the proposal (904/9) Vote on Amendment No 23 by Laurette Onkelinx cs. to replace the text of the proposal (904/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes [[39]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 129 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u257	Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 21 by Benoit Hellings cs to insert recital B/1 (n). (904/8) Vote on amendment No 21 by Benoit Hellings cs to insert a recital B/1 (n). (904/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 49 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mr Tim Vandenput voted against. Vote on Amendment No 19 by Vanessa Matz to insert recital X (n). (904/3) Vote on Amendment No 19 by Vanessa Matz to insert a recital X (n). (904/3) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 48 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 130 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 11 from Vanessa Matz at point 1.a. (904/3) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Vanessa Matz in point 1.a. (904/3) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[39]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 129 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mr Massin has voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 14 from Vanessa Matz to insert a point 1.f/1 (n). (904/3) Vote on Amendment No 14 by Vanessa Matz to insert a point 1.f/1 (n). (904/3) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u258	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 17 from Vanessa Matz at point 1.r. (904/3) Vote on Amendment No 17 by Vanessa Matz in point 1.r. (904/3) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes [[11]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 38 Abstensions Total 130 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 18 from Vanessa Matz to the omission of point 2.c. (904/3) Vote on Amendment No 18 by Vanessa Matz to delete point 2.c. (904/3) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 49 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 130 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 22 from Benoit Hellings cs to insert a point 3 (n). (904/8) Vote on Amendment No 22 by Benoit Hellings cs to insert a point 3 (n). (904/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 50 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 130 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 24 of Laurette Onkelinx cs to insert a point 3 (n). (904/9) Vote on amendment No 24 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to insert a point 3 (n). (904/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes [[38]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 130 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u259	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 79 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (904/10) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (904/10)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u260	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 79 Yes No. [[47]] No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 234/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 234/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u261	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 13) Yes 79 Yes No. 49 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 899/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 899/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u262	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 14) Yes 79 Yes No. 50 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. So 1012/1 was rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 1012/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u263	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 15) Yes 79 Yes No. 48 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 1062/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 1062/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u264	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (vote/vote 16) Yes [[80]] Yes No. [[47]] No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 836.1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 836/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u265	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes 79 Yes No. 49 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 1137/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 1137/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u266	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes 79 Yes No. 50 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 1597/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 1597/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u267	Vote on Amendment No 4 by Willy Demeyer cs to omit Article 2. (1644/5) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Willy Demeyer cs to delete Article 2. (1644/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes [[39]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 6 by Willy Demeyer cs to omit Article 29. (1644/5) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Willy Demeyer cs to delete Article 29. (1644/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u268	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 29 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 29 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 5 from Willy Demeyer cs to the deletion of Article 38. (1644/5) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Willy Demeyer cs to delete Article 38. (1644/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u269	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 38 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 38 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 7 from Willy Demeyer to the deletion of Article 84. (1644/5) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Willy Demeyer cs to delete Rule 84. (1644/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes [[40]] Yes No. 88 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 84 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 84 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u270	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 21) Yes [[80]] Yes No. [[20]] No Abstentions 30 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1644/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1644/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u271	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 22) Yes 128 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1601/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1601/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-03-54-plenair-ip100x.u272	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 10 March 2016. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 10 March 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 10 March 2016 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 10 March 2016 at 2.15 p.m.
