ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u2	The President (in front of the standing assembly) Colleagues, we have learned with regret the death on 12 October 2016 of our former colleague Georges Désir who sat in the Chamber for the FDF from 17 April 1977 to 17 December 1978 and from 13 October 1985 to 13 December 1987. His life seems to be made up of several lives. Georges Désir was born in Ans on April 16, 1925 in a modest family. After his Greco-late humanities among the Jesuits, he began his studies in philosophy and literature at the University of Liège in 1944. Refusing compulsory work in Germany, he then enlisted as a volunteer soldier in an American unit and participated in the Allies' offensive in Germany. After the war, he resumed his university studies and also won the first prize in dramatic art at the Royal Conservatory of Liège. In 1946, he began his career on the radio. He is then part of the first team of the INR, the ancestor of the RTB. He hosted several cultural programs before creating and producing Visa for the world, which was the RTB's flagship program for many years. It is for him the realization of an old dream, an extraordinary chance to set foot on almost every continent. Georges Désir took his first political office in 1970 as city council member of Sint-Lambrechts-Woluwe. In 1976, he became mayor of his municipality, a post which he would continue to hold until 2006. In that position, Georges Désir gives the best of himself. During his five consecutive terms of office, he devotes all his energy to it. After all, he does not want to betray the expectations of the citizens of his church he knows well. He is a hard worker and a builder at heart and he puts his mark on the church he carries so in the heart and in every way has gotten to know. He will be carried there on hand and will enjoy the trust and respect of his fellow citizens until his passing. This convinced municipalist was for a long time the dean of the mayors of the 19 Brussels communes. In March 2006, Georges Désir officially inaugurated the Wolubilis showroom, thus realizing his dream of always. Even if the long speeches do not scare him, this excellent speaker also practice wonderfully this art more chiseled with the apostrophic, the formula, the image that permeates the minds. His speeches at the rostrum of our assembly testify to the richness of his style and his great culture. He is particularly interested in audiovisual, foreign affairs and communal problems. He also served in the Senate from 1978 to 1985 and from 1987 to 1995. When the Brussels-Capital Region was founded in 1989, he was appointed Minister of Housing, Environment, Nature Conservation and Water Policy in Charles Picqué's first government. Georges Désir will leave the memory of a raced and elegant man, of a great culture and of unquestionable charisma. I have conveyed the sincere condolences of our assembly to his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u3	Mr President, it was with sadness that we learned of the death of Mr Georges Désir, a man of many facets and who, at each of his challenges, left the mark of a great professional, particularly applied. Even though he was for thirty years the mayor of the Brussels municipality of Woluwe-Saint-Lambert, it was in the region of Liège that Georges Désir spent his youth. Perhaps a sign of a political destiny that he had not imagined, Georges Désir was a scout at the 18th Liège unit at the same time as the Minister of State Jean-Pierre Grafé and one of his future colleagues at RTBF, Georges Konen. This anecdote, perhaps, summarizes Georges Désir's two professional lives, which was initially one of the pillars of RTB thanks to its Visa for the World program. He made viewers discover the distant countries, sometimes far away, and allowed many candidates to tread the ground on other continents. When he came to Parliament as a representative of the people in 1977, he left his career as a journalist to devote himself entirely to his political course. Logically, he had a lot of interest in foreign political issues. One year earlier, in 1976, six years after joining politics, he became mayor of St. Lambrechts-Woluwe and he would remain for no less than thirty years. He was very close to his fellow citizens, developed his congregation and worked hard to give it a cultural dimension. We will also retain Georges Désir as one of the Brussels premiers when the Region was established in 1989. He was in charge of Housing, the Environment, Nature Conservation and Water Policy in the government led by Charles Picqué. The Brussels Region and the country lose a committed, educated and ambitious man. On behalf of the federal government, I also wish to extend my sincere condolences to his family and to all his relatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I would suggest that you observe a few moments of silence in memory of our late colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u5	The President (in front of the standing assembly) We learned with regret the death on 20 October 2016 of Minister of State Roger Lallemand, Honorary President of the Senate. Roger Lallemand was born on 17 January 1932 in Quevaucamps, a small village in Hainaut, to which he remained attached all his life. After high school in Tournai, he enrolled at the Free University of Brussels and obtained the diplomas of Doctor of Law and Graduate in Romanesque Philology. At the beginning of 1979 Roger Lallemand entered the Senate. He will serve there until 5 May 1999. In addition to chairing the Justice Committee for more than 15 years, he will also chair the PS Group and chair the Assembly in 1988. His friends and political opponents would quickly recognize and appreciate this art of compromise that he practised with mastery, disinterestedness and serenity. Never seeking to impose it by a scathing split or an injuring word, he was instead cultivating the art of listening. Roger Lallemand thus gradually became one of the most surrounded and listened to senators. Before he sat in the Senate, Roger Lallemand was already a lawyer with clear ideals, who united ethics with personal commitment. The ethical was always at the heart of politics for him, he said. Roger Lallemand had also become friends with Jean-Paul Sartre and Simone de Beauvoir when he acted as lawyer for Régis Debray before the Bolivian courts. He also defended Willy Peers, the doctor known as the advocate of the legalization of abortion in Belgium. His name will forever remain linked to the law to partially depenalise the 1990 pregnancy break, but he is also the architect of the law on copyright and related rights. It would be futile to want to count the salient speeches given to Parliament and elsewhere by this stubborn worker, whose every intervention, in a language that is rich and stripped away, attests to experience and clairvoyance. Roger Lallemand was a very talented speaker who highlighted parliamentary debates. Its enormous working capacity, combined with an innate ability to reconcile opposing views and legendary calm, have often made it indispensable in difficult situations. We will remember him as a great humanist who never hesitated to participate actively in the most arduous debates in order to defend great causes with conviction. The name Roger Lallemand will remain committed to the long march towards the decriminalization of abortion, the prohibition of anti-personnel mines, the defence of free expression and the reform of the justice system. Its effective and persevering action will have marked Belgian political life. Roger Lallemand was a conciliatory man, naturally brought to indulgence. His approach to law was based primarily on respect for democratic values. The King had appointed him Minister of State in 2002. I have extended the heartfelt condolences of our assembly to his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u6	Mr President, a few days ago Belgium lost a brilliant lawyer, a leading politician and, more importantly, a high-quality man. A graduate of Romanesque philology and a Doctor of Law from the Université libre de Bruxelles, Roger Lallemand held the post of President of the Cercle du Libre Exam of the University between 1952 and 1956. In 1958 he became a member of the Brussels Bar. As an unparalleled advocate, Roger Lallemand devoted himself entirely to the domain of human rights. For example, he defended Régis Debray, who was arrested in Bolivia in 1967 for supporting Che Guevara. In 1982, he assisted the libertarian activist, Roger Noël, imprisoned in Poland for smuggling a radio transmitter to a trade union. It was also Roger Lallemand who had the ULB professor Michel Vincineau acquitted, who had been brought to justice for having dared to display his homosexuality. One of Roger Lallemand's major battles was that of abortion. Thus he was the lawyer of the gynaecologist Willy Peers, arrested on anonymous denunciation, in January 1973, for having carried out the abortion of a young woman with a mental disability of 27 years. He fought politically. Senator from 1979 onwards, he is the co-author of the law which partially decriminalized the voluntary termination of pregnancy, in the spring of 1990, with the Flemish liberal senator, Lucienne Herman-Michielsens. He was also at the basis of legal texts on anti-personnel mines or negationism. Thanks to his constant struggle, several progressive laws were passed that respect personal freedom and autonomy. Because he entered into dialogue with the people and respected them, progress could be made in the ethical debates. On 1 February 1991, Roger Lallemand had been made Commander in the Order of the Legion of Honour by French President François Mitterrand and he received the title of Minister of State in 2002. He also chaired the Judaism Foundation of Belgium and was an administrator at the ULB for many years. A man of letters, a man of culture, he was a friend of Jean-Paul Sartre, of Simone de Beauvoir. He liked to say that, I quote, "policy is not limited to the management of society, it is a moral of responsibility and solidarity, an ethic of generosity". He died at the age of 84. His name will remain engraved in the political history of this country. His name will also remain engraved on my personal journey since I had the privilege of practising my legal internship in the firm he was managing with Pierre Legros. On behalf of the federal government, I wish to extend my deepest condolences to his wife, family and all of his loved ones.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to observe a few moments of silence in memory of the late Minister of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have just learned, a few hours ago, of the conclusion of a Belgo-Belgian agreement on the CETA Treaty. First of all, Prime Minister, let me express my strong criticism of the pressure you have exerted on the federated entities that have been passed on to you by Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone here is talking about democracy. You have to be able to talk, have interesting debates. What has happened in recent weeks is unacceptable. It was a European Union that pushed with ultimatums, which banned a debate. What we have experienced in Belgium is, on a small scale, what Greece experienced last year. It is a European Union that does not accept any form of adversarial debate, which accepts only debates when we say yes. Today, this pressure must be denounced because it is contrary to a democratic vision of the construction of the European Union. The same phenomenon was seen during the referendum in France. People can speak in Europe provided they say yes. You can't say no. We can speak in the Netherlands about the European Constitution, provided that the Dutch say yes. Otherwise, we can't. We can speak in the Walloon Parliament about CETA, provided we say yes. Otherwise, we can't. Is this, ladies and gentlemen, your vision of the European Union? People are getting more and more tired of it! I even heard politicians. Mr De Gucht and Mr Verhofstadt even suggested that we not just hold a debate here, let alone vote on it. That's what politicians are doing today. As soon as a problem arises, it simply does not get voted on anymore. That is not our view of democracy! That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate all the citizens who have made it possible for this debate to take place throughout Europe and in Wallonia. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Walloon Parliament for opening a debate on CETA. This is still crazy, because you all say here: "It is an important agreement", but it is not even the subject of a mini-debate at the federal level! Is this for you the important debates? Is this for you the holding of a debate on CETA? My question will be very clear. We have heard that there is an intergovernmental agreement and regret it, given the elements currently in our possession. This agreement is, for us, a bad agreement. Today, no comma changes at CETA level itself: the basic text, the courts of exception for multinationals remain. Environmental and social clauses are not binding. It seems to us that this is a disastrous agreement, which is now put on the table in a Belgo-Belgian agreement. Prime Minister, are you going to come back to this agreement to save all of our agriculture, all of our jobs and not achieve an economic disaster, as is the case with the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), an agreement between the United States, Canada and Mexico that caused thousands of jobs to be lost?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u9	Prime Minister, I am not a green boy, but I understood that the present CETA proposal may have been of a kind to undermine the foundations of our environmental legislation. I am not a member of any consumer organisation either, but I had understood that the present CETA Convention is of a nature to potentially harm my interests as a consumer. I am not a top lawyer, but I have learned from my fellow lawyers that the arbitration procedure developed in the present CETA Convention may be of a nature to undermine the foundations on which our rule of law is built. Finally, Prime Minister, I am not a Waal, but I do sympathize with the Waals, I sympathize with the Walloon people, and until this afternoon I even had some sympathy with his political representatives, because they were the first and only ones who at last dared to turn a nose in the back room Europe, who had the courage of their convictions. The Flemings should have that, too. I am looking at you, Mrs Detiège, because you also know the dossier very well, for example, the dockwork dossier. If there is a Canadian shipping company under the CETA regime tomorrow, it would very well be able to do port work in our ports with its own people. If we challenge that, then the matter will come before the arbitration committee, which will be able to undermine our law on port work, for God's sake. That is why, Prime Minister, I wonder what persuaded the Walloon political representatives to take the tarpaulin? What arguments have you given them to change their minds?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a great hope has been born in society for a week. This hope comes from a niet, that of a minister-president who dared to say no to the roller compressor of the free trade treaties that are obviously the CETA, the TTIP - which is also under discussion - and the TiSA. These new types of agreements are not mere trade agreements, but agreements that are actually aimed at breaking our health, environmental and social rules, those rules that protect us. This immense hope, this immense civic energy, is now being showered, because Wallonia and the Francophone entities have agreed to sign. Why? What about the resolution adopted in the Walloon Parliament on 27 April on the non-signature of an CETA if there is a specific court for multinationals such as the ICS system, if there are still negative lists, and if the precautionary principle is not protected? Mr Hedebouw, we discussed CETA here in this Parliament on 3 March, and the ecologists at the time proposed an amendment to ensure that the principle of the arbitral tribunal and the principle of CETA are subject to the approval of the Court of Justice of the European Union. This amendment was not accepted because there is no political majority for this type of provision. But we discussed this system here, Mr. Hedebouw. Prime Minister, my question is simple: what led Paul Magnette to change his mind?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u11	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with these words: Merci Paul. Merci Paul Magnette. What Paul Magnette has achieved over the past week is that there will be a tilting in the debates on free trade agreements. In the past, these free trade agreements have been spurred uncritically by the parliaments. It's been over since the last week. Colleagues, especially those who support neoliberal ideas, this is just a start. The great merit of Paul Magnette is that we are going to have a debate on how we organise globalisation. Are we doing this as it has happened over the past twenty or thirty years, breaking down regulations and abandoning governments? We know what the outcome is. Globalisation benefits the 10 percent richest and large companies. The victims are at the bottom of the social ladder. They are left unprotected. I call on my fellow Members in this government not to be deaf and blind. Look what's happening. In Britain the Brexit was approved. In France and Germany extreme right-wing parties emerge, all capitalizing on the unrest and inconveniences experienced by many sections of social society by this kind of free trade agreements. Mr Prime Minister, Mr President of the Chamber, I would like to ask that the full text of the agreement and the intra-Belgian agreement be submitted to the Chamber. My group is asking for a plenary debate on this. It is not possible for this matter to be discussed only in the Flemish Parliament and in the Walloon Parliament. It is here in this Chamber that we must have the democratic debate on free trade agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u12	Mr Prime Minister, the last few weeks have been astounding. Yesterday, I heard the Flemish Prime Minister say that CETA was negotiated. Now I hear there's an agreement. That agreement would contain two parts: an internal Belgian statement on the interpretation of the Convention, of what it contains, and a second statement explaining the position of the Walloon Region. What the hell is that? What is the legal value of an internal Belgian declaration on a treaty? Zero. Do you think a judge will ever give any effect to that? Not at all. It's about a treaty. Your explanation and your statement must also be approved by all Contracting Parties. As for the second part, an explanation of the position of Wallonia in ratification, excuse me, but is that a joke? I'd like to know what that actually says. I refer to the Constitution and the special law. It is therefore not at all certain that CETA will be ratified. I would also like to return to what has been said in recent weeks. Mr De Gucht said that the sovereignty of the countries is not important: Europe, as the Council of Ministers and the European Parliament, will ratify the Treaty. I don't understand Open Vld anymore. Last week there was talk of re-federalisation, now it is Europeanisation. The United Nations will be responsible for this rhythm next week. I can't follow that rhythm. CETA is a mixed treaty for me. This means that the Member States are allowed to make their say about it. That is the sovereignty of the Member States, but I fear that the worst is still coming towards us. There is a case pending before the Court of Justice about the division of competences between the EU and the Member States. I fear that the Court of Justice will interpret European competences very widely as usual and that the sovereignty of the Member States might be compromised. I have three questions, Prime Minister. First of all, what was discussed there? Secondly, what do you think is the legal value of these inter-Belgian agreements? Thirdly, will these two texts be presented and discussed effectively here in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u13	Mr President, Prime Minister, contrary to what has just been said, as a convinced European, it was with great relief that I learned that an intra-Belgian agreement had been reached this morning. This agreement has been reached in a consultation committee that you are leading with your entire ministerial team and with – I would stress – the ministers-presidents of the federated entities who actually have a say in this matter. Prime Minister, this agreement has several qualities. Firstly, as I have just said, he spoke in a consultation committee. This is a demonstration that this instrument works and that it is an important part of what is called federal loyalty. Secondly, thanks to this agreement, Belgium will not be the black sheep of European cohesion at a time when the European Union needs to regain its sense of cohesion. As I have already indicated on several occasions in this forum, European cohesion is going through and will go through the people. We therefore agree with this agreement. Thirdly, the agreement reinforces the coherence of the international francophonie to which our political formation is attached. Canada is one of the major donors to the international Francophonie. As such, this agreement is important. Fourthly, CETA is an important trade agreement for our businesses, SMEs and workers. Mr President, allow me to tell you that I fell a little bit naked when I heard the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the House of Representatives say that there was no debate and that the federal parliamentarians did not have an opportunity to discuss this issue. However, we have been discussing the latter for years, Mr Van der Maelen! But it is true that your party agreed from the start. I will conclude my speech by saying that TTIP is also in the pipeline. Mr Van der Maelen, Mr Hedebouw, you fall naked when you say that we never discuss this issue here! The majority has tabled a text setting out the conditions for the TTIP agreement, which we believe is not ripe. We have no lesson to learn from you in terms of attitude to adopt. We also have no lesson to learn from you about the attention we pay to this type of file! Prime Minister, can you give us information about the agreement that has been reached and that we are looking forward to? What clarifications have been made? Has the Treaty been amended? What will be the procedure at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u14	Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the last few weeks have become the ticket to make a caricature of Wallonia. Wallonia was Europe's rise because it dared to oppose CETA. However, have we not all too quickly ignored the broader protest that began to live in society? It wasn't just about Wallonia. It was also Brussels, it was the German Constitutional Court, it was Test Purchasing, it was the sickness funds, it was a whole series of academics. Each of them had well-founded arguments to raise famous doubts about CETA. But an agreement is needed. We are in favour of free trade, but we are opposed to a treaty in which multinationals instead of people decide what our society should look like. We are in favour of cooperation with Canada, but we are opposed to a dictatorship in which people start to react hysterically to every critical remark made. We are in favour of cooperation with Europe, of course, but we are against a Europe that is not transparent. The lesson of CETA, ladies and gentlemen, is that we need trade agreements 2.0. The era of the unbalanced old trade agreements, the 20th century, is really behind us. Let this be a wake-up call for anyone negotiating trade agreements. Let this be a wake-up call for all trade agreements that are still in the pipeline. The era of the old, mysterious, unbalanced agreements is now finally behind us. Today I am proud to be Belgian. I come to my questions, Prime Minister. There is now an internal Belgian agreement. I would ask you to explain this. I would particularly like to ask you, in this Chamber, to tell us to what extent the agreement is legally binding. What about the arbitration system? Will we stick to a special, exceptional arbitration whereby the multinationals can be put on the same footing as the democratic political decisions that each country is trying to take to make our society better?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, I would like to begin by congratulating you, because at the time when the oral questions were tabled, the result was not yet known, while we know at the moment that the signature of the unharmed and unharmed CETA Agreement can take place. My group is very pleased about this. My group is absolutely pro. My group is in favour of free trade. My group is in favour of the reduction of customs tariffs and tolls and is in favour of the expansion of markets. My group is in favour of giving growth opportunities to our companies. My group is pro-job creation. A free trade agreement with Canada is certainly appropriate, because Canada is the most European country outside the European Union. Mr Hedebouw, I have just listened to your counter-arguments. With you and in many of the counter-arguments, fear, fear of phenomena such as digitisation and globalisation prevails. Such arguments are not only expressed here. In the American presidential elections, one of the candidates, Mr Trump, also proclaims a protectionist discourse to close his borders, to shield himself from the outside world. What are we doing? Protectionism actually involves raising walls, Mr Hedebouw. Communists have experience in building walls. It takes decades to demolish those walls afterwards. Is that your input into the debate? Mr President, allow me once again to say very quietly that the poorest people on this earth live in the most closed economies. We actually owe our country's prosperity to the free trade bloc called Europe. Please ask the inhabitants of Estonia, Poland or Romania today. In my view, it is the duty of all parties, both on the left and on the right, to defend Europe. There would be a democratic deficit. I'd still like to ask you to stay serious. Negotiations have been taking place since 2009 and the negotiating mandate has been launched at the time of your predecessor's government, Prime Minister. That mandate has been approved. There has never been any in-depth objection from the Walloon Parliament. Objections were raised just before the agreement was signed. Just before the agreement was signed, the whole of the European Union was actually held hostage. I don't think that's decent. The European Parliament has its role in this. Anyone who criticises the method today has little faith in the strength of the European Parliament. It is an exclusive competence of the European Union. The Commission should never have delegated this to the Member States. We are in favour of more Europe. Let Europe at least fully exercise the few exclusive powers it has. That is also my appeal to you today, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can confirm that two hours ago we reached agreement in the Conciliation Committee on a Belgian proposal to send texts and documents to the European Commission and the European Council. Tomorrow we will probably get confirmation from the Land Parliaments. After all, one of the regional governments had committed itself to obtaining official approval for Parliament. The agreement has been reached. I would like to recall the retroacts of CETA. The mandate was given in 2009 and expanded in 2011 to include investment and dispute resolution mechanisms, the extremely important issue of arbitration. The negotiations were completed in 2014 and, in early July 2016, the European Commission proposed to submit the texts for signature by the States. Immediately, as early as July, I want to highlight it, the Department of Foreign Affairs organised the necessary consultations to try to arrive at a common position. Eight CEOs were organized. Numerous multilateral, bilateral, formal and informal meetings have taken place until the last few hours. For clarity, discussions with Canada have been interrupted for more than a week, as Canada now considers the ball to be in the European camp, particularly in the Belgian camp. Last week, unfortunately, in the framework of the European Council, I was unable to reach a formal agreement from Belgium. It was therefore necessary to hold further talks with the European Commission and the Länder in Belgium. Last Sunday, the European Commission made a proposal to the Länder and the federal government. However, I found last weekend, together with the European Commission, that it was not possible to reach an agreement on these documents. I noted on Monday in the Conciliation Committee that the Walloon Government and the Brussels Government had some fundamental comments on the texts. On Tuesday they tabled amendments to the working groups of the Consultative Committee. I am precise about the method – I will then touch on the background, of course – to show that our mechanisms, which require tenacity, stubbornness, have worked. In the consultation committee mechanism, we have succeeded in ensuring that a common position is reached for Belgium. We managed to close these discussions, I told you, a few hours ago. What are the important points of arbitration that have been the subject of our discussions? It is indeed an inquiry that seems to me to be quite important. First, the issue of the arbitration mechanism, the ICS. We have obtained – this will have to be confirmed in the next few hours by the other countries and by the Council – a declaration from the Council and the Commission setting out the modalities and guarantees for this arbitration issue. These are modalities, for example, in the selection of judges or in the establishment of a code of conduct. The concern we all share is, of course, to ensure that the guarantees that are given to national or European courts can be present as much as possible in the arbitration mechanisms that are envisaged. Secondly, the question of ratification. That's an important point. It was necessary to recall, what we have done in a number of declarations and documents, that, in order to comply with our constitutional order in Belgium, in order to ratify a treaty, the CETA in this case, each of the entities must validate its ratification. Otherwise, and if there were to be a persistent non-ratification, this would lead to the inability to definitively implement the provisions of the Treaty in question. Thirdly, agricultural issues. In all regions of the country, we are sensitive to this issue of agricultural concerns. The discussions over the last few days have given us an opportunity to clarify this point and to show very pedagogic what CETA means or does not mean for the agricultural sector. Let me give you some examples. We have important instruments at European level in the event of an imbalance in the market for a given agricultural sector. It is possible for both a state and a federal government to take an initiative at European level, ensuring that the European Commission will take an initiative in the event of an imbalance in a given market, with respect for current European legislation. Much has been said and written on the issue of hormones or GMOs. We recalled that the Treaty makes it clear that national and European regulations remain fully applicable in the implementation of the Treaty and that all principles, including the precautionary principle, remain fully applicable, given the way in which a number of environmental or agricultural issues are envisaged in Europe. The same applies to protected designations of origin or geographical indications, for which we have been careful to clarify what is possible or not within the framework of the Treaty. A final important point on which questions were raised concerns the legal status and the legal situation. What are the legal consequences? I'll be nuanced on the subject. First, like any treaty, it is a norm of international law that produces legal effects. We did not touch the treaty; it remained as it was, and not a comma was touched. He'll get out of it. On the other hand, we have obtained that there is a joint interpretative instrument; this should be confirmed in the coming hours. This instrument will allow us to share the same interpretation of the provisions of the Treaty. It does not modify the Treaty, but allows for a shared interpretation of its provisions. In this sense, it produces effects in this context. Third, statements, which exceed 35. These are statements by the Council, the Council and the Commission - and therefore the Member States - or individual statements by the Member States. This is the rule for statements, which you know. The declarations legally bind the person who expresses them. According to the author of the statement, the legal scope is of a different nature, of course. It is therefore by declaration that its legal effects can be analysed. What's the schedule for the next few hours? We have sent the texts formally. I made a formal phone call with Donald Tusk and Jean-Claude Juncker. I will also have a conversation this afternoon with Justin Trudeau, the Prime Minister of Canada. In the coming hours Coreper will examine the texts and we hope to finalize them. At the same time, we have decided to present the documents and proposals to the parliaments. That is what we are doing in plenary for one part this afternoon. The text has already been mentioned in the past. The commitment that has been made by my ministers-presidents of the federated entities is that by midnight at the latest, parliaments should have made a statement. I forwarded this information to Presidents Tusk and Juncker. Sobriety, in substance, is the situation. Political education, and that is the last point I will highlight... I am satisfied with this agreement. It is a good agreement, a positive agreement for our economy. Gross revenue for Europe would be around EUR 12 billion. This means more jobs. Our country has a very open economy and we are also open to the world at political and diplomatic level. I am pleased that it has proved possible to achieve a firm commitment. This also offers us the opportunity to remain particularly credible at European level. That is very important to us. I conclude by telling you that this is a good agreement, a good agreement for trade, a good agreement for economic development, a good agreement for the political relations of Belgium, Europe and Canada. I am glad that a step in the right direction has been taken. I hope that, within the next few hours, the regional parliaments will be able to validate this good agreement for the future of Europe-Canada relations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u17	Mr Prime Minister, first of all, you did not answer the question about the undemocratic pressure that has been exerted so strongly on Wallonia. Everyone is concerned about the great European idea. In this way, however, you will not build a democratic Europe. In this way, you will be pushing people against Europe just a little bit more, because they are not being listened to. Second of all, what's the big deal? Why are you staring blindly at the idea that the ultraliberal free trade agreements will produce jobs? Mr Dewael, what are you doing? Are you still alive in Belgium? Do you see the SMEs who suffer from competition? Do you see the Flemish farmers who suffer from international competition without any standard? That is what Mr Dewael is talking about. What country do you live in? Would you like to return to Earth for a moment? That's the problem. You're talking about jobs, jobs, jobs. Everyone sees that these chords don't provide jobs. Today there are such agreements in Canada, Mexico and the United States, but there are no more jobs. You're just doing propaganda because you're staring yourself blind at the idea that these uthraliberal chords create jobs. Yeah, you guys don't like to hear that. However, it is the truth. The Flemings, the Walls and the Brusselsers do feel in the field that these agreements do not teach them anything. That is why the resistance in Europe, in Wallonia, in Brussels, in Flanders and in other countries will continue to oppose these agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u18	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, just to be clear, when Mrs Beck, journalist at the Vrt, visited the port of Antwerp a few weeks ago, she asked what Canada's interest in the port of Antwerp was. Mr Van Peel could not answer that question. I will answer in his place today. Canada represents 4.5 million tonnes of annual imports and exports in the port of Antwerp. This is about 2% of a total of more than 200 million tonnes. Mr Jambon, I would like to put our trade relationship with Canada in the right perspective. I understand that here in the house a number of people think open and free and want to tear down walls. Mr Dewael, if there are walls that can perhaps be demolished better today than the walls that exist between us and Canada, then perhaps those are the walls that we have built against the Russian market. Our farmers, our growers and our industrialists are more in favour of people like you using their talents and intelligence to re-open the Russian market to our Flemish producers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u19	Mr President, Prime Minister, I have heard your answer. The text of the treaty with Canada is not amended. It will take approval from the Commission and the Council before we see whether the progress you have made will be integrated, will be implemented in practice. We will have to take the time to analyse these texts in detail. I think you've been talking for four days. Democratic times demand that the Walloon Parliament and the parliaments of French-speaking entities should have at least three or four days to enter the text. This ultimatum of tomorrow midnight seems undemocratic to me. You know, the European Greens and the Canadian Greens want laws, want treaties that regulate and frame. This is the role that the European Union should normally play: treaties, laws that govern. CETA, TiSA, TTIP are deregulating machines. These are not just trade agreements. These are political tools to give power to multinationals that already have too many. Look at Caterpillar, look at ING! The political lesson of this story, Prime Minister, is that this week, the intense debate in society and in our parliaments has shown the content of the black box. And today, civil society, has come up against these treaties. We Greens are definitely at the side of this civil society.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u20	Mr President, Prime Minister, I remain hungry. I do not understand how it is possible for the intra-Belgian agreement concluded between the federal level and the Länder to be submitted to the Land Parliaments, but not to this Chamber. We ask that the text of the Treaty be submitted here together with the text of the intra-Belgian agreement. We want to be able to test. If the Walloon Parliament, the Brussels Parliament and the Flemish Parliament will allow their government to sign this agreement, then I do not understand why the Federal Parliament should not look at it either. We have no lessons from anyone in democracy. In my party, unlike in other parties, it was not suggested that the Belgian Constitution should be pushed aside and simply signed. According to our party, such conventions do not fall within the exclusive competence of Europe. The European treaties are clear, these are mixed treaties that need to be discussed in our parliaments. Mr President of the Chamber, Prime Minister, I would once again ask you to present the texts of the Treaty and the intra-Belgian agreement here. We are prepared to debate this in plenary tomorrow, Saturday or Sunday. I repeat, we are prepared to debate this in plenary on Friday, Saturday or Sunday. Or are we going to follow the same wrong path and assume that the conclusion of treaties is only a matter for a few technocrats and governments? No, we ask that parliaments be involved in the adoption of such far-reaching texts.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u21	Mr President, Prime Minister, I am a little disappointed in your reply. You say that nothing has changed about the treaty. It is an intra-Belgian agreement and there will be a statement on arbitration from the European Commission. Actually, we're shadow-trapping here. We're not talking about anything here. In any case, we are not talking about anything that has any legal force or enforceability. I want to talk about something else. What we are now seeing is yet another structural problem of non-homogeneous powers, not homogeneously delineated between the EU and Belgium. Some now seem to want to lift the sovereignty of the Member States. This is again a structural problem of non-homogeneous powers within Belgium, which is a hallucinating division of powers. There is also a great lack of clarity as to who is negotiating with the EU and with Canada, whether you are or Mr Magnette. That has not been clear to me in the last few days. As I said last week, there is only one way to solve this. The problem is structural, so there must be a structural solution. This means that the Länder are joining the negotiating table of the European Union and no longer Belgium. That autonomy, that's democracy. Now we are working on a mutual locking and blocking and at the end you come up with a typical compromise à la belge. I don't have to anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u22	Mr President, Prime Minister, I have said what I have to say and you have answered the three questions I have asked you about clarifications, the treaty and the future of operations. As far as our group is concerned, we will continue to work, in particular on the examination of the next extremely important treaty: the TTIP. We will be working under the procedure put in place by the Minister for Foreign Affairs with regard to transparent access to all the documents that are under discussion and negotiation. Mr. Hedebouw, you accused everyone of propaganda. It seems to me to have seen, at the hottest moment of the intra-walloon discussions, a statement from you that you were ready to be in a government with the PS. So there's no revolution? Is it over? A little constancy, what the hell! Mr Hedebouw, Trotsky spoke of a permanent revolution, but he did not mean that we had to change our mind all the time!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u23	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is quite simple for us. Green and Ecolo have no taboos and we will evaluate the new Belgian agreement on the basis of one simple criterion, namely that trade agreements should be in the interests of everyone and not just in the interests of multinationals. Let yourself be inspired by another example, an example that proves that things can be different and better. A free trade agreement was concluded between the US and Australia in 2005 without any special arbitration. Australia has opposed such an arbitration clause and the United States has accepted it. Instead of the chunk track of CETA, this example proves that it can be done differently. I note that some of my fellow Members are again making a caricature of what the Walloon Parliament has done, partly on the initiative of my fellow Members from Ecolo. The Walloon Parliament has actually done what one can expect from a normal parliament. I would like to address myself specifically to Mr Dewael. Those who make a caricature of it only increase the distance between citizens and politics. Those who arrogantly accuse people that free trade is the Valhalla and that it is only about freedom are mistaken. Freedom is elitist when freedom and humanity do not go hand in hand. And that is the option that Green puts on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u24	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have talked about caricatures. Mr Hedebouw, you ask what society, what world I actually live in. Mr Hedebouw, I live in one of the most prosperous countries in the world, thanks to the application of principles such as free trade, free entrepreneurship and free market. There is no country in the world where your principles were translated into practice and produced results. On the contrary, that has usually led to poverty, to inflammability and to freedom. That is the reality! Secondly, any freedom must, of course, also have democratic control. We should have more confidence... thanks for the applause, by the way, Mr Hedebouw. We have created a European Union that has brought us unprecedented prosperity since its inception. That Union does not have much exclusive competence. It is usually a confessional model, the sum of partial democracies. I am therefore in favour of a European Parliament which can exercise its full powers in matters which fall exclusively within the competence of Europe. That is my plea, because otherwise we will no longer have to organise European elections and I wonder why all the parties participate in the European elections. I therefore call for more Europe. Thirdly, and finally, world trade will continue, whether you like it or not, and that is a good thing. I would welcome it if the European Union were to put forward its standards. If we, as the European Union, together with Canada and with the United States of America put forward our environmental standards, human rights and so on, then I would much rather see that happen, then that is an evolution which I welcome much more than we should do nothing, afraid if we sit down and allow other economic powers, such as China, to dictate their law. That is the importance of the debate and that is a fundamental democratic debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u25	Mr Minister, you are not doing enough in the fight against the financing of terrorism! This is the conclusion of the Egmont Institute's report, which was published today and which stresses this point. But worse, you are dismantling – this is not the first time that I have complained about it – the Art and Antiquities Unit of the Federal Police, which is fighting precisely against the trafficking of works of art and the links between this trafficking and terrorism. And Interpol is alarmed! Interpol is worried and I have before me the letter that he addressed to the services of the Prime Minister's Chancellery saying that if you persist in wanting to dismantle this Art and Antiquities cell, the traffic in works of art will explode in our country, which is already a hub. I quote: "Belgium has for a long time been a destination country for antiquities and other cultural objects from illicit trafficking and excavations. It will certainly attract even more traffickers." But you are also against the resolutions of the Security Council, which urged Belgium to step up the fight against the financing of terrorism. We know, and you know, that there is a link between trafficking in works of art and terrorism. There is even more, there is a link between one of the perpetrators of the 22 March attacks in Brussels and the trafficking of works of art. I know, I've had confirmation. I ask you, Minister of the Interior, whether you will continue not to hear this Interpol alarm cry, if you are not going to hear this request from the Egmont Institute, if you are going to turn away from the demands of the UN Security Council, or if you are going, at last, to take into account this extremely serious issue of the financing of terrorism, its link with the trafficking of works of art and that you will restore this unit to the level of the Federal Judicial Police and strengthen it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u26	Mr President, Mr Dallemagne, first of all, I would like to inform you that the optimisation of the federal police, decided in 2013, not by me but by my predecessor, results in a maximum deconcentration for the benefit of the boroughs. It's not my decision, it's my predecessor's. The aim was to bring investigators closer to the place where the phenomena occur. With regard to illicit trafficking in art and antiquities, it is not included as a priority either in the list of phenomena in the security framework note or in the National Security Plan 2016-2019. Therefore, the police decided, in accordance with these two plans, to remove this cell. Surveillance of art and antique traffic is included in normal operation. In fact, what is not a priority in the plans is included in normal operation. However, in almost every judicial district, there are specialists in art crime. I also confirm that all stolen items must be recorded in the national database. As far as international cooperation is concerned, there is a single and central point of contact for relations with Interpol, it is the direction of international relations (?). I don't want multiple contact points. When the management of international relations receives a request from Interpol, it can dispatch it to the appropriate Belgian service. With regard to the financing of terrorism and the underlying financial flows, as you know, an extremely important element is a specialized service that aggregates all the elements of financing. There is no need to have different cells for financial flows and for financing. There is a need to globalize. To this end, we have set up this Financial Information Processing Unit, which manages all terrorist financing. We do not want to share this information in different cells. That, in my view, is the appropriate approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u27	Mr.Minister of the Interior, I think it will not have escaped you that serious events occurred between 2013 and 2016. The situation is no longer the same. We have this call here, this very severe warning from Interpol. It asks us not just a contact point, but a centralized expertise, a centralized team, specialists who, day to day, will be able to work on the traffic of works of art throughout the national territory. You're telling me yes! But no, in reality, you're going to work on more general issues! It's an extremely specialized subject. We are here at a crossroads in the legal trade of works of art, but also in the illicit trade. Interpol warns us. I ask you to respond to this request. I would also ask you to respond to the request in response to the findings of the Egmont Institute report. I also ask you to respond to these two Security Council resolutions. We applauded them. They were specifically talking about the traffic in works of art. Your policy and your organization will not be able to respond to what is today – I am sorry to remind you – a priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u28	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the coalition agreement states that we must look at a rationalization of the number of barracks of civil protection. There are three more barracks in Flanders: Brasschaat where you live, Jabbeke where I live and Liedekerke where Mr Schouppe lives. I have already been given a lot of care, for which thanks, in your cabinet to see if we can come to a solution. There's something to say for every barracks in all objectivity. Brasschaat is located at the port of Antwerp with a lot of Seveso plants. Liedekerke serves the port of Ghent with a lot of Seveso companies. Jabbeke serves Zeebrugge with a lot of Seveso companies, the North Sea is nearby and in the case of a flood in West Flanders, I think there is little point in getting the pumps from Liedekerke or Brasschaat. I therefore believe that this is a difficult decision. I personally am not in favour of closing one of the three barracks. So I am not arguing for my municipality or province and against the other provinces. A colonel has decided to close Jabbeke's barracks one in four weeks. This means there won't be an ambulance there anymore. Mr Vice Prime Minister, do you support that decision? Did you make that decision yourself? Are you prepared to withdraw that decision in the interests of the West Flemish people?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u29	Mr President, Mr Bogaert, this was an operational decision taken by operational people and not by myself. You tend to ask for the reform of civil protection as soon as possible. I hope, therefore, that all government parties will be prepared to make a quick decision on this matter. The medical assistance to which you refer will no longer be a task of civil protection in the future. All urgent tasks will be removed in civil protection. That is also the consequence of the reform of the fire zones, a political decision taken by the previous government. All urgent tasks will be transferred to the relief areas. We will implement that decision consistently. In the future, therefore, there will be no place for medical urgency in civil protection. In the meantime, the ambulance service in Jabbeke does indeed fall away one week at four, but that is a similar situation to other circumstances in which the ambulance would be occupied or would fall apart. Then the emergency room 112 plays its normal role and she seeks the nearest ambulance. Operationally, therefore, there will be no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u30	Mr Minister, if you agree with our willingness to compromise, the answer is yes, we are prepared to compromise. This has also been mentioned more than once in your cabinet. Again, for West Flanders it is very important that that barracks stay open. There are rational arguments. The North Sea is nearby. The people of civil protection have already done a lot of good work in the North Sea. If there is a flood in the province of West Flanders and the pumps have to come from Brasschaat or Liedekerke, that is not a good thing. Again, we've done a lot in Jabbeke. That barracks is already heavily rationalized. We are prepared to compromise, but no one has any interest in this ending as a sort of "all' for Flanders, Flanders for Antwerp. We will not agree to that at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u31	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, raising taxes is a regal mission par excellence in a state that respects itself. In order to carry out this task of authority, the finance department concerned, over which you have authority, must be above suspicion. Unfortunately, I regret to say that because I am not happy about it, this department suffers from challenges related, in particular, to budgetary uncertainties. This is not the issue, but it is known that approximations in tax revenues, ineffective measures, sometimes counterproductive, undermine the credibility of the Department of Finance. Today, the situation seems to me to be even more serious. Indeed, the discrediting of the Ministry of Finance does not come from the outside, but from the inside, since it is a director of the ISI, Karel Anthonissen, who files a complaint against the way in which the tax regularization operations have been implemented. This is not insignificant, because the ISI is obviously at the forefront of the fight against tax fraud, an organization that you wanted to strengthen, as you explained to us. The complaint filed is systemic in scope. It does not concern an individual case, but several tens of thousands of cases, and is sent all azimuts. It calls into question the operation itself, as it has been implemented. This has a devastating effect on public opinion, as it learns that EUR 36 billion could be considered as having been money-laundering. At the same time, she learns that justice will be unable to deal with these complaints. There is, of course, a growing sense of fiscal injustice. Mr. Minister of Finance, I would like to hear you speak on this complaint from the Director of the ISI in Ghent. Do you interpret it as a blow of shine, a sword in the water? What is your analysis of the situation? Has your department already conducted an analysis of the issue of tax-prescribed capital? Are you going to take any initiatives before the end of the legal process? The question is important, even if we return to it in the Finance Committee. It is important to hear from you, Minister, because I have the feeling that behind this complaint there is a very strong tension between different services within your department. Is there not a form of dumped war within the ISI, or between the ISI and the Advance Rulings Department, which is somehow similar to the war of the police that was ravaged a few years ago? That's what I want to hear from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u32	Minister, too many Belgians have for too long thought that they could escape the tax dance in our country and that they should not join our tax system like all Belgians. Fortunately, we see that the net is closing more and more and that people are trying to get their capital to Belgium, fortunately with ever stricter rules. I admit, Minister, you have had a difficult inheritance. The past has shown that the system was not fully sound, but fortunately the current government has been able to set up a regularisation round so called that it will be possible for investors to actively demonstrate that the capital is not suspicious before they can regularise it via the tax system. The Belgian administration must organise itself properly. There must be one vision. The una-via system means that a file is handled either by the tax authorities or, in the event of very serious tax fraud, by the Justice Department. In your administration, the Special Tax Inspectorate collected 61 000 files and dropped them into the judicial system. One can ask big questions. Are there so many people who haven't properly filed their declaration that the tax authorities can't take care of it anymore? How can you reconcile this with the una-via system and with the solid agreements between Justice and Finance? Of course, the BBI makes an assessment before she forwards a file to the courthouse. What has been the strategy, parameter or criterion? In the event of serious fraud, a file will do something. Recently, Ghent's appeal court filed a judgment generating 50 million in one file. So it's not about peanuts. I'm sure the Justice Department has done a lot already. New tax magistrates and substitutes have also been recruited this year. There have also been appointments made with your department. Hence my questions, Minister. When will the delegation of staff from the FPS Finance to Justice, to assist Justice, be a fact? In view of the increased workload, this will be more important than ever. When are these Treasury officials coming? Justice is looking forward to it with binoculars. When will the una-viatask force or the consultation between the Justice and Finance Department on the practical handling of the files be fully operational? This is very important for legal certainty and recovery. What was the BBI's underlying strategy of buffering, saving up so many files and not only sending them to the parquet, but also throwing them in the media?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u33	Mr Minister, I also refer to the criminal complaint concerning non-regularised capital in the context of previous regularisation rounds, which Karel Anthonissen, the regional director of the BBI, would have submitted, and to the discussions we held in the Chamber last year on a new regularisation. After all, the cat is now on the rope. It is true that there was simply no possibility at regularisation bis to effectively regularize tax-deprived capital, which meant that there was a real chance that no tax would be paid on part of the repatriated capital. Even in the case of regularisation, only the possibility was provided for and not the obligation for the taxable person to prove the origin of the capital. It was an option, an option, on which the principal himself could decide. At the current regularization, which the coalition has set in motion, that immense loophole is finally closed down. Unlike the previous regularisation rounds, the principal must prove that the capitals have a correct origin. That is fair, both for the taxpayer and for the company. Minister, I have a few specific questions, because there would still be some doubts. In the previous rounds, can anyone who has been forgotten or who has not even had the opportunity in the context of regularisation bis effectively regularise his or her tax-deprecated capital in the current round? According to Article 11, third paragraph of the new Law on regularisation, the tax category and the era to which the income and capital belong must be demonstrated for income as well as for tax-deprived capital. It is important to indicate to those who wish to regularise today, or to their advisers, how this passage of the law should be applied to tax-deprecated capital, for which there is no evidence, as a general rule, such as statements of account or origin. If it is in line with the question, Minister, I would also like to have a small state of affairs in the discussions with the regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u34	Mr. Chair, Minister, this week we learned with some astonishment that complaints had been filed on the initiative of the Director of the ISI Ghent, complaints relating to the tax regularizations introduced in our country between 2004 and 2015. In this case, it is envisaged that the hierarchy should be informed of such complaints. Can you confirm that this has been the case and that you have been informed? Secondly, it must be stressed that the elements of the file show a certain sense of confusion or even lack of clarity. Indeed, the complaints filed seem to put the four successive systems of DLU on the same footing, whereas in reality they do not have the same scope in terms of taxation and criminality. As such, could you provide us with clarifications? An amount of EUR 36 billion has been advanced. Does this estimate hold the road? Do you confirm these figures or do you have any other data? Finally, I would remind you that the DLU system is working well in our country. It has already raised 3 billion euros. It makes it possible to bring money back into the public finances, but also, more broadly, into our economy. This system has proved its worth, but in order to function properly, it needs legal certainty and a minimum of trust between the parties concerned. Minister, can we be certain that these events are not likely to jeopardize the current ULD? If we want to maintain this system and make sure it works, we need to clarify things and give us full legal guarantees.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u35	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, the Director General of the ISI has indeed filed a criminal complaint. His complaint concerns the treatment of black capital prescribed during the previous regularizations. The Regional Director concerned has the right to file this complaint. I asked the deputy head of the ISI for clarification as to how this action came about. As you know, we discussed this issue yesterday in the Finance Committee. The deputy head may also provide explanations to the Finance Committee. It is now up to the Public Prosecutor's Office to respond to this complaint. The separation of powers, which I strictly respect, means that I do not intervene in this matter. During previous regularization rounds, the aged black capitals did not, or hardly, come into sight. During the first two regularization rounds they fell completely outside the scope. In the third round an opening was made, which was non-binding. It was therefore possible to indicate, but there was absolutely no obligation. In the tax regularisation that is now in place, the obligation is there; statute of limitations must also be indicated. The current regime is therefore more stringent. So stop giving gifts to the wealthy. Moreover, the current scheme has the advantage of clarity and legal certainty, both for the tax authorities, for the BBI and for taxpayers. At the same time, there is intensive work on cooperation between Justice and Finance, both in terms of procedures and staff. This is particularly important in this respect. Mr van de Velde, to answer your very specific question, there is indeed the possibility of re-entering those who have come from previous regularisation rounds. For tax-deprecated capitals, unlike non-deprecated income, the regularisation declaration did not make a detailed breakdown by the different types of taxes. There is a uniform rate of 36%, which increases in the following years, irrespective of the year in which the income was obtained. A further split is therefore not necessary in order to be able to process the regularisation declaration correctly. Moreover, the era referred to in Article 11, third paragraph of the Law on regularisation does not require annual split-up for old-age capital. The age of tax-depleting capital is the period before the expiry of the time limits referred to in Article 2, 11° of the Law on Regularisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u36	Mr President, a word first, if you will, to Mr Calomne. "The DLU is a well-functioning system": it seems to me that the controversy we are facing today is the demonstration that the system is not working well. There is clearly legal uncertainty, since, at the very heart of the state apparatus, within the Special Inspectorate of Taxes, the way in which things have been carried out is questioned. So it cannot be said that things are working well. On the contrary, there is a insecurity which I believe is of great importance and which has not been lifted. Minister, you are sheltering behind the separation of powers. As far as principles are concerned, I can understand that. But at the very heart of your services, it seems to me that differences of appreciation must be resolved. I do not say this in a dispute between the opposition and the majority, but it is really the very functioning of the state apparatus that worries me. The Court of Auditors, in its analysis of regularisation operations, has on several occasions already questioned the fact that the flow of information is not optimal. In a 2008 report, the Commission stressed that the "Regularisation" point of contact did not transmit all relevant information to local tax authorities. More recently, in an audit report in 2013, it re-emphasized the fact that the Memorandum of Understanding between the Advance Rulings Service and the FPS Finances needs to be assessed and assessed on a regular basis. It seems to me that in this respect there is still a long way to go to restore some order inside the house. I think there is an urgent need because, in a way, I have the impression that there is a fire in the FPS Finances.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. An important principle is that whoever has sinned will somehow have to pay. A reaction such as the fish Dory in the film of the same name, which claims to suffer from long-term memory loss, will of course not be possible in that case. So we cannot allow some sort of residual category to arise now because people do not know exactly what happened in the past and we would therefore just cover it up with the cloak of love. We must create clarity for society and also for the fiscal sinner. The government and also the good taxpayers must not be challenged by waiting for regularisation. I am particularly addressing this appeal to those who would still have some doubts about it. After all, once a criminal investigation has started, there can be no more regularisation and even more stringent action will be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for the clarity you are creating with regard to the tax-deprived capitals. Until now, there have been a number of different advices within the legal profession. It is important to make it clear now what these tax-depleting capitals must do. Income is also important; especially the opposition refers to it. In the case of previous regularisations, it has always taken some time before the income came in. I think we should give the system time to get started. Minister, I am also pleased that you have approved an amendment with the government to ensure that the regularisation action can be granted to the Prior Decision Service. That will also be another step forward. With all the committees, special committees and committees of inquiry that are currently running, I think that this gremium is perfectly suited to streamline the various existing procedures in the area of finance and justice. So we can continue with a good organization to tackle fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u39	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am pleased to hear that you are in contact with the deputy head and that we will have an opportunity to discuss this matter with him. As Mr. Dispa called me, I would like to answer him. The fourth DLU allows for clarification and provides legal certainty. So we are moving in the right direction. However, it is important to inform public opinion in this regard if we are to preserve the system and ensure that it works well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u40	Mr President, Madam Minister, we have all been able to note the doubts – this is an understatement – of the European Commission about the proper conduct of the budgets that you have presented to it. You will understand quite easily that we are not surprised. That is why I would like to raise here with you the question of this budgetary "onion", which sees one of its skins peeling off every day. Indeed, your budget has not yet been tabled in Parliament, which it continues to feed and make cry critical and controversial, especially with regard to revenue. I will only talk here about the 2016 fiscal year. In this regard, a few small reminders are not superfluous. You had programmed EUR 250 million for tax regularization. What are we learning today? That a handful of folders are introduced. In short, there is only you to believe that it will actually bring you 250 million euros. As far as the new tax system for sicafi is concerned, you have also programmed EUR 250 million while the Court of Auditors directs you to retain only half of that amount. Is it necessary to talk about the Cayman tax on which a member of your majority explained to us that it would pay a maximum of EUR 40 million, i.e. only 10% of the expected yield, i.e. 460 million? On the other hand, there is a fiasco of excise duties on spirits that report less than the revenues recorded prior to their increase. That's to tell you if you have to deal with a collection of problems! We must of course not forget the tax on speculation which, in total, pays less because of the decrease in the revenue on the tax on stock exchange transactions, tax on speculation which you will remove without any guarantee that a tax on capital gains will be introduced under this legislature. I would also like to bear in mind one important element of the overall picture, namely the constant decline in income from personal savings and VAT. Minister, the findings are clear. Not only does your economic policy lead to a decline in revenues and a worsening of deficits, but in addition, the returns of your new measures fall one after the other. You presented us with a big "onion" budget. But from peel that detachs in peel that detachs, your onion is more and more like a small shallots! Minister, how long will your budget go down?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u41	Mr President, Mr Laaouej, thank you for this cooking class or almost! At first, the subject of your inquiry was, if I am not mistaken, the warning of the European Commission. This is how you interpret the document we received. I do not know if you have read this letter, but I have read it, as well as those sent to other countries that have submitted their draft budget plan. Indeed, the European Commission has questions that we are still in the process of answering. This is a whole series of new measures for which it is normal to ask questions. The letter is not a warning. The warning, for example, was made for other countries. If you have read all the documents that have been published, it was specified, inter alia, for Italy, Cyprus and Finland, that there was a risk of non-compliance with European budgetary objectives. This is not the case for Belgium. In the press this morning, Commissioner Moscovici recalled that Europe did not intend to reject Belgium's draft budget plan. As far as the issue of tax revenues is concerned, it is a real question. As noted above, expected income does not reflect actual income. That is why we have planned a buffer, mainly to deal with this problem, as well as, during the budget conclave, the start of a task force in order to assess the reasons for this differential and to propose the best remedy. In conclusion, the European Commission, by the statements of Commissioner Moscovici, does not intend to reject our draft budget plan. We will see, once she has completed her study and answered all the questions, what she will ultimately do. Mr Laaouej, I may also encourage you to wait and read what we will table at the budget level to make your comment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u42	Mr President, apart from the minute I am given for my reply, I would still like to tell you what follows. It was clear that my question was about tax revenues. I don't know what's going on in the government. We have not objected to Mrs Wilmès responding. However, I think I made it clear to the Minister of Finance that my question was about tax revenues. Finally, I hear you're surprised you don't have a question about this. I think there's more to it than a misunderstanding. I wonder, Madam Group Leader: next time, will we have to be as flexible as we are today? I'm surprised how you did it. Minister, in essence, your government is facing a triple failure. The first is your austerity policy. Your obsession with cutting off public services and social security, while you multiply gifts to the big boss, has not led to anything economically. Second failure: your tax policy. By increasing consumption taxes so massively, by taking at least three billion from the household pocket over the legislature, you have caused the mistrust of our fellow citizens. That too, Minister, is very bad for the economy, and for domestic demand in particular. Your third failure is your fiscal policy. Not only does your economic policy increase the deficit in public finances, but in addition, your new measures, which are supposed to bring about resources, are collapsing one after the other. In short, your policy is ineffective in addition to being unfair. It is high time to stop this disaster, which seems to suit you, but which results, for the population, in increasing difficulties. In the face of your triple failure, I am sending you a triple message: stop pushing people into precariousness, stop the sloppyness of our public finances, and then, above all, stop your anti-social policy: it leads to the fiscal, economic and social ruin of our country!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u43	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, your motto is strict but fair. I'd like to do a fact check on that one. Strict? I don't think anyone's doubting that, maybe I'm a little bit. Right? You say you are humane to the most vulnerable and strict to those who abuse our hospitality. About a year ago, in July 2015, you showed a demonstration of humanity, when, in collaboration with a private association, a Belgian humanitarian operation was launched in which 244 Christians from Aleppo were brought here in one go. A number of legal steps had to be taken to make this right. For the sake of clarity, we have responded broadly to this action. That is why I find it so surprising that you have so hard resisted, twice before, a decision of your own Council for Foreign Affairs. You are opposed to this, I think that is rather inconsistent, because you measure a family with two sizes and two weights at its own expense, who takes the initiative to transfer friends in a legal way and who also wants to commit to it. You're quite persistent in that resistance, and I'd like to know why. I have two questions. Firstly, did the humanitarian mission on 244 Syrian Christians undermine the European asylum system? Secondly, why don't we work out a system... (the chairman interrupts) Mr President, you always give everyone else a great deal of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u44	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u45	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u46	I'd keep going if I were you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u47	Why do we not work out a system such as that in Canada? It has just been said that Canada is a very popular country in which citizens or organisations can apply for a kind of humanitarian visa for friends or family who are in a war situation and want to flee so that they do not have to call on smugglers? Those citizens will take responsibility for that. In Canada, such a system has been developed with quotas. One should not do so without limit, so that one knows how many families or volunteers are allowed to do so per year. I've already asked about it in committee. I'd like to get a serious answer to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u48	Mrs. De Coninck, for your information, you have spoken for three minutes and fifteen seconds.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u49	Mr Van de Velde also spoke about taxation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u50	Mr Franken, what is the price of dignity for you? What is the price of a dignified country, which respects the right of asylum and the decisions imposed by the courts in this regard? What is the price for you of the dignity of a family, who refuses to join networks of smugglers, against whom we all fight, to escape Aleppo's horror and desolation? Mr Franken, what is the price to you of the lives of Syrian parents and Syrian children aged five and eight who are trying to escape a dangerous crossing of the Mediterranean? Hard to say, isn't it, because dignity and life have no price! In this situation, they do not even have a cost, because the citizens in question will be cared for by a Namibian family, ready to welcome them, Syrian family, to whom you, Mr Franken, refuse a short-stay visa. On the other hand, thanks to, or because of, you, shame, today has a cost, i.e. 4,000 euros a day for taxpayers, since the state was sentenced by the court of first instance, because of your refusal to give these parents, these children, a visa. So, Mr. Franken, how long are you going to deny what the most elementary humanity imposes on all living beings? How much longer, in the name of your shameful ideological posture, will you deny what the justice of our country has said for its right?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u51	Mr Secretary of State, the situation has been outlined. I'd like to call for a break from the individual case. Should you or I be asked personally, we might want to help, receive and protect all refugees. But we are politicians, and we have to take into account rules, laws and borders. You cannot be held responsible for the 60 million refugees fleeing the world. That's unrealistic, that's weird. Mrs De Coninck, one visa may not make the difference. That's your question. But if a judge forces the Secretary of State to issue a visa, or in general to issue visas, in order to apply for asylum in Belgium, the gate will be opened. Then the Secretary of State will also be responsible for the 60 million refugees worldwide. In addition, all the rules, all the principles, all the procedures relating to asylum and migration are completely abandoned. This would create a very dangerous precedent. Rather than condemning the State to payment of sums of money, of a penalty payment, one would be better, as the Secretary of State says, even more bets on what we already do. The funds need to be used more on resettlement and, above all, on reception in the region, as this will save those involved in the sometimes dangerous crossing. Mr Secretary of State, I urge you, on behalf of my group as a whole, not to give in to this blackmail and to use all the democratic means that you have the right to oppose this gross excess of power.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary of State, the situation is well known and has already been sufficiently outlined by the previous speakers. If there is anything that we wanted with the current government, but also with previous governments, then it is going to be long, expensive legal proceedings and heavy periodic penalty payments. Mrs De Coninck, whatever the current government wants, is a strict but also humane asylum policy. That's right. This means that we accept those who have the right to asylum, but we also monitor the influx and deal with any abuses. We have been pursuing a resettlement policy in this country for a few years, with the weakest people in the world in our country being able to be protected. Today, however, this is not a dossier of resettlement. It is a humanitarian visa. For the sake of clarity, this is not a right but a favour granted by a government or minister. It's a favor, so there are no fixed criteria in the law. I hear you asking if this is wet fingering. Of course, that is not the case. DVZ conducts a thorough investigation and looks at each individual case. The service itself has criteria that it applies. We are confident that DVZ will carry out thorough research and make well-founded statements on the basis of concrete dossiers and facts. I will not comment on the specific dossier in question. Besides, we never read the full story in a newspaper. The procedure is ongoing. This is a rule of law, where there is a separation of powers. Of course, everyone can appeal, including the government and also you, Mr Secretary of State. You are right when you say that we should not create suction effects. However, let us be clear that we must try as much as possible to avoid such procedures and periodic penalty payments. That is why I have very specific questions for you. Firstly, can you give the Chamber more clarity about any appropriate context? Secondly, the next question is even more important. Do you consider including criteria for humanitarian visas in the law? Is that desirable? What are the advantages and disadvantages of making a favour a possible additional legal channel?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you have all heard, the day before yesterday I was sentenced to issue a visa to a Syrian family so that it could apply for asylum in Belgium. The judgment is subject to a penalty payment of EUR 4 000 per day. So far, every visa application from this family has been rejected. I would like to emphasise the word 'all'. After all, the father of the family has already visited our consulate in Beirut three times in person to apply for a visa for Belgium. He did so for the first time in October 2015; after that he did so again in December 2015 and, finally, went to the consulate a third time in August 2016. In the first two applications, he gave the reason for visiting friends in Belgium. The visa applications were logically refused because there was not enough financial guarantee. The latest application, which he submitted to our consulate two months ago, explicitly stated the reason for applying for asylum in Belgium. The refusal of that visa application was appealed to the RV, which destroyed the decision of the government and at the same time decided that the government should grant the visa. I challenge the judgment legally, because in my opinion it is contrary to the foreign law and to the basic principles of administrative law. After all, the law requires that it is my discretionary competence to grant or refuse short-stay visas. The Council for Aliens' Contests may review the legality of the decision and, if necessary, destroy it, but it may never impose on the government what decision to take. That has happened in this case, and that is unseen. Since I will challenge the judgment of the RV, I will also challenge the Brussels court's judgment in first instance, which is based on that judgment. I will therefore appeal both decisions and exhaust all legal remedies available to me in full justice for the separation of powers and with full confidence in our rule of law. Lawyers are allowed to use procedures against my services to defend the individual interests of their clients, but I am also entitled to appeal to safeguard the general interest that I must defend. But, ladies and gentlemen, above all, I believe that both judicial decisions are contrary to the Geneva Convention itself and to the European Convention on Human Rights. The Convention on Refugees, the Geneva Convention, obliges us to give people protection when they apply for it on their own territory. This means applying for asylum when you are in Belgium; it does not apply to people abroad. The European Convention on Human Rights does not apply to them either. This applies only in Europe, on European territory. No country which is a member of the Geneva Convention, which has therefore signed the Convention, i.e. virtually every country in the world, except the rich Arab Gulf states, allows for a right of visa to be enforced in order to be admitted to a country in order to apply for asylum. The case in question is therefore a very dangerous matter of principle. Let me therefore be very clear. I will exhaust all the legal means of not having to deliver that visa. Doing so would create an extremely dangerous precedent. In doing so, I would make Belgium the first and only country in the world where a judge could oblige the government to issue visas in order to apply for asylum in Belgium. With that, I would launch a real rush at our embassies and consulates in Ankara, Istanbul, Amman and Beirut. It would open the gate to complete asylum chaos, leading, at worst, to the closure of those consulates. The case is now brought back to one family, but where does it stop? There are six times as many war refugees in the world as there are inhabitants of this country. And what about all the people who claim persecution by their government? What about all the sick people who cannot receive adequate medical treatment in their own country? Again, where does it stop? Should we give asylum to the whole world? I do not think that was ever the intention of the founding fathers of the Geneva Convention, of which Belgium is one, and certainly not of the government. No, I will not allow myself to be thrown into an asylum chaos by this country and our consulates. On the other hand, together with my fellow MEPs, I will put an end to the asylum chaos. We are firmly opting for reception in the region and, in budgetary tight times, we are spending more money than ever. We are also doing as much asylum migration from the region as possible, Mrs De Coninck. Do you know that the government grants four times more humanitarian visas than all the governments before that? We do what we can in particularly difficult and harsh times. We do that for the most vulnerable. We fly in hundreds of people every year from the refugee camps in the region. This is done on the basis of resolution and they are selected by UNHCR. We accept our responsibility, but on a scale that does not exceed our capacity. We do this on our own initiative. It's the government that has to have the last word in this. It is not the refugee himself who should be given the last word, because that would, of course, create chaos. We must take account of the individual interest, but we must not lose sight of the general interest. Under no circumstances should the decision to gain access to Belgium, by a judge or a refugee from the region itself be taken. That is the government's position. As far as Canada is concerned, Mrs De Coninck, you should see where that is on the globe. You should take a look at the asylum statistics and the influx into Canada. Nobody applies for asylum in Canada. They are indeed only flying refugees in because no one is applying for asylum in Canada. We get between ten and twenty thousand asylum applications every year. Last year there were 45 000. These are people who are fleeing and come from areas bordering Europe. That is, of course, a fundamental difference. I also said this to my Canadian colleague at the United Nations Summit. In relation to the Christians, I can say that was also a choice. This is a discretionary power. It wasn't an obligation that was imposed. We also issue humanitarian visas. We have to do the same. I'm one hundred percent behind that. What are the criteria, however? For example, it is about having a family member in our country. A woman, for example, is with a child here. She is in an asylum procedure and also applies for a visa for the man who is still with another child in the home country or a neighbouring country. In such cases, humanitarian visas shall be granted. To say that one is friends with a certain family who will take care of them is not sufficient to justify the issue of a humanitarian visa. That has not happened in the past. That did not happen under the previous government. Nor will that happen under the present government. That used to be no different than it is now. Nothing's changed at all. Mrs Gabriels spoke about the discussion concerning the inclusion of criteria in the law. Mr Dewael is perfectly aware of the need to be careful with criteria in the law, both for humanitarian visas and for humanitarian regularisation. I trust my administration. DVZ has a very difficult job in the federal administration, a very difficult social task and, in my opinion, keeps the balance right day after day. I am not in favour of registering the criteria in the law, because I am not at all convinced of their added value. That would set in motion a major legal battle. Today again shows how difficult it is to respect the balance sheet.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u54	Mr Secretary of State, you have actually re-proposed the whole of your policy letter, but that does not answer you. I am tired of black-and-white thinking, and I am rather tired of exaggerating it, because you are well aware that we also support some of your principles. I've told you that a few times. I just wanted to make a constructive proposal for people in our society. Mr Dewael always says that we live in a very free country, the ideal country of the world. My intention is to explore what citizens can do in situations where they are present and how we can set up a system where citizens are given opportunities to assume responsibilities, but, for the sake of clarity, not without limits. Once again, I urge you to seriously consider my proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u55	Mr Franken, your position is a shame to this country, to this government. Stop hiding behind legal arguments to defend what is only an ideological point of view. Your demonstration in the gallery – we thought at the N-VA convention – just confirms it. Today, Secretary of State, you have the opportunity to save a family with two children. And you don't. You have the opportunity to save a family from Aleppo's hell. And your position remains to say no, despite a legal decision. I tell you straight in your eyes, Mr. Franken: your attitude is that of the accomplice of Aleppo's murderers. And the PS won't be your accomplice. I appeal to your conscience. I mean, if you still have one!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u56	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Condemning Belgium to pay a penalty payment is nothing more than a gross exceedance of the important principle of the separation of powers. As you yourself said, it is up to you to decide discretionaryly on the issue of a visa, not the courts to enforce it. That is a form of govern ment of justice, and we must not tolerate it. This would mean complete chaos and completely undermine the whole asylum and migration policy, with its good principles, such as resettlement of refugees and reception in the region. Thankfully, you emphasised that. I ask you to fight with all the legal remedies available to you that this would become a general principle. To the French-speaking judge of the Council for Foreign Affairs, I would like to say: shoemaker, stick to your reading.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u57	Mr Secretary of State, you did not get into this chair to carry out an easy task. You should make rational judgements on individual and sometimes difficult, emotional dossiers. You are doing the same, and we fully support you in that. The question I asked was an open question and you answered it clearly, for which I thank you. I had started my introduction by saying that we have a great deal of confidence in your services, which examine every case, on a case-by-case basis, in detail. We too do not want chaos, but legal certainty, hence the questions I asked you. Mrs De Coninck, of course we are an open and free society, and within the limited possibilities and with all the legal instruments available to us, we will give all the people who can be received here the opportunity to build a decent life in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u58	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u59	By e-mail dated 20 October 2016, independent MPs Hendrik Vuye and Veerle Wouters inform me that they wish to sit as a non-approved group called Vuye&Wouters. By email dated October 20, 2016, independent members Hendrik Vuye and Veerle Wouters inform me that they wish to form an unrecognized group known as Vuye&Wouters.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u60	At the plenary session of 2 April 2015, Ms Marie-Rose Farineau was appointed member of the Supervisory Body on Police Information for the mandate of French-speaking member of the local police. During the plenary session of April 2, 2015 Marie-Rose Farineau was appointed a member of the Police Information Review Body for the term of francophone member of the local police. Since Mrs Marie-Rose Farineau did not obtain the security clearance of the level "very secret" and therefore cannot take the oath, the Chamber of Representatives should appoint a new member of the Supervisory Body for the mandate of a French-speaking member of the local police. Ms Marie-Rose Farineau has not obtained the security clearance of the "very secret" level and therefore cannot take an oath, so the House of Representatives must proceed to the appointment of a new member of the Supervisory Body for the term of French-speaking member of the local police. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 26 October 2016, a call for candidates will be published in the Belgian Official Journal. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 26 October 2016, a call for candidates will be published in the Belgian Moniteur. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u61	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 15 September 2016, two calls for candidates were published in the Belgian Official Journal of 20 September 2016, one for the President and the two members of the Disciplinary Board and another for the Registrars. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 15 September 2016, two appeals to the candidates were published in the Belgian Monitor of 20 September 2016, one for the President and the two members of the Disciplinary Council and one for the Registrars. Only one application was submitted within the prescribed time limit. Only one application was submitted within the prescribed time limit. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 26 October 2016, I propose that two more calls be made to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal, one for the President and the two members of the Disciplinary Board and another for the Registrars. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 26 October 2016, I propose that you reissue two calls for candidates to the Belgian Monitor, one for the President and the two members of the Disciplinary Council and one for the Registrars. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u62	At the request of the authors, I propose the legislative proposal (Mr Robert Van de Velde, Mrs Sophie De Wit and Mr Johan Klaps) amending several provisions to improve the enforcement of the annual accounts, No. 1587/1, to be referred to the Committee on Trade and Economic Law. At the request of the authors, I propose that you refer to the Committee on Commercial and Economic Law the bill (Mr Robert Van de Velde, Mrs Sophie De Wit and Mr Johan Klaps) amending various provisions with a view to improving compliance with the rules on the deposit of annual accounts, No 1587/1. This bill was previously sent to the Finance and Budget Committee. This proposal had previously been referred to the Committee on Finance and the Budget. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I also propose to you the legislative proposal (Mr Siegfried Bracke) amending the Act of 6 January 2014 establishing a Federal Deontological Commission to insert the Deontological Code for Public Managers, No. 2098/1, refer to the Committee on the Revision of the Constitution and the Reform of the Institutions. I also propose that you refer to the Committee on the Revision of the Constitution and the Reform of Institutions, the bill (Mr Siegfried Bracke) amending the Act of 6 January 2014 establishing a Federal Commission of Ethics with a view to inserting the Code of Ethics for Public Officials, No. 2098/1. This bill was previously sent to the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration. This proposal had previously been referred to the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u63	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u64	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law on various provisions relating to the posting of workers, No. 2091/1. The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the bill on various provisions concerning the posting of workers, No. 2091/1. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request. As is customary in the meantime, I ask Minister Peeters for a statement of reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government is calling for urgent consideration of the draft law on the posting of workers. This draft law transposes Directive 2014/67 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the enforcement of Directive 96/71 concerning the posting of workers in Belgian law. The urgency treatment is justified by two arguments. Firstly, the deadline for transposition. Due to the somewhat later advice of the social partners in the NAR, the transposition deadline of 18 June 2016 was not met. It is important to complete the transposition before the European Commission initiates the procedure for default. Moreover, in the context of the negotiations on the adaptation of the Posting of Workers Directive, it is logical that the previous step, the transposition of the Enforcement Directive, has already been taken. The second argument is the difficult economic situation of sectors suffering from social fraud and unfair competition, such as the construction sector. The provisions provide, inter alia, additional tools for inspection services to combat fraudulent secondments. Mr President, for these two reasons we are asking for urgent treatment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u66	Mrs Fonck, we are not used to having a debate on an emergency request. But exceptionally, and on the condition that you commit yourself to being brief, I will give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u67	Mr President, I will be very brief. [[I heard the government's arguments.]] We had a first debate yesterday in committee. But I would like to recall here that the directive dates back to 2014. It was to be transposed by 18 June. Yesterday, I heard colleagues from the majority say, like the members of the opposition, that this transposition of the directive should have been much more ambitious. It is true that we are faced with minimalist transposition. Mr President, Mr Minister, I plead that we should not vote urgently on this issue so that we can have a constructive and much more ambitious work in committee and provide for levers. Indeed, as far as both workers and employers are concerned, the stakes of this problem in employment and the fight against social dumping are very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u68	Mr President, I would like to address you. We receive an urgent request from this government in almost every plenary session. We have already come to the point where we are given a justification for the request for urgency. What I do not understand, however, is that the discussion of the draft law was started yesterday in the Committee on Social Affairs, but that the urgency is still being called for today. I understand that there is an urgent need for a dossier which has not yet been discussed, and which has yet to be discussed, but if draft legislation is already being discussed in committee, I find it strange that the government is still asking for urgency. This shows little confidence in the opposition, while there is no argument to ask for urgent treatment, Mr President. I am addressing you, Mr President. If draft laws are already under discussion, I would ask that no further urgency be requested in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u69	I take note of your statement. I have also taken note of the government's reasons. I shall submit the request for urgency to the Members of Parliament in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u70	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration of 19 October 2016. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service on 19 October 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 172/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Veli Yüksel. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 172/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Veli Yüksel. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u71	Mr President, I look forward to the governor's annual report every year, but unfortunately the figures he brings are worse year after year. I'll get two figures out of it. More than 65% of the files on recruitment and promotions by the Brussels municipalities were not in line with the language rules. As far as the OCMWFs in Brussels were concerned, the figure was 89 percent. In both cases, therefore, even worse than the year before. Logically, I have seen the Minister responsible for language legislation. There are enough resources that he could use to force the Brussels level, which is responsible for control and which is not doing so, to do so. It is possible to amend the legislation by changing the control, or to file conflicts of interest. The Minister could write a circular letter. He could raise this point on the Conciliation Committee. You name it. Perhaps there is also a court-martial way through which action can be taken. I may forget that the Minister has opportunities to do something about it. Until today, however, he refuses to take any action in this area. He raises his umbrella and says it's not his jurisdiction, but of course he doesn't. Hence my motion of recommendation to do something about this problem and to encourage the Minister to address at least the cases he has denounced in the past, now that he has the power to do so. It is not covered by the Community omerta, it is no more and no less than the application of the existing legislation. It would therefore be logical for this motion to be approved.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u72	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Everyone has -Does he vote and check his vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 83 Yes No. 48 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u73	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 10 November 2016. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, November 10, 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u74	Mr. Chairman, in view of the order of business, I have just reviewed rule 51 of the Rules, which states in paragraph 2 that "in relation to bills and proposals, urgency may be requested by the government at the latest at the time of the tabling of a bill in the House." I therefore conclude that the request which has just been made is absolutely not in conformity with point 2 of Article 51. I will not ask colleagues to prolong today's plenary session, but I would ask, in any case, for this matter to be discussed in the Conference of Presidents next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u75	Mrs. Fonck, I heard you. You are right, this point is well specified in our Rules of Procedure. What strikes me is the mention on the copy of the bill: 的De spoedbehandeling wordt door de regering gevraagd. You are, of course, right in your reference. We will discuss this in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u76	Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Fonck for her correct reading of the Rules of Procedure, which confronts us with a very important question for the forthcoming Conference of Presidents. I would ask you to make a complete overview of the various designs that are still under way. I myself can mention a second draft, in particular the draft on Mrs Marghem's nuclear contribution, for which the urgency was requested at a plenary session later than the submission. It concerns the drafts covered by that provision and in which that provision has not been respected. I would also like to ask that we consider this list at the forthcoming Conference of Presidents. In this respect, the Rules of Procedure are best applied correctly. It's certainly not the only design. After all, there is at least a second example. Mr Van Hecke whispered to me that in the Committee on Justice a number of drafts had a similar course. So this is an important matter for next Wednesday.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-27-54-plenair-ip137x.u77	We will discuss the issue at the Conference of Presidents on Wednesday 9 November 2016. In the meantime, the agenda has been adopted and that means the end of the sitting. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 10 November 2016 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 10 November 2016, at 2.15 p.m.
