ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Hoof's 8378 question is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u2	Madam President, Madam Minister, last month a group of advertisers launched a remarkable film, especially in terms of motivation. They talked about an increasing shortage of young creative talents, and they wanted to combat this scarcity by going to the UZ Brussels sperm bank massively. In this way, it was intended to father as many creative babies as possible. As a close, there was a general call for donation. The university hospital was actively involved in this. The general call I can understand. There is indeed a shortage, but I share the opinion of Professor-genetic Jean-Jacques Cassiman, who said in Het Nieuwsblad that there was a very light-hearted way of dealing with a fact that is particularly sensitive to many people. Not to mention the fact that the truth is being violated. Of course, it is not so simple that the sperm donation of a number of creative young people ensures that more creative babies are born. Nor do we want to evolve towards such a situation. The video may be funny and undoubtedly well-intentioned, but I wonder if it's appropriate. Ethical, but also scientifically there are undoubtedly the necessary reservations to formulate. In particular, the active cooperation of the hospital seems to affect the limits of the law to the utmost. Fertility centres should not use advertising today to actively recruit donors. In my opinion, therefore, active cooperation in such an advertising stunt is questionable. Madam Secretary, therefore my question. To what extent do you think it is permissible for a hospital with a fertility centre within the given legal framework to actively participate in such a commercial that contains a clear call for donation? Apart from that, I do agree with the real deficit that exists today. Perhaps you could also tell us if you are considering a national campaign in any other way to respond to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u3	Mrs. Van Peel, I didn't see this. I should have looked it up. Actually, I'm barely watching TV. Article 5 of the Law of 19 December 2008 states that advertising for the disposal or handling of human body material, including semen, is prohibited. An exception is provided for public awareness campaigns for allogeneic donation of human body material solely in the interest of public health. The distinction between advertising on the one hand and awareness campaigns in the sole interest of public health on the other is not easy to make. Campaigns conducted by the fertility sector will, however, serve other interests in addition to public health. In itself, I am not reluctant to conduct campaigns by the sector with the aim of making the public aware of the donation of semen in an ethically acceptable way. The video you're referring to seems to have been made with a very different goal if I can believe the creators of it. They want to address the shortage of students who choose creative directions and highlight the problems of creative agencies to find young talent. If one had limited themselves to that message, I think there would have been nothing wrong with the video. Then the beginning of it could be found quite funny. At the same time, the link is made with the donation of sperm which makes the law applicable to the human body material. I don't know if that's a tough thing to do. The question now is whether the conditions of that law are fulfilled. I think we both know the answer to that. It is up to the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products to decide whether this video meets the legal requirements and to act if it proves that it does not. We're talking about a commercial. When I hear that they had the permission, I can assume that a recognized fertility centre knows that particular law. What exactly happened, I don't know, but I find it hard to make the turn. I think we should signal that this is a bridge too far. It could be an assignment for the FPS Public Health to find other methods within the existing framework to address this problem that may be less funny, but show more respect for those involved. These people don't think it's funny at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u4	Madam Minister, it can be called funny, but it is difficult to discuss what is funny and what is not. Here, whether or not it is intended for a way that is very sensitive for a lot of people. Secondly, I find it more problematic, in particular the cooperation with one of the fertility centres themselves, which should be familiar with this legislation. In my view, they have gone very clearly out of the loop here. If I understand you correctly, they will be called upon to do so or perhaps even fined. That is what the FAGG will have to judge. I assume, however, that the file will be there. The fertility center apparently wanted to point out that there is a shortage of sperm donors. This is also common conscience. You point out that you are considering whether the FPS can develop a more ethically responsible and general campaign, which is aimed not at a single fertility centre but at the problem itself. Maybe trouble is the wrong word. The fact that this campaign is a matter for review is a statement in which I fully support you. I hope to hear you say that again in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u5	Madam President, Mrs Van Peel, one of the important issues is the whole debate on the anonymity of gametes. That clearly has an influence. As long as that discussion has not been cleared up, regardless of what you think about it in one direction or another, we will not attract any new donors. In that case, we are indeed dependent on foreign banks. We are particularly appealing to the Danish banks in this respect. So we will have lots of blonde babies with blue eyes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u6	Madam Secretary, for the record, the file is not in the Senate. It certainly is here on the committee. I'll follow you there, too. As soon as such a debate is launched, foreign examples, where the discussion has already been decided, have proved so, it should be closed as soon as possible and it should be clarified as soon as possible. After all, the debate creates a relapse, because a new donor does not know what story he is enrolling in. So I fully endorse that. Our majority is also working hard on this issue. For me, we need to come up with a good proposal very quickly. In that case, a campaign will be needed anyway, which we already need today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u7	Madam President, Mrs Van Peel, there is currently no legal certainty for donors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u8	These texts have been pending for many months already.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u9	It's not easy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u10	Indeed! I also think it would be interesting to be able to discuss it in committee before we have any final texts, so that there is an exchange following the hearings, which does not prevent the majority from agreeing on something.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u11	Minister, Mr Peeters has just answered a parliamentary question about controls in tanning centres. This response highlighted a significant drop in controls. He therefore announced a strengthening of controls, which was already in the resolution aimed at improving the education and early detection of skin cancers in order to stop their steady and rapid progress voted in the Federal Parliament on 17 July 2013. The resolution also called for intensified, with the collaboration of the federated entities, public information campaigns on the characteristics of skin cancer; increased prevention messages and adapted them to the various target audiences and maintained public awareness of risk behaviours; an assessment of the relevance of including skin cancer screening in the DMG+ prevention checklist, carried out by general practitioners in their patients aged 45 and over; and support general practitioners by developing more training and information tools. So my questions are as follows. What have you achieved with regard to the implementation of this resolution? Have any adaptations been made with regard to the continuing training of doctors? Were these elements discussed at the Interdepartmental Conference on Public Health? If so, what progress has been made? If not, when will this issue be put on the agenda? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u12	I would remind you that early detection and prevention campaigns, as well as the teaching and training of doctors, are the responsibility of the federated entities. In the case of skin cancers, it is important to continue to report the risks of using tanning centres to the public. As regards prevention in general, a Memorandum of Understanding on prevention is being prepared for the Interministerial Conference. This protocol will provide a framework for achieving a coherent policy between the federated entities and the federal authority. Currently, no federated entity has made a specific request for an early skin cancer screening program. In Germany, there was a pilot project in Schleswig-Holstein which resulted in a national screening programme. A first evaluation of this national programme for 2008-2013 was published in Deutsches Ärzteblatt International in September 2015. La conclusion générale était: "The introduction of nationwide skin cancer screening in 2008 has not yet led to any measurable decline in mortality due to melanoma. The current method of screening seems to be less thorough than that used in the pilot project; this may explain the absence of a decline in malignant melanoma-related mortality in Germany overall up to the year 2013, as well as the rising mortality in Schleswig-Holstein since the end of the pilot program. The generation of a robust set of data on how skin cancer screening can be optimised now seems urgently necessary." There are several difficulties. First of all, with regard to melanoma, it can remain hidden for a long time. Sometimes, at the skin level, there is only one small spot and yet there are already metastases. The problem is that we don't have enough screening methods. On the other hand, when people have already detected a melanoma, have been treated, operated, they are followed by a doctor and receive a small card with all the data on it. We will work in an inter-ministerial conference with the federated entities to see who wants to do what and who can do what. But it's not that simple, as you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u13	Minister, thank you for your answers. I will read your document and in particular the translation of the German newspaper with interest. I understand that a memorandum of understanding is under way. I imagine that his release is for the next few weeks and that he will indeed be able to have an impact on this issue. It is discovered that tanning centres are almost no longer controlled in Belgium. This is obviously a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u14	Madam President, Minister, your colleague, Mr Vandeput, has recently presented his Defence Strategic Plan for 2030. By wanting to merge the medical component with the other components, it de facto liquid. It is, however, essential to the smooth conduct of missions abroad, but also for certain missions of assistance to the nation. This announcement could potentially have a serious impact on the future of the Queen Astrid Military Hospital and the Nivelles Military Pharmacy. Minister, what will be the direct consequences of the potential disappearance of the military medical component on the services currently provided to citizens? Have any contacts been made with your colleague the Minister of Defence on this issue? If it turns out that your government does decide to terminate the Royal Military Hospital, are measures already under consideration to ensure the continuity of these important services for civilians, such as the Burning Centre or the hyperbaric oxygen therapy service, that other hospitals are unable to provide?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u15	Madam President, Mr Senesael, as you know, military medical facilities do not fall within the purview of the Minister of Public Health. Therefore, the Hospitals Act does not apply to the Queen Astrid Military Hospital. You interpret the 2030 Defence Strategic Plan as a de facto removal of the Medical Component, but no decision has been made. However, it is true that a number of military medical activities are important not only to the military but also to the citizens. These activities are often based on typically military medical expertise. Some of them are well known, such as the Centre for Great Burns, which is internationally known, while others are less well known, but not less relevant. There are even areas where expertise is focused solely on military medicine, such as phagotherapy. Military medicine is consistent in the provision of urgent medical care in and around Brussels and is responsible for special health transport for people who are extremely contagious, for example persons suspected of being infected with Ebola. These are just a few examples, the list is much longer. I am aware that the contribution of military medicine to the public health of our citizens is a point of attention. Since the beginning of the legislature, my strategic unit has been working regularly with the Minister of Defence. My administration was also involved in these consultations. In addition, there was an exchange of correspondence on this subject with my Defence colleague. My interest in this issue as Minister of Public Health has been repeatedly stressed and has been well supported by Defence Minister Vandeput. The way in which military medicine is currently organized and the care it provides are undoubtedly essential to enable the Medical Component to acquire sufficient knowledge, capabilities and experience to be able to perform its own military tasks in Defence under the best possible conditions. However, the same knowledge, abilities and experiences, which are often specific and exclusive in nature as they do not know how to be part of civil medicine, are also useful and important in the provision of services and care to our citizens. This situation is therefore beneficial for both military medicine and civil medicine. Separation from this military medical activity would have irrefutable repercussions that would result in the loss of expertise, knowledge and experience. Logically, this loss will have to be compensated, which will likely lead to a higher price than achievable savings. For this reason, it would be important to know, first of all, whether any initial savings would be totally lost or even transformed into additional costs. I assure you that I will continue my consultations with the Minister of Defence to ensure that all these points are taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u16	I will make a brief reply, Madam Minister. I love your answer. You start by saying that you are not competent, but in your answer, you say that it is essential that the Centre continue to live. I share your analysis of all the relevant examples you have given us. This medical expertise is essential and you have taken the Great Burning Center as an example. You also mentioned the international reputation of this centre. I feel the relevant and informed look that you are exchanging with your colleague so that the activities of this hospital can continue. In any case, I would also like that to be so. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u17	Madam President, Minister, the Act of 22 December 2009 introduced general regulations, which everyone knows, on the prohibition of smoking in closed places accessible to the public. I think this is working relatively well and we have seen a change in society with regard to this ban. When this law was adopted, electronic cigarettes did not exist and the new system was therefore not provided for, leaving the field open to a lot of interpretation. In 2012, in the context of a parliamentary question, the problem was already mentioned and your predecessor stated that - I quote - "electronic cigarettes are therefore prohibited for consumption in closed public places, and therefore in the Horeca (...)". However, since 2012, although this ban has been confirmed, I have seen on many occasions that some do not consider themselves to be concerned with the ban on smoking in public places. Therefore, Minister, can you reaffirm the total ban on the use of all types of cigarettes, including electronic cigarettes, in public places, and your willingness to enforce this legislation effectively? Do you have any specific measures for electronic cigarettes? What penalties, if any, are available to offenders? Did you, in 2015, within the framework of this legal device verbalized certain people? Are you considering raising awareness among distracted people through a campaign specifically targeting e-cigarettes?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u18	Madam Minister, my question is also about electronic cigarettes. You take a number of measures to regulate their sale. It is then about the real e-cigarette, to be clear, with nicotine-containing vapour, so not about the type already sold on the basis of vapour without nicotine. According to you, this measure fits into a policy of discouragement, referring to an opinion from the High Health Council that the e-cigarette can help people stop smoking. However, the same High Health Council also points out that the e-cigarette could mean a stepping stone to tobacco consumption for a non-smoking person. In its opinion, the High Health Council also points out that e-cigarettes should be treated in the same way as ordinary cigarettes on the one hand, but on the other hand it considers it necessary to clearly frame the sale within a betrayal policy. That is clearly on page 59 of the opinion. He argues, among other things, that it would be much better to sell the e-cigarettes only in specialised outlets, where the necessary information is provided and where trained staff accompany the customer. However, I do not find that advice in your Royal Decree. Why do you initially refer to the advice of the High Health Council when introducing the e-cigarette, but do you not follow all of its recommendations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u19	Madam President, Minister, with respect to the dangers of e-cigarettes that may attract adolescents to tobacco, this is not the first time that studies have shown the harmfulness of e-cigarettes. You had been questioned on the subject in February 2015 and you had replied that you were waiting for the opinion of the Higher Council of Health. He acknowledged that electronic cigarettes played a role in tobacco control policy. That is why electronic cigarettes will soon be allowed in our home. However, a recent study published by Tobacco Control (a publication of the British Medical Journal) is worrying for the health of young people: nearly 2,400 15-year-olds were followed for one year, between 2013 and 2014. The conclusions are alarming: electronic cigarettes have tripled the number of teenage smokers. Only 5% of non-smokers converted to smoking one year later, while 19% of e-cigarette smokers switched to smoking. While the debate is still under way in our country on the taxation of electronic cigarettes, this study should give us some thought. Minister, is this new study of concern for young people likely to lead you to make new arrangements? Could we, for example, imagine a general disincentive excise system for electronic cigarettes and a lighter tax system for consumers who are accompanied by a professional in order to gradually abandon traditional cigarettes? I wonder about the feasibility of such an approach, but is this track being studied? At the time of the introduction of electronic cigarettes next May, could we consider setting up a kind of monitoring of adolescent panels to monitor their behaviour, so that they can take corrective action in the event of conclusions as alarming as those provided by the study published in Tobacco Control? Are you considering further measures following the publication of this study?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u20	Madam Minister, the Royal Decree allows electronic cigarettes containing nicotine to be sold in the same way as ordinary cigarettes. You say that this measure nevertheless meets a policy of discouragement in which the ultimate objective must be to get rid of addiction. This is also the opinion of the High Health Council that the use of the e-cigarette should fit into a policy of discouragement. The organisation therefore calls for e-cigarettes to be treated in the same way as ordinary cigarettes and for their sale to be explicitly included in a policy of discouragement. The investigation also showed that much more research is needed into the harmfulness of the e-cigarette. It is less toxic than tobacco, but it contains flavourings, colorants and flavors which are not yet sufficiently clear whether or not toxic substances are released when they are burned and which have a negative effect on the human body. There has also been insufficient long-term research into possible harmful substances released by heating up metal from which the e-cigarette is constructed. The High Health Council also advises to work with specialized outlets and with specialized trained staff and only sell from 18 years of age. The KB makes the sale to 16-plussers seem to be possible. This gives young people the impression that e-cigarettes are relatively innocent. In addition, the industry can imagine them as hip and trendy. Most young people will pick that up to fit in. The question also arises as to what happens to the taxation of the e-cigarette as tobacco is also heavily taxed. How do you fit the e-cigarette into a tobacco discouragement policy? What measures will you take? Is it not appropriate to severely restrict the sale of the e-cigarette until a study has been published on the toxic substances released from the combustion of flavourings and flavourings and on the heating of the metal, as recommended by the High Health Council? What are your reasons for not doing that? What is your vision of selling e-cigarettes only through specialised outlets? Are you prepared to equate the e-cigarette with the ordinary cigarette on the basis of the studies that show that higher taxes on tobacco lead to lower consumption and to argue to the Minister of Finance to impose higher taxes on the sale of e-cigarettes?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u21	Madam Secretary, you announced that you will submit an e-cigarette KB by the end of the year. This fits in with a tobacco discouragement policy. You will follow in part the advice of the High Health Council, except for the points of sale. After all, you can see it wider. In the media, you said that the e-cigarette is less harmful than an ordinary cigarette and that it would therefore not be wise to tighten the conditions of sale. That is partly true, but we cannot deny that less harmful is still harmful. That is why we still have a number of questions about other discouragement measures for the e-cigarette. For example, what do we do with 16-year-olds? How do you feel about a smoking ban from the e-cigarette in the hospitality industry? How do you see the place of that e-cigarette in tobacco discouragement policy? What is your vision of the e-cigarette's outlets? Why do you not follow the advice of the Supreme Health Council? How will you discourage the use of the e-cigarette in young people, so that it is not accepted as a hip? Are you planning additional controls for the sale of the electronic cigarette? What are your views on forms of tobacco discouragement that now apply to ordinary cigarettes, such as the ban on smoking e-cigarettes in hotels and restaurants?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u22	Madam Minister, I would like to add one more element to the debate that I have not yet heard. According to groups of people working on it, there are so-called good and bad e-cigarettes, in other words efficient and less efficient. Some indeed help to quit smoking, as the High Health Council also points out. But there are also disposable models of Big Tobacco that are not working and are probably deliberately bought by the tobacco industry. The problem now is that when you implement that directive, it is precisely these ineffective, bad e-cigarettes that are at stake. So there's a trap hidden here. That is why I have a number of questions. The High Health Council gives a place to the e-cigarette in tobacco discouragement policy. Will you also give a place to Big Tobacco's inefficient e-cigarette? If tobacco and the e-cigarette are regulated by the same directives, will you apply the same rules for their use? In other words, will the e-cigarette only be allowed to be smoked outside? Will you also ban the e-cigarette in the car when there are young children in the car? Will the age limit for buying an e-cigarette remain at 16 years or will you increase it to 18 years? In short, do you agree with me that it is not logical to regulate the e-cigarette less strictly than tobacco?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u23	Madam Minister, I had directed my question to the contradictions or developments present in the studies published fairly regularly on e-cigarettes. For some studies, they help with weaning, for others, they may attract new consumers to smoking after passing through electronic cigarettes. At the same time, cigar manufacturers are increasingly at the forefront of the production and marketing of some of these electronic cigarettes. The Higher Council of Health is asking for further studies that address the concerns I have just mentioned. It would be important to sponsor these studies before making arrangements. Among other things, it asks for a study on the effect of nicotine from consumption via electronic cigarettes. Nicotine is one of the fastest substances to create addiction and addiction among young people, especially young girls. A few months is enough to be completely dependent. Such a study could help to determine whether or not you are creating insurance via e-cigarettes, or whether you are helping people quit smoking and, if so, under what conditions. The Commission also calls for studies to be carried out on cigar manufacturers, multinationals, financial resources, lobbies, etc., which are responsible for the production, marketing and promotion of these e-cigarettes, in order to verify their links. It is known how many links have existed in the past between this community and the scientific bodies that study and advise. These are two important approaches. I would like to supplement Mrs Dedry's speech on the European directive and the type of electronic cigarettes she will allow for marketing. We are told that the description of the characteristics of an e-cigarette according to the directive does not correspond to the electronic cigarettes present on the market today and not produced by cigar manufacturers. We will find ourselves in a situation where only electronic cigarettes produced by cigar manufacturers can be marketed if the standards of the European Directive are met. I've had the opportunity to see some of these electronic cigarettes. They are cigarettes; they look like Dunhills, they are elegant, black and thin with reserves placed in a case that opens like a lighter. It's clearly a copy of cigarettes. We're no longer in the vapoteur that I find a little unsightly, which made steam and is really out of the field of cigarettes. To me, it's obviously a matter of concern. I would have liked to know if you were planning to meet these concerns for further studies. What is your assessment on the subject? What will be the timing of the arrangements you are announcing that you want to make and that my colleagues have mentioned?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u24	Thank you, sir. Scourneau, Ms. Jiroflée, Ms. Gerkens, Ms. Caprasse, Ms. Van Hoof, Ms. Hufkens and Ms. Dedry for your questions. These are a number of questions about the e-cigarette. I once heard about asking the questions about the chocolate cigarettes. There were just as many of them. I remember that. Yes, yes. And cigars too. The committee is evolving, so that is a good thing. The use of any type of e-cigarette is considered to be smoking by the Act of 22 December 2009 establishing general regulations on the prohibition of smoking in closed places accessible to the public and on the protection of workers from tobacco smoke. As a result, it is not permitted to use an electronic cigarette in public places. The same is true in the workplace. Several people have asked whether smoking will be allowed in public space. By the way, I once banned an eminent MP from sticking an empty pipe in his mouth, so to speak, also because he was recovering from tobacco. As chairmen, we both said the same thing: no pipe in the Public Health Committee! There was even an article in the press! The tobacco and alcohol inspection service will ensure that this is done as part of its controls on the prohibition of smoking in public places. They also carried out checks last year. I have been told that 17 infringements of the use of electronic cigarettes in public places were detected in the course of 2015. The legislator has provided for fines of a minimum amount of 156 euros and a maximum of 6,000 euros. The administrative fine imposed by the Public Health FPS generally corresponds to the lowest fine, i.e. EUR 156. If aggravating circumstances are identified such as recidivism or aggression, then the amount of the fine is obviously higher. It is rather rare to find such offences. As I told you, in 2015, the inspection department found only 17 violations and found only one PV. I have spoken on several occasions in this committee about the importance of transposing the tobacco directive, part of which deals with the e-cigarette. The royal decree concerning the e-cigarette will be published in the Belgian Official Journal in the coming days and will enter into force ten days later. The rest of the transposition of the European directive follows, as you know. As you point out, the report of the High Health Council does indeed call for the electronic cigarette not to be stricter than for tobacco products. That is what we are doing, as the ban on sales to 16-year-olds, the ban on advertising and use in public closed places will also apply to e-cigarettes. As far as sales in specialist outlets are concerned, I do not agree with the advice of the Supreme Health Council, because it would be a entanglement for the sale of e-cigarettes. I quote the Supreme Health Council: "This is a less harmful product. In terms of accessibility, therefore, we would set a high threshold for the most harmful product and lower the threshold for the product that is said to help to recover. It is true that a lot of studies on the e-cigarette are emerging. From a scientific point of view, one has been carried out more seriously than the other. For example, the study to which you referred, Mrs Van Hoof, was taken in Hawaii. That is why we have asked the High Health Council to put all these studies together and to come up with a good and serious advice so that we can separate the chaff from the chaff from the chaff and distinguish between crazy studies, on matters and circumstances that are not related to the circumstances in our country, and scientifically based studies, and we can only base ourselves on the latter. We have therefore also imposed various restrictive measures in order to certainly not encourage non-smokers to consume the e-cigarette. We have therefore taken into account that the High Health Council also says that a new kind of attractive product can be marketed. Mrs Gerkens, people will certainly try to make that look beautiful, although it escapes me why a cigarette is perceived as sexy when it gives you a smelly breath, lots of diseases and brown fingers. However, some people have a different idea about it. Tastes and colors don't argue. Finally, I would like to point out that the directive, and therefore the RB, provides for a number of quality standards, but also requirements, to which these products must comply. So we are talking about flavours and fragrances and everything that could lead to side effects or make it a more attractive product. A framework is provided to assess the quality of a product intended purely as withdrawal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u25	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u26	Controls will continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u27	It's a crime, it's really not much. I could've found more.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u28	Mr. Scourneau, if you have to change your profession, you should know that we still need controllers. But you know it's a difficult profession.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u29	As we say in our jargon, I take note of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u30	They are often attacked.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u31	Madam Minister, you're offering me a "smoky" blow!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u32	Madam Secretary, we obviously agree on what is sexy or not. I don't understand that either. We're all on the same page there. You say that you have tried to create a framework in which one can use the e-cigarette as a rehab device or a means to make it easier to rehab. I really don't have that impression. It may as well mean a very low-threshold step towards the use of tobacco. In addition, we believe that we should also be stricter for ordinary cigarettes. I continue to believe that this is not the right way to help young people get away from cigarettes.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u33	Minister, of course I agree with everything you have said, but I feel a little upset about my question about the use of cigarettes by teenagers. I do not feel that I have a concrete answer to my question. As for the possibility of monitoring, it would be appropriate to make one specifically available to adolescents.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u34	I didn't understand what level. At the administrative level? How should this be organised? A monitoring committee about being able to smoke at home or on the streets? We already have a lot of difficulty organizing checks in public places. I don't know how we could do it. Maybe it's your wording, but I didn't understand how you wanted to organize it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u35	You didn't understand my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u36	It's so vague that we can't give you an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u37	My question is about youth and teenagers. It is through them that we must start doing something because when we see, just when we leave school, the number of smokers! It's really an interpellation about teenagers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u38	You may wish to clarify, in a later question, what you expect of the federal Minister of Health in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u39	Madam Minister, I have not received an answer to the question whether you will do anything about taxation and contact with Minister Van Overtveld. Then there is the issue of the aspect sexy, hip and trendy. I've noticed in the Diestsestraat in Leuven that there's been a very trendy and trendy store that only sells e-cigarettes, near a school. The question arises as to whether this does not attract young people. Actually, I'm afraid so. This is a new product used by only 2% of the population. It is not intended to give it a stepping stone through a new market that is being exploited. It wouldn't have been wrong to arrange the sale through the pharmacists. Until today, it was sold through the pharmacists. It could have been retained there as part of the policy of discouragement. Personally, I am in favour of that. I note in your reply that you are open to studies that are objective and scientifically sound. So this matter has not yet been closed for you, and you can be convinced by studies. I understand from your answer that you are not shutting this down, but that you would like to be supported in your policy by objective scientific data. We will continue to insist on this with you. However, I would like to continue thinking about the aspect of making such products easily accessible to young people, which is not a good thing. I refer again to the example in Leuven.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u40	Madam Minister, I would just like to come back to the aspect raised by Mr Gerkens and to which I have not heard an answer. It is about the fact that apparently there are now two types of e-cigarettes on the market. One of them is indeed promoted by the tobacco lobby. That would be the only model that would be allowed if we transposed that directive. That's what worries me. For me, that was new information. I don't know if you're aware of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u41	Madam Secretary, you may be surprised, but I understand your reasoning. You say that the e-cigarette is currently regarded as a less harmful product, although studies contradict each other. Therefore, it cannot be dealt with in sales outlets in any other way than ordinary cigarettes. We would then have to open up the whole debate and also involve the ordinary cigarette and its outlets. That would be an honest discussion. I am pleased that you have created a framework and reassured us: all the current bans on smoking ordinary cigarettes apply also to electronic cigarettes. I think it's important that people know that, too. I miss the prevention section in this discussion, although I am well aware that it is not your responsibility. We must protect young people from making the e-cigarette more attractive to them. We were asked whether you have any contact with Minister Van Overtveldt with regard to taxes. However, I also wonder whether you have been in contact with your colleague, Mr Vandeurzen. Smoking prevention, and this will also be the case for the e-cigarette, will play a very important role in this. As long as prevention is not adequately used, mopping with the tap is open. Mrs Dedry mentioned a number of possible new measures, which have not yet been voted on, such as a ban on smoking in the car and an increase in age. I think those are very interesting ideas that need to be discussed. Maybe it's not bad to involve the e-cigarette in the discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u42	As for me, Madam Minister, I would like to stress one point. You will ask to compare the different studies that exist. I really insist that we study the question of whether there is, yes or no, creation of insurance, as nicotine can cause, among new consumers, including young people, who are clearly part of the current target audience. And if there's an assumption, you need to know how it's created. You say that you want e-cigarettes to be used as part of weaning, not to attract new consumers. The problem is that once you sell electronic cigarettes wherever you sell tobacco, you cannot make sure that they will be sold as part of smoking cessation, as opposed to a pharmacy sale. It is therefore important to carry out these studies and to consider that there are not only substances contained in electronic cigarettes that make them attractive, but also their shape and packaging. I therefore draw your attention to the appearance of these electronic cigarettes by cigar makers, knowing that they have no objective of promoting smoking cessation. They are aimed only at attracting new consumers, because cigarette smoking is doing pretty badly in our countries. You're announcing the release of a royal decree in the next few days. Can we wait for him around March? [[Sentiment]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u43	Madam President, Madam Minister, human experimentation is a little discussed subject, but healthy citizens are renting their bodies to the pharmaceutical industry and hospitals to test drugs. They thus voluntarily expose themselves to molecules that measure their effects. I do not question the usefulness of these tests, but I am concerned about the modalities of the risk of drift. The recent drug trial that has turned into a drama in France seems to me to deserve an update on the situation in Belgium. We would indeed be the European champions in this field with some 170,000 patients taking part each year in such tests. In this regard, I thank you, Minister, for your answer to my written question, which makes it possible to distinguish healthy volunteers who receive compensation and other patients who receive treatment free of charge. I regret, however, that the exact figures in the study protocols are not available in your databases. You also do not have access to the amounts of the allowances or to the number of tests per centre. It is therefore difficult to properly understand the situation in our country. I regret this because, according to the evidence I have gathered, we seem to be lagging behind in terms of the provisions guaranteeing good practice. It took three years to transpose into Belgian law the European Directive of 4 April 2001 on the approximation of the provisions of the Member States relating to the application of good practice in the conduct of clinical trials of medicinal products for human use. The Human Experiments Act of 7 May 2004 finally created a legal framework. Article 32(2) of the Act requires the creation in a data bank of a register of healthy volunteers who are suitable for experiments on the human person. Before any start of experimentation, the investigator is required to consult this file. However, it would seem that such a file has never been created. I put this to the test because it is one of the questions I want to ask you. In the United States, volunteers make a living. A researcher at the University of California found that all the professional guinea pigs she studied violated the rest period required between two experiments. This is the period necessary for the body to completely eliminate the tested molecule. The researcher explains this drift by the absence of a database containing the identity of the volunteer, the molecule tested, the duration of the trial and the rest period. It seems that the situation is the same for us. At the beginning of 2015, a Belgian newspaper investigated the subject and concluded that nothing would prevent a volunteer from chaining experiments, which could not only endanger his life but also distort the results of clinical studies. According to this daily newspaper, the compensation could be €3,000 for first-in-man tests which, according to your written answer, can involve 1 to 80 volunteers per trial. In our case, there would be no mandatory declaration or ceiling, unlike France, which limits the activity to 4,500 euros per year. Minister, this information leads me to ask you the following questions: Is it possible for us to make a living by conducting experiments? Is it true that the national data bank imposed by law has never been established? It appears that the two Francophone first-in-man experimentation centres voluntarily register their guinea pigs on an international platform. What about the 6 centres in Flanders? Are you aware of the study conducted by American researcher Jill Fisher? If so, will this study lead you to take other specific measures? Have there ever been any incidents in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u44	Mrs Caprasse, first of all, I would like to express my sympathy to the family of the deceased and to the other victims of this phase 1 clinical trial in France. At the moment, we do not have any information to understand the causes of this unfortunate accident. I think there is still work to be done to determine the circumstances that led to this situation. But to answer your questions, in Belgium, it is not possible to earn a living by taking part in clinical trials. Compensation, verified and approved by the ethics committee, is compensation for the discomfort suffered. The amount collected is obviously not linked to the potential risks. The number of clinical trials in which a volunteer may participate is limited on the basis of the clinical trial protocol and a minimum of several months is foreseen before a volunteer can participate in another study. The approval of clinical studies by the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products and the Ethics Committee will only be granted after a thorough assessment of the risks to volunteers. These are selected on very strict bases. Before being eligible for a given study, they are subject to thorough medical examination and testing. They are also closely monitored for the duration of the test, their safety being the first priority. In the event of a significant or non-explicable adverse reaction, one of the first steps will be to discontinue the study in the subject concerned. In a clinical trial, the volunteer is generally even more supervised than a patient in a hospital department. Units conducting clinical trials with initial human exposure are regularly inspected by Belgian and international authorities to ensure that they meet Good Clinical Practice standards and in some cases also Good Manufacturing Practice standards. In addition, the centres are regularly inspected by the study sponsors and the managers of their Quality Assurance service. Finally, the programme law of 26 December 2015 provides for the possibility of accreditation of the centres. A royal decree will have to be issued in order to specify the exact conditions under which such accreditation may be granted. At the moment, it is voluntary, but in the future compulsory accreditation could be envisaged. This will require an update of the relevant legislation. It is true that the national database of volunteers has not yet been created. However, the Phase 1 research centres register their volunteers in a European database, which enables them to verify their participation in studies not only in Belgium but also in the European countries which contribute to this database. The last major incident in Europe was in 2006 and took place in the United Kingdom. In Belgium, fortunately, so far there have been no incidents of this importance. Although these tests are carried out by taking as many precautions as possible, in accordance with international and national regulations in a secure environment with specially assigned, well-trained and vigilant personnel, the zero risk unfortunately does not exist. These centres are never immune to an incident. However, clinical trials, and in particular Phase I trials, remain essential for the development and characterization of new drugs that are essential to meet the medical needs that remain unmet at this time. Vigilance and safety for volunteers go first and foremost. Important work has already been done not only at European level but also in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u45	I am pleased with the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u46	Minister, for a long time now, we have been thinking about how to reduce hospitalization time. Of course, this reduction must have some exceptions, but it is one of the priorities of different countries, including ours. We also know that such a policy must be considered from a variety of perspectives, including home care. It is about providing quality care and protecting the patient. The problem is that, given this public health priority, many companies, in particular the market for medical equipment to monitor and even treat patients at home, have understood that this was a major opportunity. Thus, remote monitoring of temperature, blood pressure or heart pulses is beginning to develop, especially for chronic patients such as diabetics, pulmonary insufficiency, etc. Besides, various medical equipment is currently being used in hospitals and is increasingly being made available to the patient. We saw it through an advert for an outpatient home polysomnography system. As a result, this sector is expanding. Therefore, questions arise in terms of ethics, safety and quality for patients, who find themselves alone in the face of this booming market. Companies contact them directly to offer a general offer and install devices such as oxyconcentrators, kidney dialysis machines, pain pumps, etc. I have the impression, and I am not the only one, that if we do not protect patients, we could venture towards a dangerous policy that would be to their detriment. So I come to my questions. As part of the development of home care, can you tell us whether you intend to impose specific rules, in particular in terms of quality, safety and traceability for medical devices and equipment? What are you planning as rules for providers who would intervene at the patient's home? What are your plans for the maintenance and repair of medical equipment? We reviewed the findings of the KCE study on home hospitalization. But can you tell me if any studies have been carried out on the development of these medical devices and equipment, in order to have an overview of this market and thus establish rules for the protection of patients?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u47	Dear colleague, I can confirm to you that we are aware of the problem and that a consultation on this issue with the first patients concerned and the sector active in this technology has been under way for some time. The goal is to better frame home care. Discussions focused on the various aspects of home care, including: - the rules governing the distribution of these products and their possible reimbursement; - the tasks, responsibilities, training and recognition of the various actors involved in home care; - hospitals, doctors, nurses, pharmacists, as well as firms providing medical and technical services; - the installation, maintenance, repair and traceability of these medical devices; - the possible delivery of associated medicines. Indeed, the medical device is one thing, but we must not neglect the potential medications associated with it that can be nebulized, injected; - mobile applications related to health and telemonitoring, already mentioned in the e-health plan. Yesterday we had a meeting about the "mobile health" component. Concertations are under way on medical devices to determine how to deal with this problem. These consultations enable us to integrate these various aspects in the implementation of my policy on home hospitalisation, but also in the implementation of the policy on e-health and the policy on the supervision of medical devices. This is a great job because every week there are new opportunities to do things at home, which was not possible before. It's interesting for patients who want to avoid going to consultation and being hospitalized at all costs. In the meantime, care must be taken to ensure that patients are not at risk.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u48	Minister, we share the same concern. Remember, however, that this applies not only to patients who do not want to be hospitalized, but also to many patients who have difficulty moving and who want to continue to have a family life as part of a chronic heavy illness. They need this device. They are all the more at the disposal of the market for medical devices. That there is consultation is a good thing. Is there a deadline? I don't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u49	It started a few months ago. Again this morning, there was a meeting with the entire medical device industry. As we have done with the pharmaceutical industry, we are currently negotiating with this sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u50	Do you know whether in other neighbouring countries, such as the Netherlands, France or Germany, there are already special arrangements?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u51	Not to my knowledge. However, they told me they were close to concluding; I will be informed of the follow-up to the recent meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u52	This is a subject on which we will come back in the coming weeks or months.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u53	Madam President, Madam Minister, in your press release of 11 January, some time ago, we received more details on the distribution of the EUR 10 million envelope released this year for the paramedical professions. I would also like to take this opportunity to express my appreciation for the doctors and health insurance funds who have reached agreement in difficult budgetary circumstances. Madam Minister, I would have liked more details on the EUR 10 million envelope for paramedics. Firstly, can you give an overview of the amounts available to the groups and for which these amounts will be used? Secondly, can you also indicate whether all the requirements have been met, whether certain requirements cannot be met or whether certain groups are not eligible? Do you have a more detailed overview of this? Thirdly, as regards the midwife, can you tell us what fees are going to rise? Could you also explain why a practical grant or social status was not chosen?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u54	Madam President, Minister, my question also deals with the paramedics, but has a different content. In the field there are questions about the fact that for most paramedical professions there is a professional bachelor's programme with an academic superstructure. For example, to exercise the profession of kine, it is necessary to obtain the master's degree, whereas this remains an option for nurses with a bachelor's programme and logopedists. The professional bachelor's programme already gives access to the profession in these last examples, so it is not necessary to put the master's programme above that. The federal approach is that in practice no distinction is made in rewarding bachelor or master-educated paramedics. The question is therefore why this distinction is not made and whether there is something on the shelf to revise it. After all, people on the ground find it illogical that someone who studies for three years receives the same salary or fee as someone who, for example, spends five years studying.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u55	Madam President, Mrs Jiroflée, Mrs Van Camp, I can give you an overview of the accepted measures in the framework of the envelope paramedical professions. As far as dental services are concerned, it is a question of introducing a telematics premium for dentists, for which the criteria still have to be determined, obviously in consultation with the policy cell. This would have a financial impact of EUR 2 million per year. For kinesi therapy there is a financial incentive for kinesi therapists who meet the conditions under the quality promotion. In 2016, this should reflect on the integration of the current system into a generic framework of accreditation. We are talking about EUR 1 200 000. For the midwife there are also measures to be worked out by the corresponding committee. This is EUR 1 418 000, which will be used for a sensitive improvement in the post-natal care fee after the fifth day post partum in order to provide for mother and child in the event of a faster return home after childbirth. It is 22.5 % storage. As far as nurses are concerned, there will be the introduction of a social status for voluntary self-employed home nurses. We are talking about EUR 2.5 million. Strict criteria for the award of the social status will have to be developed, taking into account the resources available. The introduction of a maximum in addition to a minimum threshold is necessary. For the logopedists there is the introduction of a social status for the conflicted logopedists. You know that this is once again on the negotiating table. This amounts to EUR 2.6 million. It is a question of introducing a social status to facilitate the conclusion of an agreement, in order to ensure that patients are also subject to tariff security in the case of a logopedist. For the speech therapy there is also the introduction of the term locked-in syndrome. People who suffer from this, usually due to a stroke or stroke, cannot communicate at all because they cannot talk, not write, not move. They don't really have any contact. It's called locked-in syndrome. Through the lopopedic method one could teach these people some basic communication. It is EUR 240 000, intended for a relatively small group, but it is a group with enormous problems. There were indeed many questions from all sectors, including an increase in fees to 50%. It seems obvious to me that we cannot all deal with this in the current budgetary circumstances. However, a special effort has been made for the paramedical professions and a budget of EUR 10 million has been made available. I had asked the insurance committee to make proposals for the use of that envelope. The Committee has drawn up a constructive proposal in the long term. As I have asked, account was taken of the policy priorities and the priorities put forward by the insurance committee. I accepted the proposed measures, subject to a few comments as mentioned earlier. Women who have recently given birth are increasingly calling for good postnatal support from midwife. The competences and possibilities of the midwife are also becoming more well known, including through testimonies in the media. The reduction in the average length of stay in a hospital in the event of normal childbirth will also mean that more postnatal care will have to be provided in an outpatient manner. The midwife has a prominent role to play in this, which must also be evaluated financially. The Midwife Agreement Committee sets annual priorities for the Insurance Committee. On this basis, it was proposed to improve the fees and allowances of postnatal care after the fifth day postpartum. That proposal was only endorsed by the insurance committee of the RIZIV on 20 February. As mentioned earlier, the choice was made on the basis of the priorities formulated by the Midwife Agreement Committee. It did not mention a practical grant and a social status as priorities. The distribution of the envelope took maximum account of the needs on the ground. Mrs Van Camp, your second question seems to me to have ended up here by mistake. I don't know if you feel the same way. After all, she is of a very different order. I assume that this item is indeed sensitive and it needs to be looked at in its context. We are also faced with the change in the training of nurses, from three to four years. As far as the logopedists are concerned, I think that will be taken into account. I'll have this checked with regard to the law, or the former Royal Decree No. 78, on the remuneration of the health professions. It lists all health professions and this point can be taken into account. It is about three years or five years, as well as about the level. If one follows a three-year professional bachelor, one cannot simply pass on to a master, but has to follow a year of transition because there is a slightly different curriculum attached to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u56	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer you gave to my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u57	Madam Secretary, if I understand correctly, all of this comes up when we have C.B. No. 78. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u58	Madam Minister, it is also an older question. During the Christmas holidays we were able to learn about the Medicomut agreement. In view of the tight budgetary framework, an agreement was reached, somewhat contrary to expectations. The agreement contains fine principles and good intentions. Section 4.3 states that by 30 June 2016, the National Commission on Medicine-Sickness Funds will present proposals for the introduction of a ban on clinical biology, pathological anatomy and genetics supplements. In this context, you spoke in a media response about reducing supplements. Madam Minister, I would have liked to hear from you whether you support the intention to ban the specific supplements and whether you believe that the agreement still leaves room for restriction but not prohibition of these supplements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u59	Mrs. Jiroflée, the Christmas tree wasn't a Christmas tree for everyone. As you point out, point 4.3.1 of the Medical and Medical Funds Agreement of 22 December provides that the National Commission on Medical and Medical Funds will, by 30 June 2016, present a proposal for the introduction of a ban on the supplements of clinical biology, pathological anatomy and genetics, as provided for in Article 73 § 1 of the Law on Medical and Medical Benefits in kind (GLU Act). Article 73 (1) of the Law on compulsory medical care insurance and benefits coordinated on 14 July 1994 provides, subject to Article 152 (5) of the Law on hospitals and other care establishments coordinated on 10 July 2008, that the King may determine the conditions under which health care providers may charge supplements for clinical biology benefits, pathological anatomical examinations and genetic examinations. The King determines the conditions on the basis of a proposal from the National Committee on Medical Men's Funds. For the purposes of this paragraph, supplements shall mean the difference between the fees and the rates if the agreement referred to in Article 50 is in force or the difference between the fees and the rates which serve as the basis for the calculation of the insurance meeting if no such agreement is in force. As part of the 2016-2017 agreement, the Medicomut has therefore clearly committed itself to drawing up a proposal for a prohibition on supplements for the provision of clinical biology, pathological, anatomical and genetic studies by 30 June 2016. Indeed, I have expressly approved this agreement and I therefore also support the commitment expressed. As soon as I receive the proposal from the Medicomut, the necessary steps will be taken. Why did I talk about reducing it? Because it's not about all the supplements. These are only three types of supplements that we can intervene on right now. You know that other supplements are also being asked for. It is difficult to say that all supplements will be abolished by this measure. We will have to go further and further, but this is the first time it has been so explicitly agreed and there was consensus around the table. I have already said during the negotiations on the repayment of the warm breast that we are not only talking about the reimbursement of this, but also about the supplements requested. Of course, that makes it much harder. The past has shown that if we do not have an agreement on these supplements, then it is useless to pay back more. If you pay more back, the supplements will also go up, as they are part of the refund. I am waiting impatiently for the proposal, but I think they will continue to work on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u60	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I note that it is indeed a ban on the supplements of clinical biology, pathology, anatomy and genetics.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u61	Madam President, Madam Secretary, Professor Neyns and his team at UZ Brussels have made an analysis of immune therapies. They analysed more than one hundred patients with advanced to advanced melanoma. The results of that analysis show that such successes have never been achieved before with other treatments. In a patient out of three, the cancer was convincingly reduced and life expectancy also appears to increase significantly with immune therapy. That immune therapy seems to be the best way to deal with melanoma cancer. For the time being, the price of such immunotherapy is approximately EUR 130 000 per year. The UZ Brussels, in particular Professor Neyns, calls for patients to be given optimal access to the immune therapies as soon as possible. He believes that these therapies should be the first choice treatments. Madam Secretary, I would have liked to know what you are doing and whether you are thinking about taking steps in that direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u62	Madam President, Professor Neyns could have asked me that too, because I see him regularly. You can tell him with great joy that the immunotherapy Nivolumab will be refunded from 1 April on the indication of advanced melanoma. That has indeed had to find its way through the competent committees.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u63	Madam Minister, in the Netherlands it is being examined whether the age limit for fertility treatment in women can be raised to 50 years. Women can freeze their eggs to have them implanted at a later age, the so-called age banking. More and more women are reporting to us to become pregnant through this procedure at an age when their own fertility may already have fallen sharply. The fact that the debate has also flared up in Belgium clearly demonstrates the media's attention. I think we can ask some ethical questions about the age of fertility. Actress Hilde Van Mieghem stated in De Morgen that this freezing would go far too far. Do we want to have children with old parents? Are there any additional health risks? Are there any emotional risk derivatives for the children? Is the risk of a generational conflict much greater? Or are there only benefits like more time available at a later age and more capital than at the beginning of the career? I just wanted to hear your point of view, Madam Secretary. I know that you think of such things in a very nuanced way. I would have liked to have heard your point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u64	Madam Minister, I have given my question the title of "evidence based to become pregnant." You will immediately understand what I mean by that. Everyone of us remembers the slogan from the seventies: "A smart girl gets her child in time." As my colleague Mr Jiroflée has said, there are risks associated with an older age. Women, on the one hand, underestimate the age factor in the reduction of fertility and, on the other hand, often overestimate the chances of successful pregnancy through medical care. In addition, this has been detailed and nuanced in a number of articles in the press. The risk derivatives are not only of a physical or medical nature but also psychosocial from 35 years of age. I'll throw it over another bow. Raising the age for freezing and implanting eggs is one discussion. Another debate has a more social, ethical dimension: how far should we go in high-tech medical progress and how far do we touch those limits of medical progress? So I am not going to limit myself to a question about raising the age to 50, but what measures can you, as Minister of Social Affairs, take to make women and men aware of a healthy age to become pregnant? That is another task. Do you agree, first and foremost, with my analysis? For example, is evidence based getting pregnant not a useful research assignment for the KCE? Their recommendations in this area could lead to pertinent health objectives. What measures can and will you take, of course in cooperation with Minister Peeters, to make work more workable, so that women can perfectly coincide their careers with the period in which they are fertile and therefore should not be an excuse to freeze eggs? Finally, what awareness-raising actions do you consider possible within your competence in relation to the rat race in society that brings us to this scan of the medical boundaries?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u65	Madam Secretary, we are getting different debates mixed up here. Women who find pregnancy and work uncombinable sometimes opt for freezing. Perhaps we should intervene in this earlier and we should amend our directives. If we are to give good advice, I can advise every woman to have twins and still work, because that is a very difficult combination. However, that is another discussion. I return to the essence of the debate initiated by initiatives in the Netherlands to raise the limit of fertility treatment, especially with donor egg cells or frozen cells. Then we are back in the debate as to whether we should always go along with something that is medically possible. When should one define? There are several reasons why we need to think about the age, which is already higher than in the Netherlands, namely 47 years old. Firstly, there are health risks which are certainly and above all important. Secondly, there is the chance of success, in which the discussion arises about repayment and that opportunity. Thirdly, there is the debate on the moment when something can be stimulated, and we must not forget that the child that comes from it must be put first. What is the limit for us on which there are social or psychological consequences for the child that comes out of it? It's not an easy discussion. Madam Minister, I would have liked to have heard your views on this matter. Are you considering reviewing the age limit?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u66	Mrs Jiroflée, Mrs Van Peel, Mrs Dedry, it is indeed correct that technological developments in the freezing of ova open a debate on the age limit for placing back. At the moment, this limit in our law on medically assisted reproduction is indeed 47 years old. Given the scarcity of donor egg cells, it is not appropriate to give priority to women who wish to become mothers after the age of 47 years. We are therefore only talking about the age limit for removals after freezing eggs, in order to avoid age-related infertility. That has already been called age banking. The eggs are placed on a bench, although very cold, and can then possibly be placed back. It's like ice banking. Two questions indeed need to be answered. Is there a medical contra-indication to allow medically assisted reproduction treatments to take place after the age of 47 years? What is the ethical framework? For the strictly medical side of the matter, the risk of premature birth, death and many complications, such as gestational diabetes, is of course much higher for an average 45-year-old pregnant woman and future mother than for a 25- or 30-year-old woman. However, it seems that the risk does not increase substantially anymore. Between the age of 45 and the menopausal age, this risk remains the same and there is no increase. That's the medical hatch. In addition, there is the ethical issue which you yourself outline in your question: is it desirable that women should still be mothers after the age of 47? In order to assess this issue, account should be taken, inter alia, of the psychosocial impact on children of having parents at an age. Research in the United States would show that there are both benefits and disadvantages for the child. In any case, this is a recent phenomenon and we must continue to monitor the state of research in order to assess long-term effects. In our country, raising the age limit until recently was not a topical issue. It is illustrative that in December 2013 the Advisory Committee on Bioethics issued an opinion on the ethical aspects of the freezing of ova to prevent age-related infertility, but that any increase in the age limit was not even addressed or discussed. I will therefore ask the Advisory Committee on Bioethics to update their advice and to include the issue of age limits. On the basis of that opinion, a well-informed debate can then be held. Mrs. Dedry, it is indeed a point of interest. There is always a search for ways of bringing work and family life closer together. I also think that we should choose to balance the work-life balance, or work on workable work, as my colleague calls it, rather than ask people to postpone their children's desire for a decade or two for organisational reasons. I do not argue that a woman at a younger age is physically more resistant to the effects of pregnancy. There's enough scientific evidence for that. However, some things are not planned either. For example, it is preferable to find a suitable partner to start a family.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u67	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u68	Maybe with a trial period?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u69	In some cases, a trial period would indeed be better, at least to achieve fertilization. We must continue to make a clear distinction. There are individual situations for which one can always understand. There must also be sufficient information for those concerned to be able to assess the risk. After all, the chance of successful fertilization and a well-behaved pregnancy is much less. We need to know that in advance. You asked the question of the father's age, which is the most appropriate one for fatherhood. I must remain guilty of this, because I think there is still a lot of research to be done. There is, however, recent information on this. In the past, it has always been said that the age of the father is not as important as the age of the mother. This is now contradicted: it is seen that the number of mutations occurring in sperm of men of a certain age is much greater than the number of mutations in sperm of young men. So age does have an influence. However, further evidence has to be provided. Since abnormalities are found, it is of course important to consider the quality of sperm as well, as this may have an impact on the fruit. The debate is therefore not over. So I will have the opinion extended to the bioethical committee. Since it wasn't an issue, we'll raise the age. The debate on this subject will therefore continue. I repeat that we must also look at why the choice is made. When it comes to career reasons, it is something else than when it comes to medical reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u70	Madam Minister, let me be very clear: I understand that it happens in some cases. We should not therefore point the finger at that. What I do have a problem with is that there is some sort of advertising by an actress, who is a bit of a public figure and has an exemplary role for many people. To be honest, that hits my chest. I think we agree on the ethical aspect. I also fully agree with your conviction and with Mrs van Peel that, when it comes to having children and a career, we need to look much more at society and how we organise them than to think that the limits of medicine can be pushed forward indefinitely.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u71	Madam Secretary, I follow your caution not to follow any medical progress without any nuance. I think it is a good idea to work through an opinion from the Belgian Advisory Committee on Bioethics. Indeed, we must not create needs that are not yet there. The age limit is already relatively high in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u72	Madam Minister, I agree with the two previous speakers. It's a good idea to get that advice. We shall then take note of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u73	Question No 8802 by Mrs Lanjri is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u74	Madam President, Minister, last year a central tracing register for implants, implantation of implants and modifications was tested in the form of a pilot project. I had understood that this would be rolled out from 2016. I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. Exactly what resources were part of the pilot project and how many hospitals participated in it? How is the pilot project evaluated? Has the pilot project been scaled up to the hospitals by now? That's what I was supposed to do. If not, when would it be rolled out, including to the private institutions? Each hospital should also designate a responsible person. How's that going? Is that in place yet? Steps were also taken to improve materiovigilance and, in particular, to set up hotlines. Is the hotlines system now operational? How do you evaluate it? I asked you last time whether it is true that medical equipment is only checked for the production process, but not at all for the operation and safety in the body. I stayed a little hungry last time. Is that right? In the context of improving the tracing of implants, are there any plans to tighten that up and thus better protect the patient?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u75	Madam President, Minister, I do not think that the European medical implant inspection procedures are sufficiently strict or credible. We all remember the Dutch reportage in which a mandarin from the supermarket got a label of medical implant. In Europe medical devices are also covered by the Department of Economics, although many implants are of course used for medical interventions. At the moment, many doctors are not aware, or under-educated, of all the complications of a number of medical implants. Clean, slings and mats made of plastic are increasingly placed in human bodies because it is cheaper and faster than surgery with autogenic tissue, which obviously takes much longer and is more intensive. Patients who were victims of medical complications from implants have now joined forces worldwide. In the United States, there are already examples of massive damages claims that have been granted to the victims. For example, the FDA recognises that pelvic floor mats pose serious health risks, and actions are being taken to investigate the problems and regulate production more strictly. In Belgium, the victims of medical implants are hardly getting any attention, while there are poignant situations here too. I've had people like that with me. Madam Secretary, what exactly is your policy on medical implants? Have you heard about this from the patient association? Is this welcome with you? Do you intend to better inform the doctors about the risks? Do you intend to compensate the victims in Belgium too, should this be necessary, to investigate the problems and to regulate production more strictly?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u76	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, Mrs Dedry, the pilot project dealt with all implantable devices. Six hospitals participated. The pilot project was terminated on 1 August 2015. The conclusions showed that there are no technical barriers to the roll-out of the project to all Belgian hospitals. The adaptation of the project to the new version of the eHealth Roadmap is therefore a focus of attention. The system is open to all hospitals since 1 January of this year, for the time being on a voluntary basis. The Royal Decree governing the implementation of compulsory registration is ready and now follows the legal trail along the necessary advisors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u77	The web application for private practices is ready but is still in a test phase. The generalised roll-out is therefore foreseen later. The contact point for material care is mandatory in each hospital since 2015 and the FAGG ensures that the list of contact points for material care at hospitals is fully up to date. This means that if there is a new implant, this must be taken immediately. The notified distributors should also designate a point of contact for material vigilance and register it in an electronic database of the FAGG. They shall renew the data in this database at least every three years. In 2015, the FAGG has made multiple use of the Materio-Vigilance Contact Points in order to exchange information with hospitals in a coherent and rapid manner. It is the role of the notified body to verify the design, production and final control. The clinical evaluation shall also form part of a technical dossier evaluated by the notified body. The operation of the notified body and in particular the clinical evaluation shall in turn be assessed by means of audits carried out by the designated authorities, the designated authorities, in this case the FAGG, for the notified bodies on Belgian territory, in particular during the joint evaluations carried out by a team composed of members from different countries, the joint assessment audits. Postmarket surveillance and clinical follow-up shall also be monitored by the notified bodies and on the basis of this follow-up, the notified body may decide that the re-evaluation of the cetrificat CE is necessary, with the result, where appropriate, of a suspension of the certificate, which may prevent the device from being traded in the European Economic Area. In addition, manufacturers and professionals are obliged to report all incidents involving medical devices and implants to the FAGG. This Agency shall evaluate the risk to public health of all incidents. On the basis of this evaluation, the FAGG may require manufacturers to take additional actions to improve safety for users. Mrs. Dedry, you say it's not a strict system. However, there is a huge improvement in the system because the material vigilance is being developed on a continuous basis and is also being watched very closely. We will proceed as soon as possible to roll out the pilot project in our hospitals. It can already be done on a voluntary basis, but we will also oblige it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u78	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I am pleased that these pilot projects have been successful and that we can see a profound improvement in the matter of materiovigilance. We agree that there was still a need for improvement. I'm reassured that there's a cover clinical evaluation in there. I didn't get that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u79	Madam Secretary, it's a little clearer to me now. I know that you have a great willingness to listen and also an open cabinet. I can assume that you are also prepared to receive patient associations in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u80	Madam Chair, Minister, I come back to the subject, as things have evolved since my last question. In summary, the Higher Council of Health had, a year ago, given an opinion on the importance of putting iodine pellets to protect the thyroid, at the disposal of populations residing within a radius not 20 km around nuclear power plants, as is the case today, but 100 km. In practice and in view of the distribution of power stations on Belgian territory, this concerns the whole population. Since then, the Federal Agency for Nuclear Control has also issued a report based on its scientific expertise and which in its recommendations also advocates the extension of the distribution area of iodine tablets to the whole territory. Finally, most recently the Centre for Nuclear Studies, which is a centre of reference and expertise, has also validated the position of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. The least we can say is that we really have a complete scientific convergence of the various strands to underline the importance of having a much wider coverage than that which exists today. This is important in terms of emergency planning. The danger to the thyroid can no longer be minimized, either in terms of thyroid cancer or other aspects of dysthyroidism. A year ago, I submitted the same concern to you and the least we can say is that you and your colleague from the interior fired the ball. Today, in view of these complementary converging opinions, I am of course going back to the subject. Minister, you have the various opinions. The Minister of the Interior, whom I also asked in this regard, told me that he would indeed look into the matter. In the meantime, a motion was put to the vote at the plenary last week, but the majority swept it away. This concerns at the bottom 10 million Belgians. The serious nuclear incidents that have occurred before – I am thinking in particular of Fukushima – have unfortunately shown that insufficient precautions are being taken in this area, even though this is vital. So my questions are as follows. Minister, what is your position on this? Despite the majority's rejection of our motion for a recommendation, will the government address this issue? This distribution can be done using different methods, all of which are interesting, either through pharmacists or directly among citizens, but the fundamental element is timing. Indeed, if people take some time to find their iodine tablets in their cabinets or if the grid of the distribution network is too wide than to quickly take or have available an iodine tablet, then you don't win or, in any case, you earn less. Different modalities are interesting but obviously need to be developed quickly and to be completed. Beyond tablets and the availability of tablets, there is a need for accurate and effective communication and a communication strategy programmed by the Crisis Centre in the event of an emergency.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u81	Madam President, Minister, my colleague's introduction was already very extensive. So I don't need to repeat all this. In view of the time frame, I will simply agree with the previous speaker and ask a number of additional informative questions. Madam Secretary, which slopes do you prefer? Do you want to supply the population with targeted supplies or do you prefer to opt for a sufficient stock in pharmacies? Do you think we need additional advice from the Supreme Health Council? How much is the cost? What's the timing? I understand that this has already been started in Germany while we are talking about our Belgian power stations. Have you discussed this with Mr Jambon? Are you going to finish clearing this up?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u82	Madam President, this matter has already been discussed in detail between our cabinet staff. There was also a bilateral meeting last week between Mr Jambon and myself. As part of the update of the federal nuclear emergency plan, one of the priorities is to determine the future strategy for pre-distribution of potassium iodide tablets and reactive distribution in the event of an incident. There are two types of distributions and, as you said, in the second type, it is even less easy than the other type, because for reactive treatment, it is necessary to swallow the tablets at least three hours before exposure to the radioactive risk, otherwise the thyroid has not absorbed enough active ingredients. It is a vital factor that must be taken into account. An international working group of European nuclear experts, the Heads of European Radiological Protection Competent Authorities and the Western European Nuclear Regulators Association, the Higher Council for Health and recently the Scientific Council for Ionizing Radiation of the Federal Agency for Nuclear Control, have all drawn up opinions on the subject. In order to further develop these opinions on thyroid protection, the law firm Security and Interior decided, in joint consultation with my firm, to set up an interdepartmental working group with the government's Crisis Centre on the Interior/Public Health. A detailed analysis of possible avenues is under way, taking into account, inter alia, the logistical aspects that are important. As you say, if we still have to start looking for the platelets on the said day, it will be too late. What is possible and achievable for citizens must also be taken into account. The budgetary implications must also be calculated. Mrs. Dedry, first we need to know how we're going to act to know what the cost will be. In accordance with the advice of the High Health Council, the distribution will give priority to the most vulnerable target groups in the event of a nuclear incident, in particular children, pregnant and breast-feeding women and adolescents. Of course, we will strive to give everyone sufficient defense. In the meantime, this model for reactive distribution in the acute phase of a possible nuclear incident is being discussed with the experts. This study will be launched this year. An implementation exercise will also be foreseen to detect and address bottlenecks proactively. The aim is to implement this updated strategy as soon as possible, in consultation with my colleague in charge of Security and Home Affairs. However, we are aware of the extent of the work to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u83	I am only interested in one thing: I would like to see no further procrastination in order to be able to make concrete progress in this area. Of course, the problem will not be resolved overnight. But among the different possible modalities, it is important that the chosen model be as effective as possible, particularly in terms of compliance. If such a situation is to arise again – let us hope that this is not the case – we also need to think about how to explain it to the citizens. The first of all priorities is to fully guarantee nuclear safety because it is to apply a pad to a wooden leg to try to solve the problem with iodine tablets. In view of the convergence of scientific advice, it is likely that this will have to be done. So I'm counting on you. If the working group could produce results within six months, we could implement the chosen model as effectively as possible. Otherwise, it would mean that we missed a responsible and effective government approach. I am not tabling a new motion because I imagine that the majority will immediately reject it in plenary. However, I call on our various colleagues, including the majority, to pay attention to this type of case. Indeed, a motion of recommendation does not necessarily always amount to a political vision of opposition: like some resolutions voted by the majority and the opposition, it is a positive step to support the whole government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u84	Thank you for the answers, Madam Secretary. We can only hope that the timing will be strict and that it will go forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u85	The motion of recommendation has been withdrawn. Then let's move on to the next question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u86	At the beginning of November, we discussed the law of 4 April 2014 on mental health care in De Kamer. This led to a number of slopes that would be walked, namely that psychotherapists should have a master's degree, that transitional measures would be discussed, etc. At the moment, you are still working on it. This means that there is still considerable uncertainty in the sector. That is why I would like to ask you for an update. How's that bill coming? What transitional measures will be taken for the current psychotherapists working with a Bachelor's degree? Will additional training courses be organized for self-employed people with a Bachelor's degree in the future? What training courses are we talking about? How many ECTS points should this training include? Will psychotherapists be represented on the federal council? If so, in what form? I also had an additional question about the accreditation of prevention advisers, of which I do not know whether they fit in with this context. In the context of the revision of the Law of 4 April 2014, we have received many questions, not only from persons working in mental health care but also as a prevention advisor. So they're working on psychosocial well-being. That is actually a responsibility of your colleague Kris Peeters, but he could not answer everything. That's why I'm asking you the question. Which diplomas should be awarded to prevention advisers performing psychotherapeutic and/or psychosocial tasks? According to the plans planned, do they also have at least a master's degree in psychology, or how do you see it? Will you be in contact with your colleague, Mr Peeters, as well-being at work is his exclusive competence? If so, when are these calls scheduled?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u87	Minister, we passed this bill under the previous Parliament with a large majority. This work had not been done overnight, the process had called for "massages" to try to bring together a large majority and to have particular attention to the whole sector. The government agreement clearly and unequivocally recalled that: "The law of 4 April 2014 regulating the mental health care professions and amending Royal Decree 78 of 10 November 1967 on the exercise of the health care profession will be implemented without delay." Why don't you align yourself with the government agreement? Then we would like to know more about the text you have amended and sent to the Council of State. Beyond the amendment to the Act, will you also amend the implementing orders? If so, in what sense? You made a commitment to consult with the sector. Have these consultations taken place? Have all actors had the opportunity to give their position? How can we clearly frame things to avoid situations of abuse of the patient while taking into account the quality work done in a large number of cases with expertise and training that are not negligible? Finally, there are three main orientations for psychotherapists. A memorandum has been sent to you. I do not mention it here, but it takes up, in six points, the different aspects of a rigorous approach to psychotherapy towards patients and which clearly aims at the best possible quality for patients. Moreover, these are elements which are based on opinion No. 7855 of the Higher Council of Hygiene. So it's not something that has been written by a few people. That's the opposite! Last November, Madam Minister, you yourself recalled that this opinion was important to you "because this particularly motivated opinion includes good recommendations and a clear definition of psychotherapy, which is still supported by the academic world". Minister, will you take this six-point memorandum into account? I tried to be very concrete in my questions. So many questions for which, I hope, we will have your different answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u88	Madam Chair, Minister, once again, we are going back to the subject. Last November, we set up a Health Committee in which many of us had already expressed their concerns about the intentions and evolution of the work. The Council of Ministers of 5 February agreed on amendments to the Act. In presenting this amendment to the April 2014 Act, psychotherapy is defined as a form of treatment for clinical psychologists, clinical orthopedagogues and physicians. Psychotherapists, as such, would no longer be recognized as having a distinct profession. You say that this is about better guaranteeing the quality of patients' mental health care and that you are planning transitional measures for people who are not in the three categories (clinicians, orthopedagogues, doctors or psychiatrists). They would be trained so that they could continue to be recognized as psychotherapists. In the communication, you also say that there has been consultation with the various players in the sector. In committee, in November, you said that you had met with all the associations, and you mentioned them to us. The problem is that not all of these associations have been consulted. I am thinking in particular of the APPPsy, which is one of the three federations recognized by the Ministry of Middle Classes. Your firm or yourself did not officially meet with this federation. This gap really needs to be rectified. Like others of my colleagues, I have already quoted these federations in committee for the month of November. But as they were on your list, I would like to go back to the subject. Let me remind you that this is about psychoanalytic orientation. With regard to the amendments to the law that you are planning, I can join you when you say that things would have been simpler, if everything had been included in Royal Decree No. 78. I am thinking of measures relating to clinical psychologists, clinical orthopedagogues and psychotherapists. But this was not done because, in the interests of quality, it was necessary to take the time to define the requirements and the training as well as to determine who would train and approve the psychotherapists. The aim was also to integrate the latter where they should be, and possibly to provide for repayment arrangements. If your amendment had dealt with this topic, we could have followed you. But with the changes you have announced, we are going back 15 years and on all the work that has been done in consultation with all the actors. I would like to recall that this law of 2014 identifies skills to be acquired. Do you think that referring to a diploma title is more reassuring and ensures a better quality of the service rendered than referring to skills acquired in order to be able to start a specific training which must, under the law, meet a whole series of objectives and criteria which will have to be defined by the commission and the representatives of that profession? Which choice would be the safest and guarantee us the best quality? Just diplomas that have nothing to do with the exercise of psychotherapy? The law also speaks of continuous training, supervision and personal development, all of which are guarantees of quality. Therefore, I cannot understand what can justify squandering this question, by allowing only a doctor, a psychiatrist, a clinician psychologist, a clinician orthopaedagogue, to improvise himself as a good psychotherapist. I would like you to give me your arguments on this. In your opinion, psychotherapy would no longer be a profession, but a specific treatment that would be realized by a professional. This is totally contrary to the recognition that we seek to establish with regard to psychotherapy and psychotherapists. It is a question of recognizing trained professionals who make this discipline their profession and organize, throughout their career, their profession, their training and their supervision around it. In this regard, they generally combine different approaches to discipline, drawing on the four currents recognized by the 2014 law. Again, it is not certain that the four orientations are maintained and can be chosen both by the psychotherapists in their training and specializations, and by the people who consult them. However, the Higher Council of Health, the KCE and all the bodies that evaluate the quality of psychotherapy are formal: interest and quality depend on the choice and adaptation of the type of current, method and practice chosen by the psychotherapist and his patient, so that they correspond to the needs and mode of operation of the latter. In addition to the reference to the diploma rather than to the skills acquired, is it really respectful of the development of individuals, their suffering and their ill-being, to consider that it is sufficient to file a pedagogical diagnosis to apply a treatment which will be considered as such by an orthopedagogue performing psychotherapy? This is to simplify the way psychotherapy works! Why prohibit specialisation courses in psychotherapy for health, social and educational professionals, who are not initially doctors and psychologists? How is it more secure, safe or evidence-based? Are we not defending the interests of certain professional categories who do not want to open up and share the field of psychotherapy? What can justify submitting a non-health professional who has acquired the basic skills required for psychotherapy training to the supervision of a doctor, a clinician psychologist, an orthopaedagogue who is not specifically trained in psychotherapy themselves? Why not recognize autonomy in the exercise of psychotherapy for those who are trained according to the criteria set out in the 2014 Act? How is such supervision more effective than an ongoing process of supervision by trainers and peers who are also trained in psychotherapy in recognized schools and centres, as foreseen by the 2014 law? Finally, can you ensure that you meet all the federations and associations, since this has not been the case?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u89	Madam President, I fully share the findings and convictions that have just been expressed. I am not going to go into a discussion of the bill because it is not yet on this committee's agenda. Otherwise, I feel that the minister will accuse me of being impatient and that this project will happen someday, and I do not want to hear that. I would like the minister to confirm to me that there is a government agreement to unblock the work we have done. Yes or no, what we did in an agreement between French-speaking and Dutch-speaking, majority and opposition in support of psychotherapy professionals and patients is it unchecked? If the answer is positive, what are the reasons for it? If the answer is positive, my question to both the minister and the commission will be as follows: will the minister dare to discuss it, perhaps prior to the tabling, with the return of the Council of State, with those who participated in the drafting of the law, majority and opposition, Francophones and Dutch-speaking, and groups? Yes or no will she be able to put this on the table and discuss it with everyone? Subsequently, will she agree, even if it is a decision of the commission, if the bill, as it passes at the Council of State, finally comes to the agenda of this commission, to hear all those who need to be heard to understand why what was a hope for psychotherapy professionals and for patients is being detricted? The latter were protected both by the training of the psychotherapists and by their counsellors, as in distress they may be in the hands of people who may have no title or experience to deal with their suffering. I share what has been said. But I would like to know what is going to happen now. I am extremely shocked by what is happening in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u90	Madam President, I would like to thank Mrs Gerkens, Mrs Hufkens, Mrs Onkelinx and Mrs Fonck for their questions. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the question of the knowledge and skills required for psychotherapy practitioners, I would like to point out that the opinion of the Higher Council of Health of 26 June 2015, which is still present, has been followed on this point. With regard to psychotherapy, there are definitions, practices and conditions of accreditation. This opinion defines psychotherapy as a method of treatment in the field of health care and as the specialization of a number of health care professions. The importance of the scientific basis and the complexity of the evaluation of psychotherapeutic practice require that basic training be at least master level. In order to be able to offer psychotherapeutic care as qualitative as possible to patients, the psychotherapy practitioner must have a minimum of prior medical and scientific knowledge. However, in the context of the preliminary draft law approved at first reading by the Council of Ministers and now sent for an opinion to the Council of State, I foresee acquired rights for those already engaged in psychotherapy and/or who have started their studies. Mrs Gerkens, you insist on the importance of having enough "baggage", experience. This has been widely taken into account. Since I want to wait for the advice of the Council of State, I am not yet going into the details of these acquired rights, but there are several. It is also envisaged that other professional practitioners may be allowed to exercise psychotherapy. A legal framework is also provided for mental health support professions that may perform certain mental health benefits under supervision. In order to do so, it is necessary to draw up further implementing orders. I would also like to point out that I limited myself, when amending the law of 4 April 2014, to the aspects that fall within my competence, namely the exercise of medicine, the professions of health care and the quality of health care also in mental health. The organisation of psychotherapy training is not within my competence but rather within the competence of the Community Ministers who have the education in their powers. Several consultations were held as part of the development of the draft legislation. The sector was consulted, as I explained in my presentation to the committee on 10 November last, in the widest possible way. It goes without saying that it is impossible to involve every professional association or association of interest. However, the Psychoanalytic Guidance Psychologists Association (APPPsy), mentioned by Ms Gerkens, was consulted in May 2015. In conclusion, I would like to point out that there is a difference between receiving professional associations in order to listen to their views and adopt these views. The preliminary draft law amending the Law of 4 April provides that in future only doctors, clinical psychologists and clinical orthopedagogics will be eligible for autonomous psychotherapy. However, that regulation applies to those who normally practice psychotherapy in a sustainable way and do not occasionally identify certain psychotherapeutic activities within a completely different working context. Mrs Hufkens, it is not inconceivable that other welfare workers should be confronted with the question of the one-off imposition of certain psychotherapeutic practices in the exercise of their profession. When this happens sporadically and within their working context, the provisions on the exercise of psychotherapy do not apply. Therefore, no consultation is planned with my colleague, the Minister for Labour, unless you consider it necessary for other reasons. We have received several questions on this subject. It's a choice we made. You were here when I said – not at first when I made the introduction – that we had a reflection to determine in which directions we were going to adapt the 2014 law. That law was a step forward, but impossible. I was gonna run them, but she was impossible. I started as set out in the government agreement. Once again, I have begun to investigate how that law could be implemented, but it turned out to be impossible because certain crucial elements could not be implemented. We had to amend that law first. At the same time, we have indeed been more in tune with what is happening in the neighbouring countries, in particular that there must be some underlying medical knowledge as well as a certain level of studies. I believe that the work was very fast. The file is now before the Council of State for advice. Once we have received the opinion, we will make the necessary adjustments very quickly so that we can submit it to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u91	Madam Secretary, thank you for the brief state of affairs. As far as the prevention advisers are concerned, it is very clear to me. I do not think that consultation with Minister Peeters is really necessary. With regard to the law of 4 April 2014, I remember, in particular, that this was also clear at the hearing, that you put quality first and that you are working out an objective criterion for this. It's about the studies and the diploma. I hear talk here about acquired competences. In my view, we are putting everything at risk if we are allowed to give a job only to people with certain acquired competences. In that respect, I follow you very closely! I also think it is important to provide for transitional provisions for the current psychotherapists who are already working independently. The same applies to students who start or have already started their training.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u92	Madam Minister, of course I cannot be satisfied with your answer. I understand that you are not going to tell us about the project you are sending to the Council of State. However, when Mrs Onkelinx asks that when the project comes back, it would be interesting to take the time to discuss it with the actors concerned, I can follow it. That seems indispensable to me. Regardless of what you do not communicate as elements, in the arguments you put forward, the application was impossible. No, I don't! There were steps to follow, one after the other, by forming these councils that brought together the competent persons, which would enable the decrees to be implemented and taken. But of course, it was necessary to start this work as quickly as possible so that it could be implemented on 1 September and so that the training centres (universities, etc.) can adapt their training curricula. It falls within the competence of the Communities. But to say that a professional must have certain skills, it is within your decision-making power. After the European directive, the National Council of Nurses has established the competences and you must introduce something into the decree on this subject. As to how training will be organised, courses, hours, etc., this is not within our competence. But to say that at the end of the course, the person must have acquired such and such skill, well. In fact, the 2014 law says: people must have acquired skills in order to be able to practise as a psychotherapist. You're talking about a transitional period for those who are now practising as psychotherapists. Good for them. Many quality people have these skills. But we are also fighting for long-term psychotherapy to be practiced by people who will meet the same qualities in the future. In the elements of your answer, you say you have remained in your skills. You therefore consider that establishing the competencies of a professional under Order 78 or as part of a health intervention is not within your jurisdiction. I don't agree. It's your responsibility. You're also saying you're staying with health care professionals. Is that why in those who might have received specific training, you have apparently eliminated those who were not already health professionals (psychologists, psychiatrists, psycho-clinicians,...)? I do not understand this limitation. If we observe the path of those who are good psychotherapists, some were not health professionals.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u93	You also have to look at the others.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u94	It is for this reason, minister, that we have put so much energy into defining competencies. The requirements exceed the master's level, which is not enough. The out-going clinician psychologist is not a psychotherapist, and I hope we're not gonna change that. If he wants to do so, he must undergo long-term training. We're talking about four years longer than basic training. It is requested that those who are not psychologists or physicians initially acquire skills taught at the university. These bridges exist and must be maintained. If a social worker who does not have the medical and medico-scientific skills has to take a course for a year or a year and a half to acquire the necessary knowledge and to undertake psychotherapy training, why is this less good than if he or she is a doctor or psychiatrist? I therefore do not see any argument that can justify the limitation that you are advocating.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u95	You say you don't understand. But I see you understand me well, but you disagree. That's your right.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u96	Now I agree! At the same time, you are transforming psychotherapies performed by good specialists. It's a profession in itself. When the Higher Health Council speaks of specific working methods, it is right: these are not isolated acts performed by a psychiatrist or clinician. It is a way of getting in touch with someone and they are tools that are used with them to help them in their journey and their project. So we are not just talking about technical acts in psychotherapy. We have to get out of this pattern and recognize that it is a profession in its own right that must be able to practise independently without being limited as you would like. We may or may not agree, but we must not limit our exchange to this fact. That's what I'm afraid of. There is a reflection to have and you can contact the Higher Health Council again because, in his opinion, he does not say what you are saying. It would therefore be important to be able to re-discussion and reopen the debate. The Higher Council of Health also says that the existence and equivalence of the four recognized therapeutic currents must be preserved if freedom of choice is to be preserved, which is also important to you. I will turn my dissatisfaction into a reality by putting forward a motion. I hope that by the time this motion is defended in plenary, there will be some reflection on the subject. In this motion, I ask you to respect the enforcement of the law, as set out in the government agreement of October 2014; to respect the fundamental elements of this law but also a good quality psychotherapeutic practice, including the four currents, the guidelines set out in the report of the Higher Council of Hygiene; to consider competences rather than diplomas; to consider it as a profession; to consider the autonomy of this profession and to allow these trainings in universities, high schools and accredited centres. The accreditation or recognition of psychotherapists by the FPS Health must also be respected. When a physician specializes, he or she is also approved by an accreditation board composed of peers from the same profession and specialization. There is no reason that this is not the case for psychotherapists. Finally, I invite you to re-read this report 7855 of the Higher Council of Hygiene in order to respect the spirit and the letter, which are different from what you are telling us today. Ms. Onkelinx co-signed this motion, which I table in both our names.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u97	Madam President, Minister, you're making a turn. When I say you, I should say the government has made a turn since 2014, but also since the government agreement. So I'm trying to understand the reasons for this turn. In my opinion, there are three possibilities. The first of these could be legal reasons. It is true that an application was made to the Constitutional Court, notably by the ASBL Vlaamse Vereniging van Orthopedagogen. But this request does not address the chapter of the law as it exists today, namely Chapter 3 specific to psychotherapy. The reason is clearly not legal. The second reason could be scientific. Today, I didn't bring back the scientific literature because I already did it once and I saw how much it hurt you. But it cannot be said that the scientific literature includes elements that can motivate the changes you are making. The third reason could relate to the quality of services and the safety of patients. You spoke again today about the training component. The 2014 law provides for prerequisites, rigorous and verifiable training to guarantee the safety of patients. It is true that this is your responsibility. There is no question here of the organisation of training, which is not within your competence. What falls within your competence is to set requirements, to provide for control in order to frame and ensure the safety of patients. These provisions were indeed your responsibility. I don't understand that turn. I do not understand the reasons that you have not explained. You said today, Madam Minister, that your job was about the exercise of medicine and the quality of care. But your job isn't limited to the practice of medicine. It also concerns all health professionals. It also relates to the accessibility of patients to care. Mental health care is extremely important in the field. They're becoming more and more important. There is a growing demand for psychosocial assistance in our society. In the face of all this, I'm beginning to have doubts – I'm going to be totally frank with you. Have you not changed the law for budgetary reasons by saying to you: we will tighten and re-lock? If that's why, then the big loser is the patient, because this care will be far less accessible to the patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u98	You're very fancy, Mrs. Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u99	I think I still have the floor. I finish and say again how much, if that's it, the big loser will be the patient. Currently, supply is already insufficient to meet demand; and believing that tomorrow the demand for psychosocial assistance will be lower is a total lure. I ask you to be very attentive to this shift in government as a whole, to review the motivations and explanations. Above all, I ask you not only to look at the exercise of medicine and the quality of care, but also at accessibility for the patient, including mental health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u100	Madam Minister, for the report, what you are saying is not true. The law was obviously applicable. It was sufficient to work in the decrees, in the various councils provided for in the law, to make it applicable. This is called implementing orders, implementing the provisions of the law. Everyone's wondering why you're turning. Everyone has their opinion. My humble opinion is that you have made a turn for reasons of opportunism and, above all, corporatism. Doctors' advice. You're a doctor yourself. Too bad for the others. You have a corporatist opinion and you apply it. I note that politically, you managed to fold the CD&V. I was glad to hear Mrs Muylle, but she's suddenly mute like a carp. Thirdly, the options you put on the table are very clear. They show contempt for psychotherapy professionals, the majority of whom are of very high quality and constitute a real support for the suffering population. On the other hand, you put patients at risk because by implementing what you are recommending, you will see a proliferation of people who do not have the training they claim to have and who will simply use another term to do what they are doing right now, without responding to the conditions of training. The dictionary is full of words that they can use to become real "managers of consciousness or life", "coachs",... and thus escape the system you want to set up. Your small corporatist vision will cause problems, both with professionals and with patients. I'm telling you things more clearly than others. By objectively looking at the situation, in a year and a half, in addition to the program laws, you have introduced a bill "miscellaneous provisions" that has been passed. The second bill is a step backwards from what made the glory of an institution like ours. On a social issue, it is indeed a question of ignoring the majority/opposition border and working together, outside the Community's barriers, in order to change things. I will do everything in my power as a parliamentarian so that your project does not end. I weigh my words: I sincerely find that what you do is a shame!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u101	Motions were tabled to conclude this discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u102	Mrs Onkelinx, you have been the Minister responsible for seven years and have never found a solution, and you call this a disgrace.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u103	That's the best! Madam President, how many years have you not been here and for the first time (...). It's a shame!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u104	You can continue the discussion afterwards, but this is not constructive for our work. We will conclude our work. As has been said, a simple motion has also been tabled by Mr Janssens, Mrs Hufkens and Mrs Muylle.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-24-54-commissie-ic346x.u105	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms Muriel Gerkens and Ms Laurette Onkelinx and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Muriel Gerkens and the response of the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, asks the government 1. respect the government declaration of 10 October 2014, which stated that "the Act of 4 April 2014 regulating the mental health care professions and amending Royal Decree No. 78 of 10 November 1967 on the exercise of the health care professions will be implemented without delay" (p. 65); 2. and therefore to implement in practice this law, which was passed by a large majority in the previous legislature, which means: 2a. recognize the four orientations set out in the report 7855 of the Higher Council of Hygiene in 2005 (behaviouralist, psychoanalytic, family systemic, humanist), 2b. allow specialized training in psychotherapy to be provided in universities, colleges and accredited private institutes, 2c. to consider the exercise of psychotherapy as a profession, a "job" which performs autonomously but which requires continuous training, approved by the SPF Santé, under the supervision of a Higher Council of Mental Health, subject to compulsory supervision and personal work, etc.... and not as an application, a specific technical act which may be performed by a doctor, psychiatrist or clinical psychologist, 2d. to recognize also the full autonomy of clinician psychologists in AR 78, not to subject them to medical prescription or treatment routes because these are different paradigms, 2nd. to grant FPS Health accreditation or visa to psychotherapists and clinical psychologists if the training has been completed through universities and accredited training centres; 2f. allow persons who have been performing psychotherapy for more than three years to continue their exercise independently and to bear the title provided that they are recognized by a professional association; 3. to take into account the memorandum which the psychotherapists of the three main guidelines have sent to the Minister of Health. This memorandum sets out in six points the essential aspects of rigorous and patient-friendly psychotherapy. These elements are based on the same opinion 7855 of the Higher Council of Hygiene, which, as the minister indicated in November 2015 in the Health Committee, "remains important to her" because "this opinion, particularly motivated, includes good recommendations and a clear definition of psychotherapy. It cannot be ignored: this opinion remains supported by the academic world." (Doc 54 – 1535/001 – pp. 22 and 16)." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Muriel Gerkens and Mrs Laurette Onkelinx and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Muriel Gerkens and the reply of the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, asks the government 1. to comply with the Government Agreement of 10 October 2014, as set out in p. 65 states that the Law of 4 April 2014 regulating mental health professions and amending Royal Decree No. 78 of 10 November 1967 on the pursuit of the health professions will be carried out without delay; 2. implement that law, which was adopted by a large majority during the previous parliamentary term, i.e.: 2a. Recognizing the four reference frameworks set out in Opinion No. 7855 of 2005 of the High Health Council (behavioural-oriented psychotherapy, psychoanalysed psychotherapy, familial and system-oriented psychotherapy and humanist-oriented psychotherapy), 2b. ensure that specific training in psychotherapy can be provided by universities, colleges and recognized private institutions, 2c. to consider the practice of psychotherapy as a profession, 'a profession', which is exercised in an autonomous manner, but which requires further training, which must be recognised by the Public Health Office, under the control of a high mental health board, which is subject to supervision and requires a personal commitment... and not as an application or a specific technical act which can be carried out by a doctor, a psychiatrist or a clinical psychologist, 2d. in KB No. 78 to recognise the full autonomy of the clinical psychologists and to exclude them from the medical prescription and care pathway arrangements, since these are different reference models, 2nd. grant the recognition or visa of the FPS Public Health to the psychotherapists and clinical psychologists who have successfully followed the training in the universities and the recognised training centres, 2f. allow persons who have been practicing psychotherapy for more than three years to pursue the profession autonomously and carry out the title, in so far as they are recognised by a professional association; 3. take into account the memorandum addressed to the Minister of Health by the psychotherapists of the three main reference frameworks. That memorandum contains six points that are crucial for serious and patient-oriented psychotherapy. They are based on the above-mentioned opinion No. 7855 of the Supreme Health Council. As the Minister stated in November 2015 in the Committee on Health herself, that opinion remains important. That advice, which is particularly motivated, contains good recommendations and a clear definition of psychotherapy. That advice must not be ignored: the academic world supports it (Doc. 54....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 22 and 16).' A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Renate Hufkens and Ms. Nathalie Muylle and Mr. Dirk Janssens. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Renate Hufkens and Mr Nathalie Muylle and Mr Dirk Janssens. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
