ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u2	Prime Minister, I have just come back from a demonstration where tens of thousands of people were present. My voice is of course a bit hoarse after such a demonstration. I have met many people who were furious, from public services, from the private sector, young people, from the cultural sector, from Hart over Hard. What keeps coming up? People don't understand that the government isn't gonna get the money where it is. There's a 4.2 billion hole. What ideas are being put forward? Again we are talking about an index jump; we would make medicines more expensive for the sick; we would again charge more taxes and more VAT, from 21 % to 22 %. People are tired of it, because when it comes to thinking tracks, there is another taboo. It's always the same here in Belgium. No measure that has been published in the press today refers to the introduction of a capital tax in Belgium. That's taboo here. The sick make the pay, the workers and the servants pay, that is not a problem, but making the rich pay is taboo again. The worst thing, Prime Minister, is that you had a budget deficit last year and, in order to correct that budget deficit, you opted for a policy of saving and what is the result of this policy of saving? There's a bigger deficit now. That just doesn't work. Why? You take money out of the pockets of workers and servants. These people consume less and therefore there remains a total status quo at economic level. Today, you are proposing to go even further. Soon you will answer again that there is no money in Belgium, that we cannot touch it, that everyone has to pay taxes. Well, yesterday, the study bureau of the Labour Party brought out our top 50. It's not the top 50 of Radio Contact. What's in the study? It has clearly been shown that for the 50 major companies mentioned I recommend that everyone listen carefully to a tax rate of 2.7 %. 2.7 %! This creates a deficit in the state treasury of 6.9 billion. I ask you a clear question, Prime Minister, when will you finally get the money from the rich? When will the money finally come from the big assets and from the big companies? When will you finally stop getting the money from the sick and from the workers and servants of our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u3	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, once again tens of thousands of people are in the streets of Brussels. This parade, they do it at an important moment. In a few days, you will decide on economic and social policy measures for 2017. I know that you are in a difficult time: growth in dungeon, massive collective redundancies, such as those untenable from Caterpillar, a catastrophic budget hole and the impression, above all, that you are unable to control the budget. And above all, the citizens know that they have already given a great deal. They have given, and they have not forgotten, they constantly remind, with the index jump; they have given because you have decided on very important savings in social security, taxes on consumption, the increase in the price of electricity, and I pass, of course, and the best. Mr. Leemans, this morning, said that on average, a household has lost some 1,000 to 1,200 euros a year as a result of your choice of measures. And this is obviously not over, since the newspapers are currently serving us a whole series of possible new measures. It is a further increase in taxes on consumption with VAT; it is to remove the character of unemployment insurance to make it social assistance; it is, even worse, to make the sick pay with an increase in the price of medicines. Today, I will not ask you what steps you have taken or intend to take. You haven't decided yet. But what I'm looking for is a commitment to stop taking the citizens for taxable pigeons that I want and to dare look where the money is, the means to fill our deficit. In a way, Prime Minister, it is your responsibility to reconcile the country. I'd even say, it's your duty.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, even today thousands of people are on the streets protesting against the savings policy you have been pursuing with your government for two years. People have no confidence in it and they do not believe that the right policy is being pursued. That's because people have had to turn in a lot. For example, there is the index jump of 2 %, it has to work longer, the more expensive electricity bill and you name it. And for all the efforts that people have made, they do not even get a budget that is in order. The deficit is 4 billion. People still have no answer to the question where that money actually went. People don't understand that. You are praised for your policy, but people do not understand and wonder where the money has gone. Why, they reason, have they had to turn in so much if there is still a deficit of 4 billion? Colleagues of CD&V, Mr Vercamer, people are waking up today with a second index jump, a slope that this government wants to walk. There may be a tax increase or the medicines will be reimbursed a little less. Again the same target group is addressed. Mr Vercamer, you may tweet that your coalition partner may have lost all sense of reality and that people want a just division, but people no longer believe you. Everyone who spoke to me on the street today says they're disappointed in you and your party. You need to get your back straight! You must have rights and ensure that there is a fair and just policy. This will benefit the people. Prime Minister, together with my party, I would ask you not to go through a second index jump. People are really sick of it. Just make sure that all those who have to pay taxes actually pay their taxes. We would have gone a long way further, and you would have regained the confidence of the citizen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u5	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to thank you for mobilising so strongly and so clearly for today's event. Every day it becomes a little clearer what this majority, these four parties stand for. Every day the acceptance of this majority in society decreases. Why are people angry today? Why were a lot of people out there today? Why were there many more people angry than those who were there today? First of all, because of the well of 4.2 billion. Despite all the efforts, despite all the invoices, despite all those who stick their necks out, there is still a 4.2 billion well, signed Johan Van Overtveldt. Today, I even consider it a provocation, Mr De Roover, there is the idea for a new index jump, a second index jump, signed the N-VA. Colleagues of the N-VA, the index is not a luxury product. The index is there to make sure that people can pay their invoices at the end of the ride, at the end of the month. Especially with this government, especially with this federal and Flemish government, the index is extremely important, Mr De Roover. You're shaking no. The reason why people are on the streets today is because they find that there is a political party saying that they want to make another index jump. Colleagues of the N-VA, Mr De Roover, do you really think that the workers should close the well of Johan Van Overtveldt? Or do you really think that's what pensioners should do? Or do you think the officials should close that well? Mr De Roover, do you really think that the four thousand families that have been confronted with bad news over the last September month, namely the employees of Caterpillar, ING and Douwe Egberts, should dampen the well of Johan Van Overtveld? Is that what the N-VA and this majority advocate? Prime Minister, I am not asking you to say what you will do today. You don't have to tell me today how you're going to close the well of Johan Van Overtveldt. On one point, however, you are quite clear, extremely formal and 100% clear, and that is whether or not there will be an index jump. That is what you must tell this Parliament today. Is there going to be an index jump, yes or no? Please be clear about that today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, in front of the demonstrators who march in numbers on the street, in front of the parliamentarians who speak in this rostrum, you could do the big back. You could speculate on a shortening of the trade union movement, on the feeling that the grunt will eventually fade. You might pretend that public opinion in Belgium, which does not have the revolutionary background, will eventually get tired of repeated strikes, demonstrations, and solve itself, resigning itself to this kind of grimace soup that you have been serving him for the past two years. Yes, Prime Minister, you could do the big back, and you'd be wrong. You'd be wrong because this country doesn't need resignation. He needs hope. No, not just a hope of "jobs, jobs and jobs", but a hope based on concrete prospects for improving the economic, social and budgetary situation. Unfortunately, in relation to these challenges, it must be noted that after two years, your government is failing. The social dialogue to which you keep referring today is a dialogue of the deaf that is a long-term threat to social democracy in this country. The unemployment rate has increased in one year and business closures are increasing, raising fears of the worst on the economic front. And in terms of the budget, your Ministers of Budgets and Finance have not reassured us. This week, in committee, they were unable to outline any credible prospect of a recovery in our public finances. They prefer to let this museum of horrors, this catalogue of horrors (removal of the price of medicines, increase of VAT, extra index jumps, measures against savers) leak into the press, doubtless thinking that on arrival it will be "less worse" than what was feared and that we can therefore, at the end of the conclave, say that we have escaped the worst and that, finally, we must actually resign ourselves to the policy of this government. In the meantime, Prime Minister, there is a sense of failure and injustice in public opinion. I would just like to ask you whether, two years after the beginning of your policy, which is obviously not bearing its fruit – or they are very dry! – you persist in your initial choices or if you dare to change this policy and start making a change that would finally meet the expectations of the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u7	Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when structural change is taking place and when policies make fundamentally different choices, it is normal that there should be a little concern. However, the proportions that some people feel of this concern, here in Parliament but also in the streets, are no longer realistic. Anyone who knows the facts and figures better will immediately see that today's demonstration spamphlet contains just wrong information. They ask for more purchasing power, while the figures of the National Bank of only two weeks ago show that the collective purchasing power of the Belgians is improving, thanks to the tax shift, thanks to job creation and despite the low interest rates and the index jump. People are demanding more jobs for the people. The figures for August show that there are 36 000 unemployed less than one year ago, including those aged between 50 and 60 years old. Good pensions are advocated, while this government's pension reform just makes sure that those who are still working today will have a good pension later. One wants correct taxes, while the government has ensured that those who work are left net more at the end of the month. There is also a corporate tax reform on the table that will be much fairer for our SME debt holders. [[Rumor]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u8	Please let Mr. Spoorten speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u9	Mr President, the truth does seem to provoke some resentment. I'm gonna go back to the pamphlet. Today, correct taxation is being advocated and good public service is being demanded. However, with the simplification of structures, the current government wants to guarantee a better service, with less government control than the 54% with which we are now world champions. Finally, the savings in social security are also being sued. However, the current government is giving more and more money to social security and, above all, it is ensuring that benefits reach those who need them. That is why I have two very brief questions. First of all, Prime Minister, can you confirm that the government will continue along this path in order to finalise the necessary structural reform? Secondly, do you know why the trade unions are calling for strike and protest?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u10	Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it will soon be two years since the Michel government is in place. When we analyze objectively... [[Rites on the benches of the opposition]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u11	When we analyse the situation objectively and calmly, we can only rejoice. According to Eurostat, since the government took office, 76,000 jobs have been created. According to the same source, the number of jobseekers in Belgium has never been so low in 25 years. [[Applause on the benches of the majority]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u12	There were 700,000 in 1992. There are 570,000 of them this year. We're at 8.6%. Net business creation amounts to 19,000 units. Bankruptcy decreased by 13% in 2015, as demonstrated by a study by Graydon. The number of job losses resulting from bankruptcies is also decreasing. There's Caterpillar, but it's a tree that hides the forest. One hears a falling tree; one does not hear the forest of the companies that grow! According to the FEB, and Mr. Hedebouw will be happy, the wage disability has decreased. Exports are regaining market share. As for our trade balance, it has increased. It hasn't happened since 2008. These are objective analyses! This translates into a two-place jump in the OECD ranking in terms of competitiveness for our country. It's a truth you don't want to hear. I am therefore surprised to see some parties taking a stand against measures that create jobs. Mr Dispa, earlier, said that the unemployment rate was higher. That's not true, Mr. Dispa! I am also surprised to see that strikes and demonstrations are taking place, when they have no object. We're manifesting, but we don't know why. That's what's happening today! It is a political and non-social manifestation. According to the OECD report, there remains a major problem in Belgium, namely the rigidity of the labour market. It is high time to go even further in this flexibility. Prime Minister, can you give us any information with regard to the forecast in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u13	Mr President, let me explain to Mr Clarinval why we were with 50 000 people just on the streets of Brussels: Walloons, Brussels, Flemish, workers, job seekers, young people, young people, people who are tired of it, Mr Clarinval! They are tired of this government that is growing deficits, and then give them the note, Prime Minister! They are tired of the government's savings on the backs of the weakest: young people, women, the sick! They're tired of a government that can't fight tax fraud and financial crime! They're tired of a government negotiating the TTIP and CETA, Prime Minister! They are tired, Mr Clarinval, of a government that always gives more gifts to multinationals without compensation in terms of jobs! They are tired of a government that has no energy vision or environmental ambition! They are tired of a government that has no vision for the future and is not preparing for tomorrow! They're tired of a government that even dares to consider a second index jump this morning! Prime Minister, one is provocation. Two would again make workers and social recipients pay for the failure of your socio-economic policies. Three would damage even more the social security which is a heritage of this country and a tool of extraordinary economic stability. Automatic wage indexation, Prime Minister, is not a gadget, it is not luxury. It is an adaptation of workers' and beneficiaries' incomes to changes in the cost of living. This is what allows them to eat, to heat up, to have leisure, and it is essential. Prime Minister, I have three questions for you. You're preparing a budget. First, can you commit yourself to the fact that, under this budget, there are no index jumps or new linear savings in social security, such as increases in drug prices? Secondly, are you finally going to make the income of capital and the fraudsters properly contribute to the effort to which we are subjected? Thirdly, are you going to keep margins for an intelligent recovery of our economy, prepare tomorrow, invest in research and development, go and get those jobs we need?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as always, I thank all the speakers. It is the vitality of the democratic debate and it shows that a conviction is shared on every bench, at least I hope: the will to succeed in a project to revive the economy by creating jobs, even if the paths to achieve it are different. It is true, Mr Hedebouw, that I do not believe that Cuba, North Korea or the Soviet Union are models of economic, social and freedom success. Having said that, our responsibility as a government is to work to strengthen our economy and put our country in order. That is the stated ambition of this government agreement. I want to point out from the outset that budgetary work is important. Gradually putting our public finances in order, moving towards fiscal balance is essential. It's not an easy exercise. About 10 days ago, for example, the Plan Office revised macroeconomic projections, up to a 0.3% reduction in growth for 2017. The impact will be a big billion euros, in the effort to be made for 2017. Why? Essentially because the Plan Bureau, like other international institutions, took the vote on Brexit into consideration. It is to give a lot of power and influence to Johan Van Overtveldt to consider that he would be responsible for the vote on Brexit and its consequences on the 2017 budget. First point. Secondly, of course, we are going to work on trying to put this budget on track. In accordance with the requirements, we will be in order on 11 October to present the declaration and the lines of the budget. We will address it to Europe on 15 October, as planned. We will of course have an in-depth debate, not on rumours, leaks, assumptions or speculations, but on the basis of decisions taken by a government. I propose that we do not put the plough before the oxen and that we work with the required method. I come to the second important point. In addition to the reorganisation, we are clearly committed to structural reform. We are convinced that structural reform is needed to support job creation. The tax shift is a good and good example: a clear reduction in the burden on labour results in concrete results. I can respect the fact that, in the opposition, it is said that "this is not the right path", that "these are not the right solutions", that "there is a need for a more collectivist economy, more state-of-the-art". I can respect that this is the point of view on part of the opposition benches. However, I would like to point out that these structural reforms – and I say so with the greatest sobriety – deliver a number of results that are not questionable because they are consolidated by the Plan Office, by the National Bank. I give you a few examples. Since October 2014, we have created 76,000 jobs, 50,000 in the private sector, when under the previous legislature 7,000 jobs have been destroyed, eliminated. The latest data on private investment show a growth in 2016 of 11.7% of private investment. Exports are up 5.4%. At the World Economic Forum, we win two places. It hasn't happened in the last five years. Whether you like it or not, 76,000 people, who didn't work yesterday, work today. It's more purchasing power. It's more freedom. It's less poverty for families, for tens of thousands of families. I will conclude by saying that we have a great deal of respect for the concerns and concerns expressed by the workers. They want more purchasing power; they're right. We want to continue working on it: + 2 per cent according to the Plan Office and the World Bank. We will continue our efforts. We are also convinced that strategic investment for the future is an important element in our global approach to job creation and with greater support for our economy. And so I will once again, as I have been doing for the last two years with tenacity and obstinacy, repeat that there is a great openness with the social partners to see how we can improve and strengthen the capacity for economic growth; but there is also a great willingness to continue to act to make our country more modern, economically sound and truly able to finance the challenges of tomorrow in terms of social protection, health care and pension financing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u15	We have therefore heard a Prime Minister and a Liberal Member of Parliament say that everything is getting better and better: unemployment is decreasing, job creation is increasing, and social recipients are doing well. Seriously, what planet do you live on? No, but "Hello Earth, this is Oxo"! That's not possible! Do you live the same reality as us when we're in the neighborhoods? You feel it, people don't live that! People are getting harder and harder to tie both ends. People lose their jobs in Caterpillar and, on Monday, job losses will be announced at ING. But where do you live, please? Stop relying solely on figures, forecasts, which do not materialize in reality! Today, we have to face reality. People are suffering more and more and you're doing coconut here! Your budget, this is the debate that no one has spoken about today in the government! A deficit of 4.2 billion. Every year, you tell us your intention to absorb it. Thanks to austerity measures, everything will be better! And every year, the deficit is getting bigger and bigger! So stop saying that there is no money in Belgium! We made our Top 50 yesterday. Fifty large companies, which have been on the street in Belgium, pay a tax of 2.7% while we, the workers, pay 40%: 6.9 billion euros which should land in the state coffers and which are not there! Go get the money from these companies, from the rich, but stop coming to get the money from our pockets! We've given enough. We're going to lead the fight and get the Prime Minister back.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u16	Prime Minister, I would first like to say a word to Mr Clarinval. Mr Clarinval, I found your intervention to be rare, because it expressed contempt for the demonstrators and for the workers. You said, "Caterpillar, it's the tree that hides the forest." What do you think the workers of ING, IBM, AXA, Ethias, P&V say at this moment, I pass and the best? What, then, is this contempt for the world of work? It's unbearable!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u17	Prime Minister, admit that in your answer, you left us little hope. We know that the workers are concerned about the measures that you are preparing with Mr Peeters: the 45-hour law; but also, once again, the willingness to attack the workers, who have already been entitled to index jumps and whose wages are likely to be corsed through a revision of the 1996 law. Now, it is the entire population, from the youngest to the oldest, that clearly has to expect a decrease in its purchasing power. Mr Michel, you are busy, brick by brick, destroying the social model that we patiently built. The OECD felt that, despite the injustices that remain, this model allowed our country, before your government took office, to know the most exemplary well-being situation in the world. I'll just tell you this. Being in power is one thing, but exercising it with respect for all citizens, with particular attention to the weakest of them, is another story. I feel like you still have a long way to go!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u18	Prime Minister, your good news show is unbelievable. Unbelievable! People don't believe you anymore. Yeah, there were jobs added. I like to hear that. But let's look at the quality of the jobs that have been added. I'm also looking at you, Mr. Secretary of Work. People's biggest fear today is losing their jobs. When they open the newspaper, they see every day that one company closes after another. At the same time, they hear the government saying that it is doing well, because there are jobs coming in. People don't believe that anymore. When people see their invoices increase and at the same time see their purchasing power decrease, while the government says it will ensure that everyone gets an extra 100 euros, they no longer believe that. So, Prime Minister, stop not listening to the people. Get a fair policy at last!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u19	Mr Peeters, what did you notice in the Prime Minister's reply? Have you noticed, fellow Members? The Prime Minister will not deny that there will be an index jump. The Prime Minister does not answer the question of several MEPs whether or not the government will decide. Prime Minister, various groups and tens of thousands of people have asked you today: do not do that! That index is needed to pay our bills. You don't want to answer that today. Does that scare you that people are coming out on the street? Then there are fellow Members who do not understand why people are angry. That's why people are angry, Mr. Tracken. Actually, I'm sorry. Normally, Mr De Roover does not avoid any debate, but today he stays at home because he does not dare to say that his party wants officials, employees and pensioners to pay the bill again. Apparently, there are all kinds of notebooks circulating. These are notes on an index jump, notes on an increase in VAT, notes on less social protection. There would be better circulation of a more equitable VAT and more equitable taxation. Prime Minister, Mr Peeters, this is my final point. Instead of writing notes about the index jump and additional invoices, write a note on fair taxation. Write a note about a fair contribution of the greatest abilities. Write a note about a real battle against Panama Tourists and the BahamasLeaks. It is time to write a note on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u20	Mr President, Mr Clarinval, you had to dare! Tell the workers of Caterpillar that they are the tree that hides the forest! Frankly, when one gets carried away by his fervour, one ends up falling into the caricature. The problem with caricatural discourse is that they end up in the overbidding, and that they no longer stick to the reality as it is felt by the population. Prime Minister, you have not escaped the caricature either. You are opposed to the economic model of Cuba, the Soviet Union, North Korea, and that makes us a good leg. Invoking Brexit as the cause of this country's economic difficulties: frankly, I expected better from you! I expected more lucidity. Actually, you seem incorrigible to me. I really believe that you have illusions about the state of the country. The country is not well. And you have illusions about the effectiveness of your policy. You tell us that this is better: it reminds me of the Coué method, which the French President loves. François Hollande also said to his country for a long time: "It's better, it's better, it's better." No one believes it. In you, the public also has the feeling, not that it's better, but that it's going from bad to worse. That message, obviously, you don't share it. Your form of autism worries me for the further development of our development and for the future of this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u21	Prime Minister, I am pleased to hear that you wish to continue along this path. Above all, I would like to stress that activation must remain a priority. Besides job creation, it is also the challenge to ensure that the people on the sidelines can fill those jobs. In this way, our level of activity can increase and our social security will not be broken down by stone, but be built up and guaranteed for the future. In this sense, it is good that things such as the quickscan and the integration plan are in place within the government. It is therefore also important for us in Parliament to work on a completely new concept of employment integration jobs, which will also help long-term sick and disabled people to find their way to the labour market. I would particularly like to call on everyone, including the people who are arguing today, including the social partners, to put our shoulders together on a project that can guarantee our social protection and our prosperity for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u22	Mrs Onkelinx, I do not accept what you have said about me at all. If you don't like giving objective figures from the National Bank, Graydon, Eurostat, if you don't like these figures...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u23	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u24	It's not contempt, it's just an objective analysis. I simply invite you to no longer have ideological eyes, to look at reality and to stop insulting people by being contemptuous. Forget your ideological eyes, see the reality in front of you and stop these unworthy attacks! Prime Minister, on the other hand, I invite you to continue along this path, which shows that it is a source of positive results. (...): You insulted the workers of Caterpillar.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u25	I didn't insult Caterpillar workers. That's completely wrong. And it is not worthy of you to say that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u26	Prime Minister, you said a few weeks ago that with the Caterpillar file, we were reaching the limits of a system. We enjoyed it. With your comments here, in the House, and those of Mr.Clarinval and the N-VA, we are reaching the limits of the denial of reality in relation to, not numbers, but people who have lost their jobs today, are worried about their future and that of their children. Prime Minister, I asked you three specific questions. You didn't answer any of the three. I think it's because you're caught in a pit. You didn't answer about social security savings and index jump. You did not respond to the capital income tax and you did not respond to an intelligent stimulus plan. Well, that's because you're caught up, on the one hand, between Mr. Van Overtveldt, who is not doing his job as Minister of Finance (to get tax back, to fight tax fraud) and who creates these deficits and, on the other hand, between Mr. From Wever and the rest of the N-VA that says, "We can still type in the security. We can still save money." Your silence with regard to this is very serious. I wish, as Prime Minister, that you had more firm words, that you would say that what you call "noise" is not reality, and that you would commit your government to not seeing these catastrophic scenarios come into being. Prime Minister, I ask you to really get out of this silence and not be complicit in this scenario of the end of Belgium and the end of our social security system.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot stop myself from commenting on the previous debate. [[Rumor]] Thank you for your interest. I think it's important to note that it's dangerous to try to capture the displeasure, the so-called anger, the anger, to talk in terms of people being angry, you don't listen to the people, you finally do what people are asking you to do. I always say that the "Rassemble" of social displeasure has never led to a better society. The acidification I find here today with the opposition... Mr Detiège, normally I am not in favour of new taxes, but if we were to introduce a tax on acidification... [[Interruptions by banks]] They're scared! I'm not normally in favour of new taxes. [[Interruptions by banks]] Mr President, this is being deducted from my speaking time, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u28	It shall be deducted from your speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u29	Thank you. I told you I'm not normally in favour of new taxes, but if we introduced a tax on acidification, red and green would pay themselves blue, I'm sure. [[Interruptions by banks]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, you can do this for many more minutes, but speaking time is simply stopped.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u31	Prime Minister, when it comes to job creation, your government must not receive lessons from anyone. Less burdens on people and less burdens on businesses give rise to job creation without prior notice in the private sector. 68 000 jobs have been created in the private sector in the past period. I know, of course, that there are companies that put the books down, but if you make the difference between job creation and on the other hand the jobs that are lost, then your government, your policy and your politics are on the winning side. I live in a province where the job offer is higher today than before the closure of Ford Genk. In the face of all the acidification that is being displayed here today, it must be made clear... [[Interruptions by banks]] Mr President, I insist on using my speaking time here. I have already been silenced by Mr Frédéric. I don't know what he's trying to do. Mr Frédéric, are you afraid of the debate? Are you afraid of what I'm going to say?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u32	Not at all!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u33	Mr President, this is an incident. I know Mr Frédéric as a good colleague, but at the moment he does not respect the Rules of Procedure. I have the floor and I must not be interrupted.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u34	Mr Dewael, you have a minute. You really need to keep it short.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u35	Go to the street, Mr. Frédéric!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u36	I was there this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u37	Go back!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, on a point of order.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u39	In addition to job creation, there is a second aspect that I would like to highlight now. For an economy, in addition to a budget in order whose figures are correct, it is equally important to invest. I am concerned about the fact that the public authorities in our country are insufficiently...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u40	Colleagues, the Rules of Procedure are the same for everyone. I even have a chronometer. So, Mr. Dewael, we have to conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u41	Mr President, I would like to say that I have not yet been able to develop any ideas.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u42	That's an exaggeration.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u43	Mr President, if I am allowed and if you will allow me, I would like to continue, but I would like to be able to say two sentences one after the other without being interrupted. Once again, I think it is a disgrace for parliamentary democracy to refuse to listen to each other, and I think you should make that point.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u44	Okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u45	I was getting to the point of public investment. We all note that all governments have started to invest to a lesser extent. Mr Prime Minister, it is in that context that I have noted with satisfaction the fact that you are pursuing an investment pact in which governments should invest in crucial...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u46	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u47	Mr Laaouej, that makes no sense. Mr Dewael has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u48	Thank you, Mr President. An investment pact that should indeed be the engine for crucial investment in economic sectors such as the aviation sector, Mr Prime Minister, because I think aviation, energy, infrastructure and telecommunications are sectors in which public authorities need to invest more in the coming years. My question is very clear. I don't think public authorities should do that alone. Today we see that our country is sitting on a pile of savings of around EUR 250 to 260 billion. In addition to the budgets that need to be in order, we need to develop instruments so that this savings can be invested together with public authorities in vital sectors, strategic sectors of our economy. What will happen in the coming weeks in the entire Zaventem file and our airport is important in that sense. I think you should also give the signal to the foreign society that our government too, the federal government and the regional authorities are prepared to continue investing in the aviation industry, because I think that aviation industry is good for creating thousands of jobs. Mr President, I would also like to say that I have been disgraced. I am going to raise this point, because this is a disgrace. [[Tumult]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall have this debate at the place where it should be held. All I can tell you is I'm quieting my time with applause and applause. I'm not a pharmacist. I've got a nice little stats here. That is one time in favour of the other and the next time to the disadvantage of the other. As an extreme encore one statement, Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u50	Mr President, I respect Mr Dewael too much for you and for yelling when he is speaking. That's not right. On the other hand, and that is all I want to say on this point, the Rules of Procedure also apply to Mr Dewael. If he was interested in the debate just now, and rightly so, then he should have signed up for it. Mr President, if you want to monitor these two matters, we will have more pleasant and pleasant debates. That would be good for us, but it would also be good for the viewers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u51	Mr Dewael, if you let the little people pay themselves blue, you might end up in black and blue. Mr President, your style of accompaniment is actually a reflection of how the policy is conducted here. Some people get all the opportunities, and others don't. Prime Minister, now on to Brussels Airlines. You may be surprised, but I have an absolute admiration for people, policy makers, managers and employees who are fighting for their company, those of a company that is in quicksand with united forces to recreate a beautiful business and achieve results. This requires a great deal of effort, from management, from policy makers, but also from staff. Many of those people do that from a sort of pride:.I do not Here they do, too, and some may not like to hear it, from some sort of national pride. It is a Belgian company operating on aircraft. It is also a company that is important for the region. Ten thousand jobs are connected to the airport. I therefore believe that we, as policy-makers, as politicians, should treat and support it in a decent manner. That is why I have a number of questions for you, Prime Minister. Firstly, are you aware of the importance of Brussels Airlines? Secondly, do you think that after so many efforts by policy makers, managers and employees, this company can be given away for an apple and an egg? This is detrimental to the shareholders, but it is also detrimental to the staff! Because there's a discussion about the scenario that it's going to be a low-cost company. I have already said it here in Parliament: if you pay EUR 50 for a ticket to fly back and forth, how much do you think these people will earn? Prime Minister, would you please start negotiations or talks with Lufthansa to set up a scenario for Brussels Airlines, as for Austrian Airlines and Swissair? I realise that we live in a global world and that there must be networks between large companies. I don't have a problem with that at all. However, make sure that there are local centres that can conduct policies in their own way within a given framework and that people can retain their individuality.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u52	Mr President, I have two minutes to talk to you about the Brussels Airlines workers and I will use them because I think they are worth it. What I have just experienced through Mr Dewael's words is quite indecent. I think if we have two minutes to talk about these workers, we have to use them. Prime Minister, Lufthansa's plan to buy Brussels Airlines can be a blow to our country. A Belgian flagship would once again be in danger of flying under a foreign flag and thus leaving our country. The 3,400 employees of Brussels Airlines are obviously the first to be involved. The subcontractors but also the workers of the airport of Buxelles-National fear the negative consequences of this takeover. We must support them and the government must support them. Against the giant Lufthansa, Belgium's shareholding is unfortunately very fragmented. Prime Minister, to reduce this imbalance between Lufthansa and Belgian shareholders, you have an important role to play. You need to unify these shareholders and all the Belgian parties so that they weigh heavier against Lufthansa. In negotiations, you must have strong requirements; you must obtain guarantees for employment in Belgium. The Belgian anchor of Brussels Airlines must be defended beak and nails! This is particularly true of the maintenance of long mails in Brussels. Thus, direct links between our capital and Africa, North America, Israel and soon India, are economic assets that must be preserved. Prime Minister, have you ever made contact with Lufthansa and the German government? Have they ever told you about their intentions for the future of Brussels Airlines? I ask you to commit yourself to Parliament in favour of employment, economic activity and the diplomatic consequences of this decision. Will you appoint a negotiator who will represent the Belgian authorities and all the shareholders to defend the interests of Belgium and our capital? Can you, Prime Minister, assure us that you will negotiate with Lufthansa to maintain employment, but also the Belgian anchoring of Brussels Airlines? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u53	Mr President, Prime Minister, the Supervisory Board of the Lufthansa Group, which currently owns 45% of SN Airholding, has just endorsed the decision to acquire the entire Brussels Airlines company. This decision thus paves the way for negotiations between the German company and Belgian shareholders, including public services such as the Brussels SRIB and the Walloon SIRW. The start of the negotiations would therefore be expected from October, but it would appear that at this stage some Belgian shareholders are opposed to the terms of the acquisition, in particular because of the purchase price deemed too low. This buy-back announcement obviously raises many questions. While it is essential that a balanced agreement can be reached between the various parties, it is of course essential that guarantees can be given as to the maintenance of employment, the Belgian anchoring of the company and the activity in Brussels. And here it is the federal parliamentarian who speaks, but also, of course, the Brussels. Prime Minister, have you ever been able to contact Lufthansa's leadership? If so, have they ever been able to give you more details about the fate they wish to reserve for the Belgian company? Have there been any consultations with shareholders, and I am thinking in particular here of public, Brussels or Walloon shareholders? What came out of it? Finally, Prime Minister, can you confirm that the focus of your intervention will be on the preservation of employment, the Belgian and Brussels anchors, but also the maintenance of an operational centre in our country and its own activities? I am thinking of links to Africa, but also of its role in Europe. Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u54	Mr President, Prime Minister, yesterday we received the news that Lufthansa is buying Brussels Airlines for EUR 2.6 million. That's peanuts. As a home carrier, Brussels Airlines is an important signal and an important symbol for our country. It is also an important economic engine for the airport, as well as for the entire region. Now that Brussels Airlines is in German hands, a lot of questions are rightly asked. Is this the sale of Belgium? These questions come not only from entrepreneurs, from shareholders, but also from trade unions and staff. They have, of course, rightly expressed their concerns. Quid while maintaining employment? There are 3 400 people working directly at Brussels Airlines and then there are a lot of jobs in the region, thanks to Brussels Airlines. Quid while maintaining the name Brussels Airlines? Quid with a possible integration of Brussels Airlines into the low-cost Eurowings company? Quid with the airline's decision-making autonomy? There are many private companies active in and shareholder of Brussels Airlines, but there are also public shareholders, such as the Walloon Region and the Brussels Region. The Federal Participation Company also has an important role to play through the loan to Brussels Airlines. Prime Minister, I know that you have had talks with Lufthansa's CEO over the last few weeks and days. What did those conversations get you? Have you received any guarantees regarding the maintenance of employment? What strategy has the FPIM followed with regard to Brussels Airlines? Was there even a strategy? After all, in view of the trend and the amount ultimately to be paid by Lufthansa, I am asking myself this question. Finally, what margin does the federal government still have to make for a successful outcome in these talks?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that Parliament is discussing these two issues together. Indeed, they are intimately linked to the need to develop an investment strategy, to identify sectors for the future. Yesterday we had a consultation committee meeting, at which the principle of this pact was validated and the decision to continue work with the governments of the federated entities, both on governance and on the main axes of this pact. If there is no certainty, consensus is widely shared. Mobility, infrastructure, and therefore the airport strategy, are obviously key sectors for the future. Tragically, a few months ago, we felt at the economic level in Brussels, around Brussels and throughout the country, how much a strategy for airports, an ability to develop airlines are a major economic and job-creating challenge. Firstly, our strategy for investment in the future is crucial and urgent. I confirm once again that it is my role and my responsibility to do everything, together with the Länder, to achieve concrete results as soon as possible. This can play a positive role in job creation and growth. I am optimistic, in the sense that I believe that there can be a common political will for this. And that's important. Secondly, as regards your specific questions about Lufthansa and Brussels Airlines, an important decision was taken in the past, in 2008 and 2009. What we are reading today is not the result of a decision today or a few months ago, but of decisions in 2008 and 2009. What is the decision taken in 2008 and 2009? This is the rise in Lufthansa's capital. At that time, from the outset, it is decided that Lufthansa has what is called a call, a capacity to buy the rest of the shares. Two types of call are envisaged. A classic call, normal, and a call called "crisis", used according to the situation of SN Airlines. The situation of SN Airlines is healthy. This was underlined, important work has been done by staff and management to credify SN Airlines' ability to face certain challenges. The partnership with Lufthansa has been rather successful in recent years. For example, Lufthansa has helped to strengthen our marketing capacity in North America and Canada. Now comes an important moment: the call has been triggered. You mentioned it. My answer is clear: at the moment I think we have too few guarantees. It should be the intention to obtain more guarantees over the next few weeks. I agree with what you said. What are our priorities? Firstly, of course, the anchoring in our country, taking into account our expertise. For example, we have a lot of expertise in Africa and North America, which we must valorise. Secondly, employment and job creation and, thirdly, a decision-making centre in Belgium. This is indeed a delicate moment, because it will be important for our image, for the role of Brussels and of Belgium, but a delicate moment like this can also be an opportunity. After all, in the logic of cooperation with Lufthansa, there is also the possibility of strengthening the role of Brussels in a larger company. That is the approach I will support. I confirm that in recent months, since the beginning of this year, I have had many contacts with the management of SN Brussels Airlines and Lufthansa's management. The SFPI plays a role through beneficiary participations and loans that have been made, as you know. But it is my intention that the federal government should be invited to the negotiating table, because the issue is strategic and essential. I will not fail to inform Parliament on a regular basis of developments on this important issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u56	Mr President, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I would just like to clarify that I had tabled my question under the heading of the Investment Pact. The investment pact is, of course, a crucial instrument in socio-economic revival, and in that respect my question was also in line with the previous debate. SN Brussels Airlines was part of this. Prime Minister, you met with the Consultative Committee yesterday. The time has indeed come to get the noses of all governments in the same direction. We should be able to mobilise the savings capital by setting up investment vehicles that can also pass the test of Europe. I would just like to remind you that the European Commission, with Mr Juncker himself, has set up a fund precisely to invest in those sectors that Europe and our country need. These are investments in the energy and transport sectors and, of course, in the whole of the airport. The economic importance of Zaventem cannot be denied for our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u57	Mr Prime Minister, I actually had the impression that you repeated my question. It is indeed important to invest in infrastructure, but there must also be investment in people and in confidence. In the economy, it is very important that people believe you and that they have confidence. I am counting on you to sit around the table with Brussels Airlines and Lufthansa in order to obtain a number of tough safeguards in such a way that the company as a whole can make progress in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u58	Prime Minister, thank you for your different answers. Indeed, I have heard you say that we do not have enough guarantees. I share your point of view. You said you had several objectives, namely Belgian anchoring, employment and a decision-making centre in Belgium. We also share your view. You said you were going to invite yourself to the negotiating table. That's what you were asked to do. On the other hand, did you not have an interest in designating a strong personality that could lead this whole negotiation against this giant? You didn't answer me, but I guess it's still open. Finally, we must reject all fatalism and defend our national florets. I wish you all the courage to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u59	Prime Minister, thank you for your response and for the various commitments you have just made here. We will continue to be attentive to the development of this important issue. I repeat, for our group, employment, the preservation of Brussels Airlines' Belgian and Brussels anchors and the maintenance of an operational centre in our country are essential. We know, Prime Minister, that your government will be committed to defending them with determination.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u60	Prime Minister, I think it is important to obtain more guarantees on the modalities for completing this operation, including in order to secure jobs. Brussels Airlines is a strong brand and I believe that this strong brand should remain in the aviation sector. Ladies and gentlemen, we must be healthy chauvinistic in this story. Prime Minister, I hope that you will use all your weight in this dossier to bring this operation to a successful conclusion, in order to secure tens of thousands of jobs in the region around the airport. I would like to say this to Mr Dewael, who is no longer here. We say yes to a healthy investment climate in our country for foreign investors, but we must do so in all circumstances. The case file of the past few days, of which I will not mention the name, is an example in which foreign investors are told a rather confusing story. As regards the anchoring of Brussels Airlines in Brussels, I would like to conclude by saying that Secretary of State De Backer, then MEP, expressed his opposition to support for the airline Brussels Airlines.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u61	Prime Minister, Mr Franken likes to talk about him, unfortunately never in the right direction. Indeed, we have seen yet another slippage. It should be recalled that Mr. Francken, from the moment he took office, attended the one-hundredth anniversary of a former pro-Nazi activist and founder of the VMO, an extreme right-wing militia. Then it was discovered that he had declared in 2011 that he doubted the added value of Moroccan, Congolese or Algerian diasporas. It is also known that in 2007 he organized far-right meetings. Prime Minister, you have suffocated the case every time. The Secretary of State has consistently managed to make a quick apology. However, on 16 October 2014, in the plenary session of the House, he promised to perform his duties in the interests of all citizens of that country and with the utmost respect for everyone. Prime Minister, retweeting a video in which Mr. Franken shows himself expelling an African with the help of a suction cup, finding it very funny, is nothing respectful and contradicts his 2014 statements. Worse, it is unworthy of a Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, who must work calmly on his files, and even more so in the current migration and humanitarian context. Your reaction was to ask him to remove his tweet. This is very good, but Mr. Franken, while executing himself, still felt obliged to increase his price by accusing the opposition of instituting a trial of intent – without even considering it necessary to make a spontaneous and rapid apology to the people he might have injured or shocked. Prime Minister, today, what are you going to do with someone with oil in your government? Are you going to ask him to resign or are you going to stop or stop and will the incident be permanently closed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u62	Mr President, dear colleague, after watching this video, I can tell you that I find it absolutely not funny and absolutely not acceptable. What are the facts? There is an Internet user who makes videos and broadcasts them online in a context of parody and criticism of the action of the government, Theo Francken and other ministers. Theo Francken quickly explained himself. He considered that he had retweeted this video in a self-destruct approach, since he was criticized through a video. Noting an immediate controversy and a number of agitations about this subject, I asked him to remove this video, which he had done before I asked him to do. I also note, on the part of this Government, that we are fully engaged in the fight against all forms of racism and all forms of discrimination. We were together with Didier Reynders, Alexander De Croo and Theo Francken in New York in recent days to support, for example in the debate on refugees, the call for dignity. Belgium is one of the countries favorably marked for the way in which we have done the reception work of tens of thousands of refugees at the worst of the crisis. I also note that Theo Francken mobilized 24 hours a day at the height of the crisis, precisely to be in a position to offer a dignified reception to all refugees. I am extremely clear! I find this video unacceptable, it doesn't make me laugh. I told Theo Francken, I said it in front of this Parliament! This video was removed and it didn't originate from Theo Francken. Finally, I find – I am not the one who says – that the Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities, UNIA, questioned on the issue, considered that this video, which came from an Internet user and not from Theo Francken, was not contrary to the law on racism.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u63	Prime Minister, I am absolutely not satisfied with your answer. It is unacceptable for a Secretary of State or a Minister to behave in this way, even if it is a parody. This has nothing to do with it! (...): He has already made racist remarks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u64	You know very well that such a slippage, which would have taken place in another European country, would have been directly described as extreme right. When it comes to a member of your government, minimizing and apologizing are the only answers you are able to provide. At a time when racist speech is becoming more and more free, Prime Minister, both in the public sphere and in this Parliament, I expected much more courage on your part and a sense of responsibility!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u65	Mr Minister, this morning I read the newspaper, like most of my fellow Members. In De Standaard we took note of an interesting proposal from you. Its theme is very close to my heart. It is also in line with the issue of employment and the announced intention of an important company in Wallonia, Caterpillar, to close the doors. In the wake of this, the debate on the Renault Act, which regulates workers' rights in the event of such an intention, was also launched in Parliament. We had an interesting exchange of views on this matter in the Social Affairs Committee a while ago. At that time, I suggested that workers who had already found a job in anticipation of the social plan would not lose the benefits of the plan, so that they would really seize the opportunities for a new job. I was pleasantly surprised to read in the article that you are fond of that suggestion, because such a provision would be part of a draft that you sent to the Group of Ten. I saw that other suggestions, from other colleagues, have also been incorporated, suggestions that have to do with, among other things, the impact on subcontractors. In the case of major restructuring, such as that mentioned, there is indeed such an impact. Mr Minister, could you give a little more light to the content of the draft for my fellow Members in the hemisphere? What is your further working method? What's your timing? What consultations have you planned with the social partners and the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u66	Mr Lachaert, it is good that you read the newspaper, but of course I did not expect anything else. It is also good that you respond positively to the initiative I have taken. We are all affected by heavy restructuring, as with Caterpillar. If you have read the newspapers correctly, you know that, unfortunately, there are still a few in the pipeline. In any case, I have listened carefully to the proposals made by yourself and other fellow Members, both by the majority and by the opposition. Mr Lachaert, I have sent a letter to the Group of Ten. I can deliver that letter to Parliament. In that I announced my intention to draw up a draft with five points. Other points may be added. I will briefly go over the five points, because that is also important for Parliament. The first thing I am asking is for all governments and Parliament to be informed. After all, I have clearly understood from the chairman of the committee that Parliament also wants to be informed and that companies, within the framework of the Renault Act, want to be able to ask for text and explanations about an announced closure. That is also important, because it is in accordance with collective agreement No. 24 must also inform the works council. Secondly, I call for an impact analysis of the closure of subcontractors. I believe that the opposition also supports that. These direct consequences of a closure must be taken into account in the discussions under the Renault Act with the company that restructures or closes. Thirdly, I wish to strengthen and extend the role of the social mediator. Fourthly, I propose that we require the development of a social plan, as is the case in other countries. Fifth, and this is my answer to your suggestion, Mr Lachaert, I am introducing a legal guarantee that the social plan covers all workers, including those who would leave the company before the second stage. They should therefore also be granted the rights included in the social plan, with the exception of the right to outplacement, as this is no longer necessary. I have asked the Group of Ten to make a contribution to this. With this input and with the input of others, including from Parliament, I will draw up a draft and come to Parliament as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u67	Thank you, Minister, for your clarification. We shouldn't always believe what's in the papers. One tries to write the truth, but sometimes it still takes nuance. So you have written a letter with a number of suggestions. I'm glad to hear that. They also fit in with the debate we have had in committee. I would like to add one more point. In some restructurings, it is necessary that the procedure can be completed within a reasonable period of time. I would like to mention, for example, the case where one is almost bankrupt. If the procedure takes too long, it will only be possible to fall back on the EUR 25 000 of the closure fund. I think that is also a point of interest, but the Group of Ten knows the problem even better and will certainly take it with them. We will continue to follow up the dossier to ensure together that those affected by such a drastic decision are given the protection they deserve. We will be your partner in that debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u68	Mr President, Minister, it was quite a summer for human rights! It was a balloon summer. First freedom of speech went on the shovel, then freedom of religion went on the shovel. In any case, I am very pleased that the rector of the largest university in this country, at the opening of the academic year, has pierced a number of these balloons. Now it's late summer and apparently there are new balloons. After all, in the Committee on the Interior, you stated that in the case of ongoing crimes, I wonder if you are aware of how many ongoing crimes we have in our criminal justice system, a home can be entered without any intervention from a judge. The explanation you give is that this is an ongoing crime and therefore there is always catch in the act. I congratulate you on your innovative explanation. Innovative in the light of the inviolability of the home, which is enshrined in our Constitution. Particularly innovative in the light of the right to privacy, as provided for in Article 8 of the ECHR. Such an innovative fact that another member of the government pointed out in the Home Affairs Committee on 19 July 2016 that such an entry could not be possible. Apparently, this is either a forward-looking view or perhaps a retrograde view. You can choose. I have also noticed that Mrs Lanjri does not seem to agree with your interpretation, in which context she states that this goes against government agreements. I have three questions for you, Minister. First of all, could you explain your view? Secondly, is what you stated on 21 September 2016 a personal position or a government position? Thirdly, are there any agreements within the government on this? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u69	Mr President, Mr Vuye, I am sure you will refer to the answer I gave in the Committee on the Interior to a question from Mrs Lanjri. I should not repeat that answer here, because it is written in black and white in the integrated report. The answer is based on the interpretation used by the Federal Police Legal Service. That interpretation has never been questioned by anyone and has been used for a very long time. Neither a Minister of the Interior nor a Minister of Justice has ever asked any questions. The police have been using that interpretation for many years. I am, of course, not deaf to the debate that has been unwound following Mrs Lanjri's question. Since then, therefore, I have contacted Mr Geens to clarify the issue and to arrive at a correct and supported interpretation. This is a practice which has been in practice for many years and which we will now clarify legally.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u70	Minister, a practice that has been in place for many years? Apparently not on July 19th of this year, when another member of the government in the Home Affairs Committee confirmed that this could not be done. And what that other member of the government said, namely that a house can only be entered if someone is in need, if one gives voluntary access or if there is a search warrant, is correct. The Jambondoctrine, however, is wrong. I think you just don't know what catching in the act means. Caught in the act means that the crime is first established and then entered the house; not that the house is first entered and only then the crime is found. You say it's a unanimous doctrine, but that's not true. Read Chris Van den Wyngaert, read Frank Verbruggen, read Raf Verstraeten and read Paul Ponsaers. They all say that what you said on 21 September in the Committee on the Interior cannot be said. The Flemings demand a firm and efficient expulsion policy. However, that presupposes that you colour within the lines. If you are out of line, the expulsion policy will not be effective, because you will simply be recalled by the magistrates who will say that you are out of line, that you are outside the Constitution and outside the European Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u71	Minister, you know that I find the migration deal that the EU concluded with Turkey with the approval of this government to be bad and reprehensible. Bad because I think that the EU should not be blackmailed and reprehensible because a tyrant is rewarded with unlimited access to all European cities. Officially, Turkey must meet 72 conditions before that promised visa liberalisation is introduced. At the beginning of May I questioned the Prime Minister. Then he was willing to answer himself. Today, you must do so in his place. At that time 65 of the 72 conditions were fulfilled. Yesterday, the European Commission published a report showing that no progress has been made on the remaining seven conditions in recent months. The only appropriate conclusion would therefore be to abandon this idea of visa liberalisation or at least to postpone it again. However, the EU is doing the opposite, Minister, because I read that the European Commission writes that the EU and Turkey are going to work together to find practical solutions to meet legal and procedural changes. The aim, the European Commission writes, is to arrange visa-free travel for some 80 million Turks as soon as possible. Why is the EU suddenly in such a hurry to abolish the visa requirement for Turks, Minister? When I read what the European Commission is writing, I am shocked. This is another signal that the EU is ready to relax its own conditions. Schulz has already sent a first signal at the beginning of this month by saying that Turkish anti-terrorism legislation should not be a stumbling block to the abolition of visas. Hence my questions, Minister. What's the rush? Why a more flexible position? What are the practical solutions the EU is thinking of? Does this government agree to this course of action? Do you share Schulz's opinion or do you believe that, without practical solutions, these conditions must be met in full? Do you share the view of the Hungarian Prime Minister that, following the failed coup d'état, Erdogan's purification operations should make the abolition of the visa requirement absolutely impossible? I look forward to your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u72	Mr President, Mrs Pas, my answer can be very brief. There was indeed an agreement on 18 March 2016. There is now a state of affairs of the European Commission with seven points out of a total of 72 points that have not yet been properly implemented by Turkey. The European Commission will therefore continue its work with Turkey to find a solution to these seven points. The Belgian Government's position is very clear and clear. The agreement may be concluded once all the requirements have been met. Turkey should introduce legislative and administratively relevant initiatives. Mr Minister, I would just like to add that I would like to remind you that Belgium has called for the strengthening of the safeguard mechanism, so that visa liberalisation is suspended for countries that enjoy it, which is not the case for Turkey, if the requirements would not be met in the future. There are now discussions in the European Parliament on this issue. So we are still waiting for progress in Turkey on the seven points that have not been implemented so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u73	Mr President, Minister, you are not distancing yourself from the European Commission, which wants to interfere with the conditions. Do you realise that the abolition of the visa requirement, with which you agree in principle, has allowed some 80 million Turks to travel and reside freely and unhindered in the European Union, which has caused an asylum crisis in the past, when the visa requirement for a number of Balkan countries was abolished? Those Balkan countries did not agree with as many millions as the Turks are. There were not even millions of Kurds there who have a legitimate reason to flee their country. The fact that no progress has been made on any of the seven conditions after six months does not mean that the European Commission is now forced to interfere with these conditions. It was the ideal opportunity for you to put an end to the abolition of the visa requirement and the suicide pact with Erdogan. I trust that you will be right on the table in the European Union, that you will not admit anything on those seven conditions and that you will not go down the road of Schulz and the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of the words of our President, after the turbulent debate this afternoon: 'Democraticity is not only the right to speak, but also the duty to listen'. So let us apply that discipline occasionally, especially in the hemisphere. Mr Minister, my question concerns Syria. There has been a violent civil war there for four years. The images of the thousands of dead in Aleppo in Syria, in the severely punished Aleppo, leave no one untouched. Little kids are taken from under the rubble, sometimes alive, sometimes dead. Residents have nowhere to go. Aleppo's gonna die. As the father of six children, the footage of those children in Aleppo is killing me. The situation there is increasing apocalyptic proportions. Behind the unbearable rain of Russian bombardments lies a fairly complex wasp nest of various actors, each with its own interests. They each play their own role in that stratego game. For example, the metamorphosis of al-Nusra, which separates itself from Al-Qaeda, is actually only meant to strengthen its position in Syria. The so-called moderate rebels represent little and easily join Jabhat al-Nusra, which is no more or less than Al-Qaeda, as a wolf in sheepskin. Minister, we take note of the reaction of you and Minister De Croo, condemning the blind bombings of the Russian Air Force, asking you to monitor and monitor human rights violations and calling on you to stop the attacks, to allow humanitarian aid. Your plea to protect civilians is a priority. Minister, how do we determine with the government where we should support which actors now? We're military presence on the premises. How do we do it? That question is pertinent. What else can the government do? I refer to the rescue of 244 Christians from Aleppo last summer, something you realized together with Secretary of State Francken. Are there any other humanitarian rescue operations possible? I look forward to your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u75	Mr President, my colleague Luykx has, I think, drawn up the very alarming situation in Syria, particularly in Aleppo. Of course, Minister, the agreement reached in Geneva on 9 September between the United States and Russia has given rise to much hope for peace in this region. Unfortunately, this truce is very fragile. On the one hand, Russia denounces two hundred violations of this ceasefire. On the other hand, the United States admits that it mistakenly bombarded positions held by Damascus, particularly in Deir ez-Zor. The Syrian army, for its part, seeks to regain full control of the city of Aleppo, and refuses to allow humanitarian convoys to enter the areas occupied by the opponents. That raises a lot of questions, minister. Is there any idea of the number of civilians and opponents currently blocked in these areas of conflict? What is the actual proportion of the various humanitarian agencies? What is their task force? What is their ability to do their duty and support the pain that men, women and children are experiencing in this region? The American threat of freezing cooperation with Russia if it does not cease its bombardment is a particular challenge to us, as we still hope that these two countries will be able to resume dialogue in a reasonable manner, in the hope of continuing peacekeeping operations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u76	Mr President, Mr Luykx, the situation is currently incredibly dramatic, not only in Aleppo. What have we done? It's very important to say that. Firstly, we are part of a military coalition. Thanks to Parliament's agreement, it is now possible to be with our F-16s from Jordan not only in Iraq but also in Syria, for example in Raqqa. Secondly, we have also provided a great deal of humanitarian support in Syria whenever possible. It's not easy. We saw this on 19 September with the last convoys. We have also done so in Jordan, Lebanon and in other countries around Syria, such as Turkey. Thirdly, we have also taken a number of initiatives with regard to refugees. You recalled the operation with Secretary of State Francken last summer, where we saved 250 people from Aleppo. There was also a second surgery. I'm always willing to do more. Finally, on a humanitarian level, we have received many refugees in Belgium as a result of a number of decisions taken by the United Nations or the European Union. We have been looking for a political solution for more than five years. What more can we do? First of all, I will reply to Mrs Jadin who asked how many people are blocked and what more we can do for them? There are about 4.5 million people blocked in hard-to-reach areas, 1.5 million people in difficulty around Aleppo, west of the city, and 275,000 people blocked in the city's neighbourhoods. What we are looking for first is to increase access, humanitarian aid to these people. Together with my colleague Alexander De Croo I have asked if it is possible to get real access. We need to put more pressure on this. Secondly, the question arises as to whether a political solution is possible. Well, we will support all efforts in this regard. However, you have noticed that even the latest agreement between the United States and Russia is not working. There is, for the moment, no ceasefire that still stands; it was seen with the attack on Aleppo. There is no access to humanitarian convoys. The situation is really getting more and more complicated. What more can we do? I refer to what Mr Luykx said about monitoring. We must fight against impunity. We really need to remember that war crimes, crimes against humanity are being committed in Syria today. We must ensure that evidence can be found and that we announce that we are going to prosecute the perpetrators. It is a responsibility of our country, but also of the international community. The International Court of The Hague will have to deal with a number of cases. We need to gather evidence about this and be able to move towards prosecution. Crimes against humanity are not prescribed. As Mrs Jadin knows, we have worked in this Parliament on the Yezidis. We received Nadia Murad in this Parliament to discuss the Yezidis. We met her again in New York. We have to prove that we will not let these facts go without prosecution. We need to fight impunity. Beyond that, it must be said that it is for the Security Council to assume its responsibilities. We must continue to put pressure on the actors of the Security Council to finally find a solution. There is now a blockade between the United States and Russia. We saw this at the last meeting of the Security Council. However, as far as we are concerned, it is very important to support all those who want a political solution. I repeat that we have already done a great deal, in the humanitarian, military, refugee and also in order to find a political solution. Now we must fight against impunity. However, we must also use all possible means to reach a political solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u77	Minister, we are indeed involved in the field both in the military and in the humanitarian sphere. That is clearly how you outlined it. I appreciate your commitment to further monitor and monitor impunity in respect of human rights violations, so that human rights are monitored. I also appreciate your support for making your voice heard politically in all the existing Gremia. Finally, here's what I'm gonna say. During the summer I met a group of people from Aleppo in Diest. After that meeting, I didn't realize until those people were saved and here, what effect this government has caused, what you've done. That has inspired me to retable a resolution. This is a resolution by the opposition, which you also supported. That resolution aims to protect religious minorities in the Middle East and also in Africa. I hope that what inspired us at the time and inspired us today can once again lead to House-wide support.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u78	Minister, thank you very much for your answers. Of course, I'm joining you in these multiple battles. Military solutions must be found. Above all, decisions must be taken from a humanitarian point of view. Mr Luykx was talking about young Syrians he met – in his region, I suppose. I met some of them, too. In my view, the universal language of human rights is something that is understood when people are deprived of them. It is important that we continue to fight for these people and to preserve our democratic values and rigour.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u79	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u80	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 28 September 2016, I propose that you enter the following interviews and questions on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session after the vote on the name: - the interplay between Mrs Véronique Caprasse and the Minister for Social Affairs and Health on "RIZIV numbers and the consequences of the judgment of the Council of State and of the negative alignment" (No. 165); - the interplay between Mrs Laurette Onkelinx and the Minister for Social Affairs and Health on "the distribution key for RIZIV quotas" (No. 167); - the interplay of Mrs Catherine Fonck with the Minister for Social Affairs and Health on "RIZIV numbers" (No. 168); - the interplay between Mrs Barbara Pas and the Minister for Social Affairs and Health on 'doctoral quotas' (No. 173); - the interplay of Mrs Muriel Gerkens with the Minister for Social Affairs and Health on "RIZIV quotas for medical students" (No. 174); - the interplay between Mr Marco Van Hees and the Minister for Social Affairs and Health on "RIZIV quotas for medical students" (No. 175); - Mrs Valerie Van Peel's question to the Minister for Social Affairs and Health on 'the agreement on medical quotas' (No. 13816); - Mr Damien Thiéry's question to the Minister for Social Affairs and Health on 'the allocation of RIZIV numbers' (No. 13819); - Mrs Nathalie Muylle's question to the Minister for Social Affairs and Health on medical quotas (No. 13902). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 28 September 2016, I propose that you include the following questions and questions in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session after the roll-call vote: - the inquiry by Mrs Véronique Caprasse to the Minister for Social Affairs and Public Health on "INAMI Numbers – the consequences of the Council of State's judgment and the negative smoothing" (No 165); - the inquiry by Mrs Laurette Onkelinx to the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health on "the key to the allocation of INAMI quotas" (No 167); - the inquiry of Mrs Catherine Fonck to the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health on "INAMI numbers" (No 168); - the inquiry by Mrs Barbara Pas to the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health on "the quotas of doctors" (No 173); - the inquiry by Mrs Muriel Gerkens to the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health on "Inami quotas for medical students" (No 174); - the inquiry by Mr Marco Van Hees to the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health on "Inami quotas for medical students" (No. 175); - the question of Mrs Valerie Van Peel to the Minister for Social Affairs and Public Health on the "Agreement on Medical Quotas" (No 13816); - Mr Damien Thiéry's question to the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health on "the allocation of INAMI numbers" (No 13819); - the question of Mrs Nathalie Muylle to the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health on "Medical quotas" (No 13902). Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u81	By letter dated 19 September 2016, the Brussels-Capital Parliament informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of 19 September 2016, the Parliament of the Brussels-Capital Region announced that it had constituted itself at its meeting today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u82	By letter dated 20 September 2016, the United Assembly of the Joint Community Committee informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of 20 September 2016, the Assembly meeting of the Joint Community Commission announced that it had constituted itself at its meeting today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u83	By letter dated 21 September 2016, the Parliament of the German-speaking Community informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at its meeting on 19 September 2016. By message of 21 September 2016, the Parliament of the German-speaking Community announced that it had constituted itself at its meeting on 19 September 2016. Mit Schreiben vom 21. September 2016 teilt das Parlament der Deutschsprachigen Gemeinschaft mit, dass es sich in signaler Sitzung vom 19. September 2016 konstituiert hat.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u84	By letter dated 21 September 2016, the Council of the Flemish Community Commission informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of September 21, 2016, the Raad van de Vlaamse Gemeenschapscommissie announced that it had formed in its session today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u85	By letter of 22 September 2016, the Parliament of the French Community informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of 22 September 2016, the Parliament of the French Community announced that it had constituted itself at its sitting today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u86	The N-VA Group has given me the candidacy of Mr Peter De Roover as an effective member of the Consultative Interparliamentary Benelux Council. The N-VA Group has sent me Mr Peter De Roover's candidacy as an effective member of the Benelux Interparliamentary Consultative Council. Since there are no other applications, there should be no vote under Rule 157 (6) of the Rules of Procedure and I declare Mr Peter De Roover to be an effective member of the Interparliamentary Consultative Council of the Benelux countries. Since there are no other candidates, there is no vote, in accordance with Rule 157(6) of the Rules of Procedure, and I declare Mr Peter De Roover elected as an effective member of the Benelux Inter-Parliamentary Consultative Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u87	At the request of the Chairman of the Temporary Committee on Counter-Terrorism, I propose that you refer the following proposals to the Temporary Committee on Counter-Terrorism, for advice, in order to add them to the proposal (Mr Raf Terwingen, Mr Hendrik Vuye, Mr Denis Ducarme and Mr Patrick Dewael) to revise Article 12 of the Constitution, in order to allow a period of arrest of seventy-two hours for certain crimes, No. 1529/1: - the proposal (Mr Stefaan Van Hecke, Mr Gilles Vanden Burre, Mr Jean-Marc Nollet and Mr Marcel Cheron and Mrs Muriel Gerkens, Mrs Anne Dedry and Mrs Evita Willaert) to revise Article 12 of the Constitution in order to allow an extension of the time limit for arrest to 48 hours, No. 1712/1; - the proposal (Mr Hans Bonte) for a revision of Article 12, third paragraph, of the Constitution as regards the extension of the time limit for arrest to 48 hours, No. 1713/1; - the proposal (Mrs Catherine Fonck and Mr Christian Brotcorne and Mr Georges Dallemagne) to revise Article 12, third paragraph, of the Constitution, No. 1741/1. At the request of the Chairman of the Temporary Committee on the Fight against Terrorism, I propose that you refer the following proposals to the Temporary Committee on the Fight against Terrorism for opinion in order to attach them to the proposal (MM. Raf Terwingen, Hendrik Vuye, Denis Ducrame and Patrick Dewael) to review Article 12 of the Constitution with a view to allowing for certain offences a period of arrest of seventy-two hours, No. 1529/1: - the proposal (Mrs. Stefaan Van Hecke, Gilles Vanden Burre, Jean-Marc Nollet and Marcel Cheron and Mrs. Muriel Gerkens, Anne Dedry and Evita Willaert) to revise Article 12 of the Constitution with a view to allowing the extension of the period of arrest to 48 hours, No. 1712/1; - the proposal (Mr Hans Bonte) to revise Article 12, paragraph 3, of the Constitution with a view to extending the period of arrest to 48 hours, No. 1713/1; - proposal (Ms Catherine Fonck and MM. Christian Brotcorne and Georges Dallemagne) to review article 12, paragraph 3, of the Constitution, No. 1741/1. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u88	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I consider it accepted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of yesterday's Conference of Presidents, I also propose the legislative proposal (Mrs Jean-Marc Nollet and Mr Kristof Calvo) amending the law of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market with a view to improving electricity demand flexibility, No. 2054/1, to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u89	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 28 September 2016, I also propose that you take into consideration the bill (MM. Jean-Marc Nollet and Kristof Calvo) amending the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market, with a view to enhancing the flexibility of electricity demand, No 2054/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u90	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I also propose the legislative proposal (Mrs Peter De Roover, Mr Denis Ducarme, Mr Servais Verherstraeten and Mr Patrick Dewael) amending the Act of 20 July 1990 on provisional detention, No. 2057/1, to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u91	I also propose that you take into consideration the bill (MM. Peter De Roover, Denis Ducrame, Servais Verherstraeten and Patrick Dewael) amending the Act of 20 July 1990 on preventive detention, No. 2057/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u92	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u93	The Government has requested urgent treatment pursuant to Article 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law further transposing Directive 2010/64/EU on the right to interpretation and translation in criminal proceedings and Directive 2012/29/EU laying down minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of criminal offences, and replacing Framework Decision 2001/220/JHA, No. 2029/1. The Government requested urgency in accordance with Article 51 of the Regulation when introducing the draft law supplementing the transposition of Directive 2010/64/EU on the law of interpretation and translation in criminal proceedings and Directive 2012/29/EU laying down minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime and replacing Council Framework Decision 2001/220/JHA, No 2029/1. I would suggest that, as usual, we should speak out about that question when we sit down and stand up. I propose that we take a decision on this request. It is equally common for the government to justify its request.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u94	Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Minister of Justice. The Salduz Bis Directive has a direct impact on criminal proceedings and the rights of defence. It is therefore absolutely necessary to transpose the Directive into Belgian law before its entry into force on 27 November 2016. There is also a need to adapt some practical matters on the ground. The College of Attorneys General and the police are therefore asking parties to have a final legislative text in place in good time. Secondly, the directive on the right to translation and interpretation of criminal proceedings had to be transposed into Belgian law by 16 November 2015. The Directive is also partially transposed through the second draft law on interrogation in criminal matters, which also gives the persons to be interviewed the right to a translation and an interpreter. As both drafts are linked, it is necessary to deal with both drafts together in the Justice Commission as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u95	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we give our opinion on urgency in the usual way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u96	Mr President, I would like to ask the urgency of legislative proposal No. 2036, which is a bill from Mrs Willaert, Mr Gilkinet, myself and Mr Nollet. The bill was considered by the Chamber last week. The aim is to provide for parliamentary consultation in the event of collective redundancies. Unfortunately, we have been able to experience such incidents in recent weeks. There was a total outrage at the Caterpillar management's refusal to go down to the Chamber of Representatives. Our bill responds to that refusal. I am asking for urgency, also because I note that parliamentary support for such an idea is increasing. Like other Members, I have been able to take note of a proposal by Mr De Roover, Mr Ducarme, Mr Verherstraeten and Mr Dewael, which sets out a similar ambition. The urgency of our legislative proposal, and hopefully that of the majority, could lead us as a Parliament to move quickly to make it clear that a word of explanation for the parliament is appropriate in such cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, for the record, if you are looking, this was on our list last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u98	It was considered last week. Today there is a similar proposal. We propose that we at least treat it as a matter of urgency. It would then seem logical to do so for both and to start discussions quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u99	Mr President, it is true that a legislative proposal has also been tabled by the majority, which has been considered (No. 2049). As chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, I would like to propose to my fellow Members next week that both legislative proposals be submitted in the course of the work. You have also heard that the Minister intends to come to the committee with a bill on this subject, the Renault Act. I therefore propose that we first look collectively at the regulation of the work, with majority and opposition, and then consider whether or not there should be urgency. I therefore propose not to grant urgency at the moment, but to consider it if the arrangements for the work do not produce any results.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u100	Mr Calvo, can you comment on the proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u101	Mr President, given the commitment of the chairman of the committee, I do not need to vote on the urgency. The most important thing is that we can start the debates quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u102	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u103	The Government also requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law on certain rights of persons being questioned was submitted, No. 2030/1. The government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the bill on certain rights of persons under interrogation, No. 2030/1. This request is decided by sitting and raised, but first the motivation of the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u104	Mr President, I have only received a request from Minister None for the previous two drafts, and not from anyone else.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u105	It was indeed about two texts. The urgency of a draft law on certain rights of persons being questioned has also been called for. I thought you had spoken out on these two European texts. Unless I have listened poorly and you have also requested urgency for the second text?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u106	Mr President, the honourable Members who have listened very well to the Minister for Health have heard that the Minister has given reasons for the two proposals. I therefore believe that the necessary explanations have been given.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u107	Mr President, I can confirm from the opposition that the Minister has given the reasons for the two drafts. Apparently, no one heard that, but I did. The justification is given.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u108	Thank you, Mr Van Hecke. So, ladies and gentlemen, we can take a decision on the requests for urgent procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u109	Mrs. Emma De Prins, Clerk of our Assembly, will retire on October 1. Dear Mrs. De Prins, Dismissed in law from the Free University of Brussels, you entered into service at the Secretariat of the Commissions, as attaché, on 1 October 1976, at a time when ordinary legislative work was constantly intensifying. At that time, there were only 14 women in our assembly! There are now 58 of them, whose presence is now essential, which must certainly please you in view of the fact that you are the first woman to have served as Clerk of the House. [[Applause]] In addition to the Prosecution Commission, you will be responsible for the administrative secretariat of the Justice Committee, a matter that will also keep you at your heart throughout your career. This is where you learn how to groom legislation, how to optimize collaboration with departmental offices, and how to print and distribute parliamentary documents. In 1988 you will be promoted to Head of Division at the Commissions Department, and on 1 January 1995 you will be appointed Director of the Legislative Secretariat. With all your own care and accuracy, prepare the plenary sessions optimally and ensure that the legislative proposals and drafts are printed and distributed, and that the written questions are processed. You will therefore come to the fore if you become Deputy Griffin on 1 January 2004. You are committed to making the best possible use of all the legislative services and the importance of their work. You are appointed Clerk of the House from October 15, 2009. In this delicate and versatile function, which involves a permanent mission of advice and advice of the President, you demonstrate a perfect knowledge of all the workings of our assembly and of the rules governing it. Called upon to fill in the decisions of the Conference of Presidents and the Bureau, you participate with vigilance and competence in the preparation of their deliberations. As one of your predecessors wrote, the House is an institution whose Bureau is conscious and whose clerk is the memory, organized memory and ordering. You face, realistically, the ever-increasing needs and demands of parliamentary life. Thus, with the assistance of the Public and International Relations department, which is under your direct authority, you are careful to develop the information of the press and the public about our work and the activities of our assembly in general. You pay a great deal of attention to the ICT that our Assembly needs, and strengthen and modernise the operational services of the Chamber, which assist us efficiently and without which we could never do our job. The monitoring of the European Union's activities is also a major concern of the Chamber. The preparation and conduct of parliamentary activities within the framework of the Belgian EU Presidency in 2010 is closely following you, and you have an eye for strengthening parliamentary control over the European decision-making process. Dear Mrs. De Prins, You have dedicated yourself, for a 40-year career, with untiring dedication and unwavering readiness to carry out your duties. We are deeply grateful for that. You have assumed with conscience the burdens and responsibilities of your high office. You have put at the service of the House, with an extraordinary sense of duty, your working strength and your in-depth knowledge of the functioning of a legislative assembly. I am sure I speak on behalf of the staff when I say that with human problems you also found an understanding ear. Even the most difficult problems you could solve with calmness, tact and discretion, always calm and with immense patience. Dear Mrs. De Prins, You will now have more time to devote to yourself as well as to the reading and theatre you are an enlightened amateur. The new stage of life that you will start will certainly be different, but I am sure that it will always be as active and enriching. On behalf of our assembly, thank you wholeheartedly and wish you a very happy retreat. Mrs De Prins, let me add on my own behalf that I have enjoyed working with you for the last two years. You told me that the Flemings on the street recognize you from on television. They recognize you as the lady next to the president. Until two years ago, I also knew you only as an icon on television. That changed after a turbulent start. I've had a lot of time to talk to you. We've been thinking together, and we've laughed a lot together. Sometimes it's fun here, even if it's not meant to be. One more thing. Whatever your opinions or beliefs may be, they never prevented you from being available with advice and deed, and how! I know that all my predecessors will be in complete agreement on that point. Mrs De Prins, I asked you a few weeks ago what we could do at your farewell, and then your answer was: 'Not too much and make it short'. From now on, I will. I will say three more words: their grand merci.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u110	It is with great emotion that I take the floor, Madam Registrar, to say goodbye. And when I'm in emotion, I prepare my speech even more precisely than usual. So I've been thinking, researching in every direction, interviewing colleagues who know you better than I do because of their careers. The answers obtained during this process lead me to describe you with these three key words: discretion, uprightness and availability, Mrs De Prins in 3D in a way! Discretion first. We all know the clerk, but who knows Emma De Prins? Who knows what she's doing during her lost hours? Not a lot of people! This discretion, ma'am, you are also implementing it in the exercise of your function. You are always there, present and benevolent, but still in retreat. You hate being in the spotlight. I'm sorry about this session, by the way! You prefer your place in the shadows. But since you've been on the perch with the president, you've been playing a protective role for us, sometimes a supervisory role. Then righteousness. The Rules of the House are your Bible. You apply it in the same way for all and in every situation, which is worth the respect of all. You are always driven by a ferocious desire to protect and enforce the prerogatives of parliament; and it is in our eyes more than precious. It is absolutely necessary that the institution be able to count on women of your own size, on high-ranking officials with such competence and a sense of State, to protect itself from the ambitions of setting foot, of circumventions that could weaken the very heart of our democracy. Finally, your availability, high working capacity and efficiency. Mrs De Prins is always there throughout the day, both in plenary and in committee, to check that everything is going well in her house. We can thank this majority for allowing you to show us the extent of your talents. Let us acknowledge, ladies and gentlemen, that the working conditions imposed on Parliament, especially towards the end of the session, have required control and competence of the services. Madam, you were the conductor, the quiet force that allowed the work to be completed without incident. This is the first time, as the President said, that this position has been assigned to a woman. The first time! In this regard, let me tell you that the way you have invested this mission turns you into a model for all those women who need guides like you. Thank you, ma'am. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u111	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Defence Committee of 21 September 2016. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the National Defence Commission on September 21, 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 161/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Peter Buysrogge and Mr Damien Thiéry. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 161/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Peter Buysrogge and Damien Thiéry. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? You have two minutes to give your explanation of vote, Mrs Pas.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u112	Mr President, you and others are very pleased to hear that from this Parliamentary year on from September onwards there will be a lot of hard work here. I have to say, however, that without the Flemish Interest Opposition, there would not even have been a roll-call vote on the agenda in September. What's it about? It is about something that concerns all of you, especially the language balance in the army. I know that my fellow Members are very concerned about this with regard to the French speakers and the higher frameworks. A real working group was set up for this in the previous legislature, with a report of no less than 217 pages. Even more strikingly, that did not come up at all. The language imbalance is at the lower degrees. There the differences are much greater, but that is to the detriment of the Dutch speakers. I questioned the Minister about this. I asked him the recent figures, and he himself admitted that the problem is still the same, that there is no improvement in that regard. In order to support the Minister, I have tabled a motion of recommendation asking for measures to at least eliminate that linguistic imbalance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u113	Mrs Pas's starting point in committee was wrong. She said the situation is getting worse. The Minister did say that there was a status quo and that the status of the officers and officers remained the same. The Minister has also committed himself to making additional efforts in the field of recruitment in Flanders. That is why our group will support the simple motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u114	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u115	Mrs Pas, you have already given your explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u116	Mr President, this is not an explanation of vote. I ask for the floor for a personal statement. Mr Buysrogge puts words in my mouth that I have not spoken.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u117	It's been noted. Is anyone else asking for an explanation of vote? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u118	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 1) Yes 86 Yes No [[47]] No. Abstentions 0 Abstentions Total 133 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u119	Mrs. De Prins, this was your last vote. Next week, the deputy griffin will be in your place. I would like to thank you and wish the deputy griffin a successful course.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u120	Mr President, Madam Minister, following the ruling of the Council of State of 26 July 2016, suspending the execution of the ranking of the medical competition based on the new selection system set up in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, students who passed 45 credits in June without being ranked in useful order during the contest and students in the second session are in the most complete blur. The Conseil d'État invalidated the quota of 605 French-speaking students who were allowed to move to the second LAC, because this figure is not based on sufficiently timely and accurate data. At the end of June, 1,244 medical and dentistry students presented the competition, 787 of which passed in the first session; 255 students passed their year in June but not in the competition. When they came to your office, your office stated that it was not subject to the judgment of the Council of State. However, this judgment explicitly mentions the fact that quotas are not based on objective elements. And for that reason, should we still recall that quotas were imposed in a tote law in 1995 as a response to the so-called unjustified transfer of health expenditure between Flanders and Wallonia? The decision of the Conseil d'État No 235.618 of 12 August 2016, which thus ordered the suspension of the execution of the ranking of the medical bachelor's competition, academic year 2015-2016, organised by the University of Liège, made it very clear in its recitals that: "the situation which the royal judgment of 30 August 2015 is intended to govern, namely the planning of the medical offer, taking into account the health needs of the population and the means which the public authorities want to devote to it, is not established". The approach has never been objective but always symbolic at Community level. Finally, we have a cadastre which has been the subject of considerable work on the part of the Medical Supply Planning Committee. However, the necessary conclusions are not appropriate in the north of the country. This cadastre confirms the risk of a shortage of doctors in the south, so much so that the key to the distribution of INAMI numbers in favour of Francophones should be reviewed. The Medical Supply Planning Committee recommended replacing the current 60% key for the Flemish Community and 40% for the Wallonia-Brussels Federation with a 56.5 to 43.5 key. Las and against all odds, you decided to keep the key 60-40. In doing so, you despise the Planning Committee and give in to the most intransigent sirens in your Community. You said in a great French weekly, about three weeks ago, you had the solution. So I guess I didn't really tell the truth. In addition, the profession of general practitioner is now classified, for the first time in five years, in occupations in need in Wallonia. It is therefore public health that is at risk and your responsibility is engaged. To impose a negative smoothing in order to catch up with an unsubstantiated standard in a context of proven shortage does not seem to me to be responsible. In addition, removing 2,185 graduate students by 2021 would threaten the survival of universities. On the basis of an analysis by the Interuniversity Committee of Medical Students, CIUM-UNECOF believes that one or more universities should close their doors if negative smoothing was imposed. According to future calculations, UMONS will only host 32 medical students, ULB 55, ULG 61, University of Namur 64 and UCL 78. I would point out that these figures were calculated on the basis of a smoothing in seven years, and on the basis of the new allocation key advocated by the experts. So they are probably already out of date, given the latest political twists on the file. Romania has understood the absurdity of Belgian policy. Several Romanian universities have decided to attract victims of selection practiced in Belgium. Medicine is taught in French and leads to a European diploma which offers the guarantee of obtaining an INAMI number. In other words, students whose parents can finance studies in Romania are privileged over those who remain in Belgium and who are severely selected, even in times of shortage. It is in Romania that you create jobs in faculties, while because of a policy based solely on community symbolism, our French-speaking universities will be deserted. Minister, this surreal situation leads me to ask you the following questions. What official response have you given or will you give to the students who have come to express their concerns to your firm? How do you analyze the ruling of the Council of State on the responsibility of the federal that imposed standards on no objective basis? What follow-up are you going to give him? Do you not fear legal uncertainty as a result of your decision not to take into account the cadastre and maintain a key that is not based on objective data, as the Council of State has already taken into account? How do you react to the keys advanced by the Interuniversity Committee of Medical Students (ICUM)? Will you maintain a negative smoothing? If so, in what manner? How can you justify in detail the maintenance of the 60/40 allocation key of the INAMI numbers, in disregard of the opinion of the Planning Commission? In advance, Madam Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, health is not managed in the same way as another department. A minister has responsibility for the health of the entire population and, according to decisions, the government has a direct influence on the lives of millions of people – sometimes even on the deaths of some of them. The number of doctors and their qualities are of decisive importance in this regard. In the 1990s, in Belgium - as in France, the Netherlands or Germany - it was believed on the basis of expert analyses that we were going to have a plethora of doctors. A medical planning system was then developed, with a quota of INAMI numbers distributed. Since those years, it has been found that the situation has changed dramatically and that the danger is rather due to a shortage of doctors. In 2012, for example, INAMI called the alarm: "Warning, we are going to experience a serious shortage of general practitioners", for example. Among the reasons, INAMI quotes: "The ageing of the contingent of active doctors, the feminization of the profession, the desire to reduce working time, the difficulty of taking on often impossible schedules for specialists who must be available for guards." In other countries, such as France, the Netherlands with the same findings, there has been a change of policy and a further increase in student influx. In Belgium, unfortunately, this is more complicated because the Community is involved. Nevertheless, under the impetus of the Planning Committee and some of the ministers who preceded you, the lines were moved: a significant increase in the quotas of doctors, the development of a smoothing system, a minimum number of doctors per specialisation in shortage, the launch of the cadastre. Secondly, measures were taken to support doctors, Fonds Impulseo, revalorisation of fees, No. 1733 for custody. I'm going through with some of the best. Despite all this, the situation remains critical. The Planning Committee then makes an excellent proposal: full free access for specialisations in need, such as general practitioners and quotas for others. Unfortunately, community poison goes through this and Flanders screams at wolves! The Planning Commission, with Francophones and Dutch speakers, does not disarm. It proposes a further increase in physician quotas, but in view of the increasing danger of shortages in certain regions, in Wallonia in particular, the Commission wants to deviate from the theoretical proportions of percentage defined between French and Dutch speakers and increase the number of doctors, where this is necessary for the health of the population. What have we learned? That the government disavowed the commission and denied the need for Francophones, that it chose to make the community on the back of Francophones, that the MR was not able to oppose the N-VA and that you did not put health above community issues. I would therefore like you to explain here about this choice which I consider totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u122	Mr President, Madam Minister, I would first like to dwell on the last four rounds of the very bad saga of medical and dental students and graduates. First, the round of Council of State judgments in July and August. I would not dare to quote you and quote from those judgments of the Council of State! On the other hand, if I sum up, they're very clear. These judgments directly and clearly target your royal decree, the royal decree of this government of 30 August 2015, saying that the legal bases are illegal, that your royal decree is based on a quota decided arbitrarily. I'm not saying it, it's the decisions of the Council of State. These judgments are implacable and the Council of State considers that the number of doctors at the end of 2021 decided by your government is done in a purely illegal manner. Round two. The Planning Commission has done impressive work, scientific work. It is not I who say it, it is you, Madam Minister, and I agree with you. This objective work takes into account the reality on the ground. Those who went up to the rostrum before me mentioned some elements, in terms of actual practice. One issue is related to the age pyramid, as we know. Much older studies exist. Professor Deliège, in particular, of the Catholic University of Leuven, had demonstrated this in a very clear way. Feminization should also be taken into account. So this is a cadastre of objective data that measures the present force in the presence and the force in the presence that will be indispensable tomorrow. This commission also confirms shortages, especially among general practitioners, but also among specialist doctors. Third round. Your statements, and right after your statements, those of the MR, then the purely political decisions of your government. You said to Parliament and the press that you had committed yourself to respecting the work of the Planning Committee. And the government's decision is to simply sweep away all this work of the Planning Commission. What an insult to all those who have invested in this committee and have done a particularly impressive job! Round four. So now, excuse me, but this is really "fucking", excuse me for the expression, the students and the graduates concerned. People do not say the same thing in this government, and I am targeting you as the minister responsible, but I am also targeting the Prime Minister's Office and Deputy Prime Minister MR. Quotas first. The quota was swept by 60 and 40 per cent, and the Commission's planned numbers, namely 745 Dutch-speaking doctors in 2022, and 575 French-speaking doctors, were swept. You decide a reduced quota: 56.5% for the North, 43.5% for Francophones. The MR says that there is no problem, that all students who are currently studying and who will be graduating tomorrow will all have an INAMI number. We repeat this to all the radios. And then I can hear you, Madam Minister. So we're wondering if you're part of the same government. "No!", Say, "No way! Only those who will be in the final year (who thus return in the fourth year of master's degree) will have an INAMI number on their way out". Excuse me, but it's totally wrong! To say one thing and its opposite in terms of the Community to which we are speaking, when it comes to government decisions, it is totally indecent. Did you go to see for a second the reality of the students, whether they are in the first year of bachelor's degree or in the third, fourth, fifth, sixth or seventh year? In a few months, they will have to prepare their competition and choose general medicine or a specialty. Have you seen their reality? Can you imagine what they should feel when they don't tell each other the same thing? The president of the MR even had the nerve, Mr. President, to say that in the background, Francophones were going to have more. Excuse me, just count. When the Planning Commission provides for 575 and 528, that's no more, that's less. Minister, there are two major issues: the reality of students, but also the future of health care. Why did you sweep the opinion of the Planning Commission with a back of your arms, even though you had committed on the contrary? What is the true version of the government, since according to your speech, that of the N-VA or that of the MR, it is clearly not the same thing decided by the government? Why not take advantage of the decisions of the courts in the light of the decisions of the Council of State, and finally get out from the top in this case? Meet with the Communities and find an agreement that could be based on a tripod: one, guarantee an INAMI number for doctors and dentists who have graduated; two, find a formula for a similar entry examination in the north and south of the country. I heard that Minister Crevits was open to this possibility, and I think it is a good solution. This would enable us to emerge from this ongoing conflict. And three, look again at the question of the Europeans who they, get an INAMI number as soon as they arrive in Belgium. Because, in essence, the policy you decide is to favour foreigners rather than our own Belgian graduate students. This is totally unacceptable. Minister, I'm waiting for your answers. Most importantly, students and young graduates are waiting for the responses of the government as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u123	Mr President, Minister, you have inherited a dragon from a file, with an eventful history. I will not repeat that history in detail here. You know as well as I do that Flanders introduced the numerus clausus in the 1990s and Wallonia did not, and that there are now too many French-speaking doctors, more French-speaking doctors than there are available RIZIV numbers. Now I hear Mrs Onkelinx and Mrs Fonck blame you for the fact that there are no RIZIV numbers available for the students, who have all started the studies without any restrictions. Of course, that's not your fault. Had they acted as they should have acted and had they imposed a restriction in 1998, as in Flanders, there was not even a problem now. You have made a compromise in this government in order to get this highly sensitive dossier in order. You reached an agreement in the federal government on these medical quotas in 2022. In six years, 1 320 doctors are allowed to graduate, 792 in Flanders and 528 in Wallonia. It is to your credit that you have deviated from your original thinking and that you are right to maintain that 60/40 ratio. I hear the previous speakers say that this 60/40 ratio is unfair. It would only be unfair to deviate from it. That would be unfair to all the Flemish students who were forced to abandon their desire to start medical studies. In your compromise, the French speakers are still rewarded not to honour agreements, because you are willing to give the 1 300 general practitioners who have a RIZIV approval number for French speaking Belgium in surplus. These additional quantities would logically be deducted from the French quota over the next few years. The implementation of this scheme is linked to the introduction of an entry test for the beginning of the first year of medicine in the French Community. That is why the government is asking for no more than the 1998 agreement to be implemented. The Federal Government has therefore asked the French Community to adopt a decree in this respect before the royal decision you have prepared is given a second reading. Now it's up to the Council of State for advice. Madam Minister, I am still not clear on a number of issues. I read in certain reports that you have yet to begin your discussions with fellow Members of the European Communities. In other reports I read that there would already be concrete agreements. I would have liked some clarification from you on that today. When I hear Minister Marcourt at work, I can honestly no longer make sense of it. In the media, he stated that he was personally opposed to this 60/40 ratio, whereas on 22 September last week, at the meeting of the French Community, he stated that he would agree to an entry test at the beginning of the first year, and that he would not therefore allow it to depend on a change in that 60/40 ratio. I would therefore like to know whether you have an agreement with the French Community. Will there be an entrance exam, a selection test, at the beginning of the first year? When will this arrangement start? What about the medical students who want to start this academic year? A second specific question for you, Madam Secretary. What will you do if there is no agreement? If that decree has not been passed by now, will you really put it back on the table of the federal government? Do you have an agreement from the French Community on that 60/40 key? When I hear the Members of this House fuliminate, I am a little afraid of that. Will all French-speaking students currently doing these studies receive a RIZIV number, or is that only insured for the senior students? What about the so-called negative lissage? The French Community has given too many RIZIV numbers in the past and has even distributed future RIZIV numbers. How exactly will you compensate for that? Will you allow fewer students in the future? When will that compensation start? Is it fully compensated for too much that has been allocated in the past? What guarantees are there in that respect? How does that work? Finally, can you assure me that the Royal Decree, which was approved by the Council of Ministers at first reading, was sufficiently tested to pass the judgment of the Council of State? Of course, the opinion of the Council of State remains to be seen. How will you react if the Council of State refuses to accept the proposed distribution key? Do you have a plan b for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u124	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u125	Yes, Mr.Verherstraeten, I am a Francophone parliamentarian and I am familiar with Francophone reality, but I am part of a bilingual group that knows the reality in Flanders as well. What I am going to say could therefore be supported by all members of my group. I am also delighted to be able to intervene. Indeed, our concern is the quality and accessibility of health care for every citizen throughout the country. Minister, I will structure my inquiry into three areas. First of all, when you are asked about the number of general practitioners who are more or less 55 years old, whether in Liège, Mol, Tirlemont or Schaerbeek, you cannot or do not want to answer them. On the other hand, you limit the number of new doctors who are allowed to continue their studies in Belgium. To this end, you rely on scientific data which, you say, are the best in Europe thanks to the dynamic cadastre of health professionals. I recognize that a job has been done. It is true that, since 2014, this cadastre incorporates data and allows us to realize the huge difference between existing and active physicians. Similarly, we have such indications as to their number and activity in the three regions of the country. However, this is not enough. We have already had an opportunity to debate it in committee. That is insufficient, Madam Minister, because statistical methods are not the panacea. There is a lack of field knowledge to assess care needs by care pool. It is a work to be undertaken with the various health care providers and home helpers to properly assess the needs that are encountered and those that are not encountered in the provision of care. This will enable the Planning Commission to carry out an evaluation of the supply and number of doctors required in the various specializations. That, too, you refuse! What are you afraid of in this way of working from the field, bringing the information back to the commission and cross-checking the data from the field with statistical exercises? Are you afraid to discover that the number of doctors needed in Liège, Brussels, Antwerp, Riemst and Bastogne is insufficient? Is that what prevents you from opting for a method of appreciation that is more in relation to reality? Indeed, the conclusion and conclusion of this non-crossing of realities by basin of care is that we find ourselves, as today, in an opposition between Flemish and Francophones. The problem is shared, while it is more widespread, across the whole of the country, where the needs are not met. I would also like to quote a few figures from an approach different from that of my colleagues. By 2021, 1,230 new doctors will be allowed to have an INAMI number each year. In 2022, it will be 1,320 doctors, based on the figures of the Planning Commission. But the examination of all the figures submitted and included in the reports tells us that in Flanders, 270 out-of-quota doctors will be employed by hospitals which lack doctors. On the French side, the same reality: 200 doctors will be hired out of quota, which is 1,492 in 2021. Do you realize the proportion? The number of doctors in Flanders is limited to 738 and an additional 270 doctors are allowed to come out of quota. The number of doctors on the French-speaking side is limited to 492, depending on the 60/40 distribution key, and 200 out-of-quota physicians will be able to settle or practice in hospitals. These are foreign doctors from the European Union who, via free movement, will come to settle here, but they are also, on the basis of the prospective data published in the planning figures, Belgian students who will study abroad and return with a foreign diploma and who will be exempt from Belgian quotas. If these out-of-quota doctors are able to prescribe and if they are hired by hospitals, is it not precisely because we need them? Isn't that because it's missing? Is it not because the assessment that is made and the quotas that are decided are lower than the actual needs?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u126	Mr President, Madam Minister, like Mrs Gerkens, I regret that this dossier is being shared, where we are talking about the fate of students, the fate of the sick who are unable to find sufficient doctors. There is a shortage of general practitioners and in some specialties to the point that it must be "imported". We're getting into an outmoded situation. One can be worried by seeing the planning committee's forecasts for 2037, which speak of 7.94 full-time equivalent doctors in Flanders and 5.09 in Wallonia per 10,000 inhabitants, clearly below the threshold of "medical poverty" which is 9 generalists per 10,000 inhabitants. Both in Wallonia and Flanders, we are located below. This summer, the generalist trade was placed on the list of occupations in short supply at Forem. I don't know if you know, minister. At the same time, there is an impossibility for students who would like to remedy this shortage to embark on this path. The question that should arise is how to solve this rationally for the benefit of patients in Belgium, while respecting young people who make the difficult choice and deserve to devote themselves to the training of doctors. When we look at the figures, we understand that we need to fundamentally review the logic of the quotas that governs the allocation of INAMI numbers since 1997. Apparently, in this country, it's impossible! First, because it would mean investing more in health care and training, but also because it would call into question the privileges of some who see their profession as a privileged corporation and want to limit supply. Unfortunately, there are doctors who see only this financial aspect, while there is an objective health care problem in this country. Instead of objecting the needs and leading the debate on the future of our health care, many prefer to communityize the issue. The government's latest decision to maintain the 60/40 key rather than 56.5/43.5 is to be understood in this direction. It is purely political. These are your own words, Madam Minister. In any case, it is not based on a substantiated needs analysis. How will this new key help resolve the shortage? I'm asking you the question, ma'am, because frankly, I don't see. The 2021 quotas were invalidated by the Council of State this summer, which considered them unfounded. Since quotas are based on political compromises, according to your own statements, and not on an independent opinion of the Planning Committee, what would prevent us from reviving every summer the same scenario of an invalidation by the Council of State? What about the students on the route now? Can you assure us that they will soon receive this INAMI number, or do you intend to use them as hostages throughout the years to come?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u127	Madam Minister, calling the dossier a procession of Echternach is unfortunately becoming an understatement. Allow me to address my colleague Onkelinx first? Mrs Onkelinx, I would like to address you directly, because your speech on this dossier is very cynical. Your responsibility for missing the file is crushing. I'll also explain why. For many years, as a competent minister, you have been wiping out all kinds of constructions to keep your colleague in the French Community Government out of control. He has refused to do what he has to do there for eighteen years, namely to set up an entrance exam. You have made 18 years of constructions, so today's students are uploading the RIZIV numbers of the future. We're already in 2022. If today students are uncertain about their future, Mrs Onkelinx, then you are jointly responsible. You have led them to believe that you would solve everything and that you would ensure that the federal law, for which you have so much love, could enter the fridge. That's your responsibility. I find it extremely cynical that you are standing here again and again and dare to point in the direction of the Minister. I'm sorry I had to say that, but this file really pisses me off.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u128	I give the floor to Mrs Onkelinx for personal reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u129	Dear lady, I know this file well. I fought in this department for years, for Francophones and Dutch speakers. I have never been caught in failure to pursue a policy that would be contrary to the interests of a region's inhabitants because they were in a region. First thing: it may hurt, but that's how it is. For me, the health of all the people of this country was a priority. Two: I go back to what has happened at Community level. Flanders and the French Community have taken different measures. Never forget that Flanders did not introduce an examination on the basis of the INAMI quotas, but a competition which, if you know your file, resulted in the presence of students who were supernumerary in relation to the INAMI quotas. The French Community has taken another path. Each Community had taken its own path. I, as a federal minister, questioned by the INAMI and the Kenniscentrum, and seeing what the Planning Commission was saying about the shortage of doctors, did indeed support the doctors by a whole series of means that I stated earlier (revalorizations, project 1733, Impulseo funds). I have taken these responsibilities for everyone, whether on the French-speaking or the Dutch-speaking side. And it was the planning commission itself, with Dutch speakers – which hurts you – that told us that it had a particular problem on the francophone side, because there were specificities. When a Region has an important rural character, making arrangements is obvious. What you are doing here is making decisions of a community nature, which I have never done!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u130	Mrs Onkelinx, if you'll excuse me, I'm going to get rid of some of the things that I'm tired of hearing in this file. Firstly, if someone has made the file Community, then it is your party, by not doing what had to be done. Secondly, you know very well that there is no global need for doctors, but there is a current shortage in certain sub-specialities. The power in this area belongs to the present Community government, by providing subquotas and leading students there. So take responsibility! I would also like to add the following. If you think you can solve the deficit by raising the general quota at federal level, then you are not telling the truth, and you know it very well. Let me explain to you why. There would be no deficit in Wallonia today, because there are no quotas in Wallonia. You don't have a filter and there's still a shortage. That is because the Community government, which is competent, does not allocate to the specialities of its parts. That's the truth. Thirdly, the government does take account of the Planning Committee. The general quotas are increased at the discretion of the Planning Committee. However, we will not touch the 60/40 distribution. Moreover, this division was not scientifically substantiated either. The distribution was made on the basis of choices made. One of the arguments for releasing the 60/40 distribution is the fact that doctors in Wallonia apparently work less hours. However, it was not verified whether this might be because there are too many doctors. We do not need to follow that. The 60/40 distribution thus remains.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u131	I'll give Mrs. Onkelinx a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u132	Start by saying that there is a shortage among Francophones because doctors would be lazy, it is really an insult that I do not accept! Then, when you say you're tired of hearing that it's from the community, I ask you: who said it? It's Minister Ben Weyts! In addition, what did the Minister of Public Health say? She explained that it was a political decision. Indeed, it is not a choice of public health, but a Community decision and therefore a political one!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u133	Mrs Onkelinx, you have made the file Community, and that for a party that claims to love the federal level, by saying and refusing to participate when something is decided at federal level that you do not like. That is how you have made the file Community. For 18 years, you haven't wanted to get an entrance exam. Mr President, I propose that I continue to ask my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u134	Mr President, what matters to me is that we find solutions for all the graduates and all the doctors who, tomorrow, will ensure the future of health care. However, I would like the minister in charge to validate or not what has just been said about the work of the Planning Commission, which should be supposedly concluded that the Walloon doctor do nothing and are lazy people who work less. That's what a majority party just said. If the government's position is indeed to validate this, it is a real insult to the work of doctors on a daily basis and to their investment. Minister, yes or no, do you agree with what your majority says here on behalf of the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u135	This is a typical example showing that figures and statistics are not enough. How was it estimated that a physician was equivalent to a full-time worker? The number of consultations reimbursed by an INAMI physician was taken. That was as much income as it was. Doctors of the 50's were taken, thinking that these doctors had their careers and were fully working. We then compared a doctor who earns less than X INAMI refund. It was considered "zero comma something full time". A doctor who has more is considered "a comma something full time". Hence Mrs Van Peel's conclusions. On the other hand, if we ask ourselves questions related to reality on the ground, there are many things that accompany these facts. If this difference arises, it is because the length of the consultation must be taken into account, and the quality of the relationship established during a consultation. When you see too many patients, when you see a patient ten minutes or twenty, the cost-effectiveness is different. Doctors refuse to let patients go to other doctors. We must ask ourselves all these questions in relation to what is happening on the ground. This will allow us to assess the strength of the medical supply on the ground. For the rest, the conclusions you draw, that is, that there are people in the North who work more, and others who work less in the South, are of no use whatsoever. This does not provide any information on the nature of the need for care, nor on the supply required to meet the needs and needs of the citizen.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u136	I appreciate what Mrs Gerkens just said. It is recognized that I am not excellent bilingual, but I do not think Ms. Van Peel said that Francophone physicians were lazy. They work differently, and again. When you say working less, it means that not all doctors have to make a full-time equivalent. I think we need to pay attention to the interpretation of what has been said. I would like to bring some serenity to this debate and I will take this opportunity to speak later. Finally, perhaps it would be time to give Mrs Van Peel time to ask her questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u137	There has indeed been a debate here in the meantime. What you do confirm is that the justification of the Planning Committee makes choices, so it is not a scientific fact. What I said, and you know this from the committee meeting, is that, among other things, account was taken of the fact that on the Walloon side there are fewer hours per doctor and therefore more doctors would be needed, but that it was not taken into account whether this might be because there are too many doctors in certain specialties, which also means that they find fewer clients. That was my point. We have been talking about this for half an hour now, and perhaps that was interesting. In order to continue with what it amounts to, this government, which you do not seem to understand, in a file in which we should have said'stop' for years, has nevertheless made the choice of thinking again about a solution. We want to go along with that, but the conditions must be made clear. That's what this government does. We want to set the quotas for 2022, but we do ask that you finally install a filter, something that was decided 18 years ago. We want the current students, who have been lied to by you about the fact that the RIZIV numbers would disappear, to graduate with a RIZIV number, but that amount must be paid off. Why do we want to do that? This is not even a Community game. Mrs Onkelinx, as you yourself said, quotas have been introduced for two reasons. Firstly, in order to maintain the quality of care, and not as is the case today in the Walloon universities with a number of students in the auditoriums, which means that the quality goes down sharply. Secondly, to ensure that there is no overconsumption due to too many doctors and therefore health care remains affordable. That is why the quota system was introduced. That is why this government is putting forward today a proposal that we can support. This is only the first partial agreement. Take your bloody responsibility in the French Community Government so that we can solve this dossier once and for all. Madam Minister, I am now addressing you with the following questions. Have you received an answer from Mr Marcourt? I'm not really happy with the press releases on the subject, because I don't feel like he's already thinking along, although I hope he says something else to you. The whole debate on how we are going to reach an overall conclusion, with a pay-off and a distribution for the future and with an entrance examination at last, remains to be conducted. Can you assure me that this government will continue to build in sufficient filters to ensure that the surplus is actually reduced and that the admission exam, which hopefully will be held, will also continue for as long as the quota is in place? In view of the spirit of the current debate, I have very little confidence in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u138	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this debate is essential. Everyone will recognize here that we all want the best health care in our country and, by definition, the best training for our doctors. It is possible to debate in complete serenity, even if we do not agree on several points. If we assume that everyone wants the best health care, we must admit that the goals are the same, but that the means to achieve them may vary. In this regard, I would like to go back a little. To my knowledge, it was in 1997 that the Dehaene II government, with the participation of French- and Dutch-speaking socialists, decided, in this case, to introduce the quota or, at least, the proportion of 60/40. I will go even further in the reasoning, because it was the same government that had opted for an entry examination. At that time, if my information is correct, the proposed numberrus clausus, which was intended to evolve, was 700 to reach 1230 in 2015. Therefore, I have to ask myself the following question – but again, in an extremely serene way. Between 1997 and today, more specifically, between 2009 – when Minister Marcourt took office in the French Community – and now between 2007 and 2014 – during which time Ms Onkelinx was Minister of Public Health – even though the latter claimed to have made decisions that were suitable for everyone, I note that the problem has not been solved. We're facing a quick-cooker that's boiling. And Minister De Block is being asked to settle the problem definitively in two years, while others have not been able to solve it in the previous ten years. It is easy to put on the back of the current government the responsibility for this older problem. I understand that some want to make this issue a community issue, but we know very well that the community is probably the only way the opposition has found to destabilize the government. However, I note that, since what was decided in 1997, this examination has been introduced in Flanders, whereas this is still not the case on the French-speaking side. I will be the first to make honourable amends and stop systematically blaming each other for what worked and what did not work. At some point, we have to intervene. I must say that I was a little surprised by the interventions of my predecessors in which we are talking about shortages already in 2012. I would still like to believe that, but I would like to know on what specific basis this shortage has been announced. I recall that in 2008, the MR had already asked, through Mr Brochi, to have a dynamic cadastre of the situation of doctors in Belgium. This cadastre, we've never had it, except since Mrs. De Block was in command. This is an element that allows us to have a much clearer analysis and allows us to move forward in the interests of physicians. Mrs Fonck, you talked about the way Mrs De Block considered the students. You are now defending an entry exam or equivalent! I congratulate you! The problem is that you are facing a certain contradiction, Mrs. Fonck. In 2010 and 2014, we filed a clear request to have this entrance exam and the cdH, like the PS, swept it away by a hand. I'm just saying that the CDH voted against it. I am therefore very pleased to hear today that you fully agree with this approach, but from time to time I want to put the members of this honourable House back to their contradictions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u139	Personally, I have been in favour of an entry examination for a long time. Who validated the competition at the end of the first year? It's not just politics! There is the Constitutional Court. Why is the Council of State decapitating this with two judgments? This is not the result of a competition problem, it is the result of the Royal Federal Order of August 2015. According to the Council of State, this royal decree does not hold on anything, is illegal and has no legal basis. What we're interested in is finding a solution for everyone, and I think we can. Let us take advantage of the decisions of the Council of State and take advantage of the decisions of the courts. The problem is not a quota story, it is to be able to agree on an entry examination model which is similar for Belgium as a whole and then to guarantee an INAMI number to all those who have graduated. There is no reason to give a gift to foreigners when one continues to hurt – one feels that one is hurting for pleasure – to those who, in Belgium, have not only studied but have studied at a very high level. I stress that, for this entry examination, it is also necessary to have adequate preparation. Different models exist. But that is not the biggest problem today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u140	Mrs. Fonck, you're absolutely right. That is not the biggest problem. An INAMI number for everyone, I think we all agree. An identical entry exam in the North and South, I don't think anyone was against it. On the contrary! The problem is, we should have done it a decade ago. Minister, I would like to ask you two specific questions. On the one hand, can you give us an overview of the steps that have been taken to be able to solve the problem as a whole now? On the other hand, can you assure me that, in the head of the French Community, you would either have a promotion or already have an agreement on the principle of a filter that would be well established at the beginning of the course? For, in the end, if we solve this problem, it is of course that we are moving towards a global solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u141	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a great deal has already been said in the debate. I shall therefore make my speech brief. I would like to say very clearly that for my party a student who starts a doctor's programme and ends it successfully, must also have the certainty of getting a RIZIV number and getting access to the profession. That was our attitude in the debate we had here years ago. Madam Secretary, you were then a colleague here on our benches. It was then about the kinesis, especially about the exam at the end of their studies. That is also our attitude today. Let me be very clear, ladies and gentlemen. The fact that it is under discussion today is the crushing responsibility of the French-speaking Community government, which for years failed to introduce an effective filter that effectively reduces inflow. I'm not pointing at anyone here. I am simply saying that it is the responsibility of the French-speaking Community. We must therefore solve the problems with the agreement before us today. I believe that what is ahead today, Madam Minister, is a first important step. It's an agreement under conditions. It's a minimum for us. I want to be clear about what we, as a CD&V, want in the file. A lot of numbers have been magiced here. I hear double readings of numbers here. We say that there is actually a shortage on the Flemish side today. That was already there in 2012. There will be, if we extrapolate it, even after 2020. It is a deficit of 390 places. Let us look at the French-speaking side. Mrs Onkelinx also referred to 2012. There were 1 247 too many back then. This figure only increases after 2020, to 1 350. Of course, students are entitled to a RIZIV number, but we say this clearly: this can only be done if there is an effective entrance exam. That is why we want the agreement to include the adoption of this at second reading. I am following those fellow Members who say that Minister Marcort speaks with double tongue. Firstly, we want to know now, Madam Minister, whether there has been a consultation. Does the French Government intend to organise the exam effectively? Secondly, when it comes to deficits and transfers in general practitioners and other disciplines, that is subquotas, and that is a Community competence. We are talking about transfers and shortages on the Flemish side. Madam Minister, I would like to hear from you, Madam Minister, that by 2022 the deficits and transfers will be eliminated. That is a condition for us. Thirdly, I want to talk about the internships. Unfortunately, I have heard far too little about this in the debate today. What will happen to the internships? We know that a double cohort will graduate in 2018. How are the placements funded? Every student has the right to a good internship. There is also a problem with certain disciplines, which should be upgraded. There is also a problem with the status of students in training, whether they are specialists in training or general practitioner. Madam Minister, we would like you to take the lead on these points within the framework of the agreement and to speak about it with your fellow Members, since it is a shared competence. That's our attitude. Madam Minister, I hope that everyone can get a RIZIV number, but then everyone too must take their responsibilities in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u142	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u143	Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor once after a debate of more than an hour, which many of my fellow Members are interested in. Planning of the medical supply is necessary in order to continue to guarantee quality care and an over-number of practitioners only reduce the quality of training and care. For the difficult issue of quotas, I have been trying since my arrival to find a global and lasting solution which everyone can agree to. A plan of approach was already agreed with the relevant Länder ministers in December 2014. One part of this was the commitment of the French Community to install an effective filter to finally control the outflow. In addition, an active filter was also a condition for the adoption of a scheme allowing all students, including those who will be in excess of the quotas determined for each year of promotion and who started their studies by 2014 at the latest, to award a university certificate at the time of their doctor's promotion. Since the French Community has chosen to install a competition at the end of the first bachelor's year, the effectiveness of that filter could therefore be evaluated at the earliest in September of this year, after the second sitting time. The choice to organise a test after the first year of study gave rise to the so-called "reçus-collés', which were students who finished the first bachelor year with at least 45 credits and then were not properly classified in the competition. As would be expected, many of these "reçus' collés' proceedings have been initiated before the Council of State and before several courts of first instance. In fine terms, therefore, it is regrettable that the filter established by the French Community did not have the desired effect at all. This is also apparent from the various recent judgments of the Council of State and from a number of courts of first instance. The Council of State had a number of questions on the grounds and reasons of the Royal Decree on the federal quota for 2021. However, I believe that I have sufficient arguments to suggest that the quota 2021 has been properly established. Even if it is right that I took an initiative when I took office to further refine the determination of quotas thanks to a dynamic cadastre and a mathematical model for determining supply and demand, the previous methodology, as used by my predecessor for the quotas up to 2020, was also substantiated and robust to formulate quotas on the basis of the concerns of the Belgian population. The judgments cited by the Council of State and subsequent decisions in interim proceedings relating to the ranking of students in the competition show that the filter established on the French-speaking side is not working. In addition, the French Community has now decided to grant all students who have obtained at least 45 credits access to the second year of basic medical training. It is up to the French Community to finally achieve the first condition, already included in the roadmap for a solution in December 2014, namely the installation of an effective filter. Only that step can prevent a total impasse. I hope to be able to hear soon from the French Community Government that this filter has indeed been set up. On 15 September, the Minister reaffirmed what I have been saying since I took office, namely that the installation of an actual selection test is necessary. Recent developments in this difficult dossier confirm once again that it is more than preferable to organise such a test prior to the beginning of the first year. Therefore, such a prior selection test remains a prerequisite for finding a solution for the students who will be promoted in the period 2017-2020. A working group within the government is in charge of developing a solution for the setting of quotas for the years 2023 and following, as well as for access to specialisation training for all students who, from 2017 to 2020 including, obtain the degree of doctor. There are possible avenues for such a solution, but there is still a need for discussion in the working group. This solution will be submitted to the Council of Ministers together with the draft royal decree setting quotas 2022. The draft Royal Decree on Quotas 2022 takes account of the decisions of the Council of State, which took place after the work of the Planning Committee, which resulted in an opinion on quotas 2022. In formulating its opinion, the Planning Committee assumed that the French Community filter was effective and that, in other words, the French Community would grant the degree of doctor to a maximum of 492 students in 2021. According to the most recent information available to me, 283 more students than originally planned spend in the second year of bachelor's degree. The hypothesis used last April by the Planning Committee to deliver its opinion on quotas 2022 is therefore no longer valid. That is why it was decided to reduce the 2022 quotas of the French Community slightly. Compared to the excess number of students entering the second year of bachelor's degree, this is only a small decrease. Moreover, the report of the Planning Commission showed that several members had replied that the quota of the Flemish Community was too low. That is why the quota of the Flemish Community has been slightly increased. However, the essence of the notice has not been changed. In other words, the figure of the overall federal quota, as set by the Planning Commission for 2022, namely 1,320 doctors, has been respected. It is not desirable, in fact, to create again an abundance of doctors. It should be noted that the quota of the French Community of 2022, as set out in the Royal Decree, amounts to 528. Compared to the 2021 quota, this represents an increase of 7.3%, i.e. 36 units. This is the first time that the quota has increased significantly for Francophone students. I have no doubt whatsoever about the scientific work done by the Planning Committee, quite the contrary. The numbers were adjusted on the basis of the data I have just explained. KB's draft was now transferred to the Council of State for advice together with the report to the King. This opinion will be given within a period of one month. As far as the scientific work of the Planning Commission is concerned, you know that it has been constantly improving since its creation and that its predictive capacity is evolving as new types of data become available. Quotas 2023, for example, will be set on the basis of alternative scenarios. At the same time, the administration is continuing its efforts to redevelop the mathematical model, a tool that has helped project likely quantitative scenarios for all the professions considered. This tool has evolved in recent years towards a more transparent, flexible and user-friendly model. It will allow for faster quantification of the assumptions of the experts gathered in the Planning Committee and provide alternative scenarios for the evolution of the labour force in order to consolidate the forthcoming quotas. With regard to the figures put forward by the Inter-University Committee of Medical Students (ICUM), as Ms Caprasse said, they referred to the number of 2,185 graduates by 2021 and for the coming years they were advancing extremely low numbers for students in each medical school. I do not know the basis of calculations used to advance these limited numbers. It is therefore difficult for me to position myself on the conclusions they draw from it. I understand the concerns that may exist related to the viability of the faculties of medicine if there are no minimum number of students who occupy faculties. I've taken that into account, too. This has been taken into account in the phasing out of the transfer to doctorate students in recent years. On the other hand, the overcrowding of faculties of medicine cannot be accepted because the quality of training and the quality of our health care is at risk of being hypothesized. Since the sixth reform of the State, the sub-quotas have come within the Community's competence. It is therefore up to the Communities to set specific subquotas which respond to the observations made, for example by increasing the quotas for general medicine or for specialties where shortages are found and, conversely, to limit them for specialties where abundance exists. The only condition is that these subquotas comply with the overall federal quota. However, it is not realistic to think of forcing someone to move to a certain discipline or to move to a specific location. To conclude, I would like to stress that, pending a clear signal from the French Community, I remain fully prepared to carry out the roadmap that I put forward in December 2014, in order to put an end to the uncertainty for the students who have already started their studies, but also to get away from the many years of deadlock, which led to the training of large numbers of medical students on the French-speaking side. The debate will not end here, but at least I thank all the members of the committee for their interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u144	I would remind my fellow Members that only the interpreters are entitled to a reply. Only interrogators are entitled to a reply, not those who asked a question. That's the rules. Mr. Thiéry, it's awful, but that's how it is. Mrs Caprasse has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u145	Minister, I would like to ask you a small supplementary question. As I understand it, you have decided on the 60/40 allocation key on the basis of comments made in the Planning Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u146	Mr President, I think I have fully explained that I have taken account of the opinion of the Planning Committee. In the meantime, however, the facts have changed, precisely as a result of the judgments of the Council of State, which will now leave a number of students on the French-speaking side.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u147	In any case, in view of what has been decided, I am not convinced that these are the right decisions. I cannot content myself with the answers given because, in reality, it will be quite different in the future. That is why I am tabling a motion of recommendation. I call on the federal government to stop making the issue of medical supply a purely Community issue and to turn it into a matter of public health; to take responsibility for ensuring sufficient medical supply in both the north and the south of the country; to allocate the quota of INAMI numbers in accordance with the recommendations of the experts of the Medical Supply Planning Commission, which implies a revision of the key of 60% for the Flemish Community and 40% for the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, the experts recommending a new key of 56.5% against 43.5%; and to refrain from imposing a negative smoothing in order to correct a so-called neglect of the past, because it is not based on an objective basis and risks seriously harming public health in the south of the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u148	Mr President, I would like to go back to a statement made by Mr Thiéry who thought that, in the decision on the quotas for doctors, at the same time a decision had been taken at the federal level to impose an entry examination. That's incorrect! It was decided that the Communities should have a filter and have a choice. For example, a filter was decided in the third year in the French Community and then, under the impulse of Hervé Hasquin, of your party, another filter was chosen. All parties participated, at one time, at the Francophone level, in governments in the French Community, and each time responsible filter decisions were made.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u149	I can hear what you're saying, but at the moment we've seen that the system has reached its limits and that we're in a real knot. It is said that some ministers never answer questions. In this case, I would like to stress that Minister De Block has answered all the questions and has also been very clear about current and future issues and what will be done, as long as there is, this time, a filter or system at the start of studies and not a year or three years later.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u150	So what Mr. Thiéry said was false and all the French-speaking parties imagined the filters, government after government. Secondly, the current situation is stupid. You have a lot of doctors who settle in our country and practice because there is a shortage. In 2013, for example, outside the European Union, 2,000 specialists worked in this country! What is lamentable is that we do not consider the needs of the field or the quality of medicine. This file is made into a community file. I fully agree with what the Planning Committee said, not this time, but the previous one. She said: in the face of an incredible situation, why not completely free the shortages of specializations from these quota problems? Why don't we just set quotas where there is no shortage? We will always need planning for medicine, of course. Finally, the minister responded. What did she say? In committee, she continuously stated that she would follow the advice of the Planning Commission. To the parliamentarians present in the Committee on Health, she had said that she would follow this opinion. And what did she say? That a minority disagreed with the committee's agreement, and therefore followed the minority. That's what she said here. The INAMI quotas for Francophones have been reduced and increased for Dutch speakers, compared to the decision of the Planning Commission. I call it a will to do community, not to look at problems. Mr. Ben Weyts is right: you, the MR, have accepted the diktat of the N-VA.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u151	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, it would be worth looking for the text that contains your comments. We have the impression that the world has changed and that the arguments that were not used yesterday are today. We would not be there today with the effects of the competition organized in the French Community and cancelled if the royal decree of the government of 30 August 2015 was not clearly questioned and considered totally arbitrary by the Council of State. Minister, it's amazing that before the government's decision, you tell us and repeat that you will follow the advice of the Planning Commission because you have a scientific foundation. You tell us a lot! But I don't have a problem with that. I even agree. However, we cannot change everything after the fact and now sweep your announcement to follow scientific arguments with a backhand. It's obviously a little easy. I have noted, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that your royal decree which is now sent to the Council of State states in its last paragraph that it appears from the reading of the report of the meeting of the Planning Committee that the quota of the Flemish Community does not meet the needs of doctors within the Flemish Community and therefore that there are shortages. I have no problem with that. If there are shortages on the part of the Flemish Community, it must be possible to remedy them. However, the Royal Order does not contain a single word relating to what the Planning Commission objected to on the francophone side, namely also shortages. Would I dare to read again what members of the Planning Commission have said? For example, Dr. Cédric Hermans of UCL believes that the experts have been flouted and that their work has been deconstructed. And you're asking them today to work on something else, when you don't even respect their decisions after saying it loud and clear? What interests me, I say, and I will repeat, is to find solutions. Madam Minister, I want to lock you up with the Community ministers in a room, to force you to reach an agreement and not let any of them out until an agreement is signed. We cannot continue to place a sword of Damocles above the head of these medical students, whether they enter the first year of the baccalaureate or not. We cannot continue to leave them in uncertainty. That's enough! Because there are overwhelming political responsibilities in this matter, it is now necessary for all the competent politicians to sign an agreement and find a positive solution for all those who, today and tomorrow, are involved in medical and dental studies. I therefore raise a motion which, Mr President, takes up the various elements on which I want to insist, including negotiations leading to a solution and allowing both the guarantee of an INAMI number for each graduate and an entry examination in the first year with optional preparation on a model similar to the Flemish Community. Above all, I ask the ministers to agree with each other to do something of the same order. This will make things easier. I also stress the importance of examining the way in which INAMI numbers are given to European doctors under the free movement of diplomas, since it is necessary to guarantee both the mastery of a national language and the quality of health care. Mr. Chairman, I move this motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u152	Mr President, I would just like to say a few words about the fact that Mrs Fonck is asking for a solution. That solution was in December 2014. There was an agreement between Minister Marcourt, Minister Crevits and myself. Then the Planning Committee came up with its proposal, which I did indeed say was scientifically substantiated, that I supported it and that I would submit it to the Council of Ministers. Then there was the destruction of the so-called Marcourt filter. That was after the advice of Planning Committee. The timeline is important here. As a result, 283 students, so-called "reçus-collés', appeared to be joining. Once again, therefore, the quotaing of the number of students entering the studies is not respected. Mrs Fonck, as far as locking up is concerned, we are not here in the Vatican where people are going to lock up until white smoke comes out of the chimney. I am prepared to sit at the table with my fellow Members at all times, but I do not want to be locked up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u153	Let's talk about the timeline, minister! When did you say once again that you were going to follow the Planning Commission, because you were relying on scientific arguments? The same morning that the government decided not to follow that commission! Minister, the timeline is unstoppable. You said it on television and in the press, especially in Towards the Future. If you wish, I will offer you this time line. Rewrite history to fix your business, I can tell you, it's not scientific!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u154	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for the comprehensive and detailed answer, as we are used to it. Unfortunately, it's not reassuring. After all, you are still waiting for the answer from Walloon Minister Marcourt. When I hear the French-speaking fellow Members here, I do not see, with the best will, too much willingness to go along with your roadmap. So you have indeed taken a first step with your partial agreement, but the story is far from over. We do not yet know whether there will be a working French-speaking filter at all and whether it will work properly. There hasn't been a filter in 19 years. When I hear the Members of this House so busy, I doubt very much whether the will is present this time. We must therefore wait and see what the French Community will do, wait and see how seriously the French Community will possibly take an admission test, wait and see if the French Community will finally accept its responsibility. The question therefore arises as to what you still have to do, if the agreements will not be met on the French-speaking side this time too. I have not tabled a motion of recommendation. I know the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber. I had my oral question translated into an interplay, because I would like to make full use of my right to speak. If I had tabled a motion for a recommendation, it would contain a plan B, something you have to hold back, the only solution you have left. This solution actually responds to the questions put by Mrs Fonck and Mrs Onkelinx in order to stop the discussion at Community level. There is only one way to stop discussing this at Community level, namely through the immediate regionalisation of social security. In this case, there is no need to discuss a 60/40 ratio or other ratios. It is then 100 % French and 100 % Dutch. On the French-speaking side, the French Community Government then does what it wants with the policy itself, but then it bears the costs itself. That is the only recommendation you can make, Madam Secretary. Keep that as a stick behind the door if this time nothing comes into the house of the bolt that should finally be installed on the French-speaking side after twenty years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u155	Mr President, I will continue with the consistency that Ecolo-Groen, Agalev at the time in 1997, has always maintained in this dossier. We voted against this law establishing quotas because it was well known that this would lead to the present situation. I recall that in 2014, the WHO and the OECD issued reports on health policies and citizens' access to health care. They considered that the determinants of health were important in relation to the provision of health care to the population. These determinants include social and economic conditions, but there is also proximity to care. Belgium is pointed out as not providing sufficient access to the Belgian citizen because of a lack of proximity to health care and precisely because there are too many areas in our country where needs are not covered, both in Flanders and Wallonia. With respect to an entry examination or other study organization, these are not federal jurisdiction. I'm not going to think that we're planning, meeting health care needs, thinking about how many students are going to start their first year. The organisation and coverage of needs comes from an assessment of what is happening on the ground and from the cross-section of this observation with actors who scientifically analyse these data. Minister, you never give a clear answer on what prevents this exercise from gathering information from actors on the ground and getting them to work with the members of the planning commission. However, we are convinced that this is where the solution lies to have a care offer that meets the needs. There is a need to compare and supplement field indications and statistical indicators. You turn your backs on the organization of the implantation, saying, "It's a liberal profession, so we're not going to go this way." There are still liberal professions that are conditioned, whose practitioners cannot settle anywhere they want. In terms of health, pharmacists cannot settle anywhere they want. In other areas, there are not as many notaries as you want anywhere you want. Here, it is in addition to the liberal professions that are still financed by social security, with the mission of giving citizens access to quality health care throughout the country. Having the requirement that they cover the needs does not seem to me to be an infringement of what you call a liberal profession, which could therefore do anything. The fact that it is only this "liberal profession" approach has another effect, also on shortages in some of the specializations. There are completely crazy salaries for some specializations, and others are then abandoned. Finally, an organization of care professionals has to meet the needs of a competitive market between candidates, who sometimes struggle for bad reasons in the different specializations. Minister, you also did not answer the last question I asked you. From 450 to 500 doctors are hired, settled and served, while they are out of quota. If they do, and if they are hired in hospitals, it is because we need them; or because we want to hire specialist doctors in certain hospitals, who will be underpaid compared to Belgian doctors of the same specializations. This must also be taken into account. We're not in gabegie. We're in a situation where we have to look elsewhere, because we don't have doctors trained at home to meet the needs. I cannot understand the logic in which you persist with regard to how to develop quotas or, in any case, how to assess the provision of care that we need. Together with my colleague Anne Dedry, we also table a motion for a recommendation that requires a basin-based needs assessment and a territorial physician facility organization. It further asks that, simultaneously, and fairly quickly, the harmonization of remuneration be worked out, in order to avoid distortions in the choice of specializations and in the use of doctors from other countries, in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u156	Mr President, something struck me in the words of the minister and colleagues of the majority. Indeed, there are two key problems in this dossier: the problem of medical students and their fate. It is the fault to, it is the fault to... These are very unsatisfactory answers, but typical of the political game. But there is a second aspect, on which I have not heard the minister, nor the colleagues of the majority. The other big problem in this case is the shortage of doctors. I didn't hear you talk about it. You know, there's no such thing as a problem. There are too few generalists in some places. Some specialties have too few doctors, and you act like it doesn't exist, as if it wasn't a problem. It's pretty amazing that such an essential problem doesn't exist for you! What do we hear? We hear you talking about an abundance of doctors, the colleagues of the majority are talking about overconsumption, so purely financial logic and that I am not surprised by some parties that want to destroy social security. On the other hand, under-consumption, shortages are not mentioned, whereas according to the data in my possession, 500 doctors are "imported" a year and 25% of doctors today have graduated abroad. What can be observed? That there is even a free curriculum that opens up in Romania! So from now on, we will see Belgian students who will go to Romania, if they can afford it, and who will be able to return to Belgium and get an INAMI number without problems. We are part of a totally crazy logic, purely financial in my opinion. We are talking about the Community, but at the basic level, the problem is not a Community one. The problem is a financial logic, a market logic, where some have extravagant revenues, because some specialties generate revenues that amount to hundreds of thousands of euros per year. Obviously, some want to maintain these privileges and produce negative interference over the entire profession. That is the basis of the problem! We are part of a market logic and I think we have to get out of it. To this end, we have introduced a motion for a recommendation, which calls on the government to urgently establish a dynamic and reliable cadastre for medical planning and management, the basis of which must be an analysis of the health needs of the population. It is to this foundation that it is important to return. Pending this framework, the current quota system for physicians is being suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u157	Mr President, I will make a small attempt to explain it again to Mr Van Hees. The penuria for some specialties such as general practitioners, geriaters, pediaters and psychiatrists is there and has also been established. This now falls within the competence of the Communities. I would like to point out to you, Mr Van Hees, that the fact that there were a number of doctors who graduated in Wallonia in recent years did not lead to the penuria not occurring there. You're making a diagnosis, but you're choosing the wrong cure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u158	Minister, I have not heard any solution to this problem! You remain to quotas that you yourself have said were not good, since you have come back to your own decision. Admit that there is a fundamental problem! You cannot admit it because you are held by other members of your coalition.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u159	Mr Van Hees, thank you. This concludes our debate on quotas.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u160	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Ms. Véronique Caprasse and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Mrs Véronique Caprasse, Laurette Onkelinx, Catherine Fonck, Barbara Pas, Muriel Gerkens and Mr Marco Van Hees and the response of the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, asks the federal government - to stop making the issue of medical supply a purely Community issue and to turn it into a public health issue; - to take responsibility for ensuring sufficient medical supply in both the north and the south of the country; - to allocate the INAMI number quota in accordance with the recommendations of the experts of the Medical Supply Planning Commission, which implies a revision of the key of 60% for the Flemish Community and 40% for the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, the experts recommending a new key of 56.5% / 43.5 per cent; - to refrain from imposing a negative smoothing in order to correct a so-called ‘negligence' of the past, because it is not based on an objective basis, and risks seriously harming public health in the south of the country." A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Véronique Caprasse and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mrs Véronique Caprasse, Laurette Onkelinx, Catherine Fonck, Barbara Pas, Muriel Gerkens and Mr Marco Van Hees and the reply of the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, calls on the federal government - no longer reduce the issue of the medical offer to a purely Community matter and to now consider it a public health issue; - to assume its responsibility to ensure adequate medical supplies both in the north and in the south of the country; - to distribute the quotas for the RIZIV numbers in accordance with the recommendations of the experts of the Planning Committee on Medical Supply, which means that the allocation key 60 % for the Flemish Community and 40 % for the French Community will be revised, since the experts will have a new key 56.5 % / recommend 43.5 %; - abandon a mandatory negative lissage in order to correct a so-called past negligence, because it is not based on an objective basis and threatens to seriously undermine public health in the southern part of the country." A second motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Laurette Onkelinx and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Mrs Véronique Caprasse, Laurette Onkelinx, Catherine Fonck, Barbara Pas, Muriel Gerkens and Mr Marco Van Hees and the response of the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, asks the government - to recognize, in accordance with the information contained in the dynamic cadastre of the medical professions of 2015, the announced shortage of certain medical specialties and, in particular, the shortage of general practitioners in the south of the country; - follow the opinion of the Planning Commission on the key to the allocation of INAMI quotas, namely 56.5% for Flanders and 43.5% for the Wallonia-Brussels Federation; - to find quickly, in consultation with the Communities, a solution for all students undergoing training so that all have an INAMI number; - if a negative smoothing proves necessary, whether it is based on dynamic cadastre data, whether it takes into account the announced shortage of certain medical specialties and whether it takes into account a threshold of viability sufficient for all faculties in the country." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Laurette Onkelinx and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mrs Véronique Caprasse, Laurette Onkelinx, Catherine Fonck, Barbara Pas, Muriel Gerkens and Mr Marco Van Hees and the reply of the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, asks the government - recognise, in accordance with the information contained in the dynamic register of healthcare professions of 2015, that there is a imminent shortage of certain specialists and that there is a shortage of general practitioners in the South of the country; - follow the Planning Committee's opinion on the distribution key for the RIZIV quotas, i.e. 56.5 % for Flanders and 43.5 % for the Fédération Wallonie-Bruxelles; - to find, in consultation with the Communities, a solution in the short term for all students in training and to ensure that they are all given a RIZIV number; - to base any necessary negative listing on the data of the dynamic land register, taking into account the predicted shortage of certain specialists and taking into account a sufficient standard of living for all faculties of the country." A third motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Mrs Véronique Caprasse, Laurette Onkelinx, Catherine Fonck, Barbara Pas, Muriel Gerkens and Mr Marco Van Hees and the response of the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, asks the government - to validate the work of the Planning Commission and the objective and scientifically substantiated proposal for the allocation of INAMI numbers between the Communities; - to negotiate with the Communities in order to find a comprehensive agreement including - the guarantee of an INAMI number to each graduate - a first-year examination with optional preparation; - examine the way in which INAMI numbers are granted to European doctors under the free movement of diplomas, in order to ensure the mastery of a national language and the quality of healthcare." A third motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mrs Véronique Caprasse, Laurette Onkelinx, Catherine Fonck, Barbara Pas, Muriel Gerkens and Mr Marco Van Hees and the reply of the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, calls on the Government - confirm the work of the Planning Committee and the objective and scientifically substantiated proposal for a distribution of the RIZIV numbers between the Communities; - to negotiate an overall agreement with the Communities; - on the guarantee of a RIZIV number for each graduate doctor - on an entrance examination in the first year with optional preparation, - examine how the RIZIV numbers are allocated to European doctors in the name of the free movement of diplomas in order to ensure that the persons concerned master one of the national languages and that the quality of care is safeguarded." A fourth motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms Muriel Gerkens and Ms Anne Dedry and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Mrs Véronique Caprasse, Laurette Onkelinx, Catherine Fonck, Barbara Pas, Muriel Gerkens and Mr Marco Van Hees and the response of the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, asks the government - to organise the assessment of the needs for the provision of care by care pool in collaboration with the health actors in that territory and in complementarity with the Planning Commission; - planning the territorial installation of new doctors; - to harmonise the remuneration of doctors in the various specializations so as not to transform the practice of medicine into a competitive market." A fourth motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Muriel Gerkens and Mrs Anne Dedry and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mrs Véronique Caprasse, Laurette Onkelinx, Catherine Fonck, Barbara Pas, Muriel Gerkens and Mr Marco Van Hees and the reply of the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, calls on the Government - evaluate the need for care per care region in cooperation with the health care actors in that region and as a complement to the work of the Planning Committee; - planning the establishment of new doctors in the territory; - to harmonize the fees of the various specialists so that the practice of medicine would not be mercantilized." A fifth motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Marco Van Hees and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Mrs Véronique Caprasse, Laurette Onkelinx, Catherine Fonck, Barbara Pas, Muriel Gerkens and Mr Marco Van Hees and the response of the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, - in view of the most recent forecasts by the Planning Commission, according to which the number of doctors, in full-time equivalents per 10,000 inhabitants, falls from 2037 to 7.94 in Flanders and 5.09 in Wallonia, whereas a region is considered to be ‘under the medical poverty line' to less than 9 doctors per 10,000 inhabitants; - in view of the fact that, for certain specialized medical professions, such as emergency medicine, psychiatry or geriatrics, the situation is alarming; Whereas the current system of medical quotas has no scientific basis; Whereas it is high time, instead of discouraging motivated students from studying medicine, to promote and encourage access to these professions; asks the government - urgently establish a dynamic and reliable cadastre for medical planning and management, the basis of which must be an analysis of the health needs of the population; - pending this framework, suspend the current system of physician quotas." A fifth motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Marco Van Hees and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mrs Véronique Caprasse, Laurette Onkelinx, Catherine Fonck, Barbara Pas, Muriel Gerkens and Mr Marco Van Hees and the reply of the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, - in view of the most recent forecasts of the Planning Committee, the number of full-time equivalent general practitioners per 10 000 inhabitants would fall to 7.94 in Flanders and 5.09 in Wallonia by 2037. This although a region is considered to be a household doctor's arm for less than 9 general practitioners per 10 000 inhabitants; - having regard to the fact that the situation is alarming for certain specialised health professions, such as emergency medicine, psychiatrists and geriatrics; - whereas the current system of quotas in medicine has no scientific basis; - whereas it is high time to stop motivated students from studying medicine, promoting and encouraging access to these professions; calls on the Government - to make urgent efforts to create a dynamic and reliable register for proper medical planning and management, which must be based on an analysis of the public's needs for care; - temporarily suspend the current system of medical quotas pending the establishment of this framework.' A simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Patrick Dewael, Denis Ducarme, Dirk Janssens, Servais Verherstraeten et Peter De Roover. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Patrick Dewael, Mr Denis Ducarme, Mr Dirk Janssens, Mr Servais Verherstraeten and Mr Peter De Roover. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-29-54-plenair-ip127x.u161	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 6 October 2016. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 6 October 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 6 October 2016 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 6 October 2016, at 2.15 p.m.
