ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u1	Mr President, Minister, I was able to read the report of the Foreign Affairs Council held on 18 April. You and your European colleagues had an exchange of views with the Colombian High Commissioner for Peace Jaramillo. It would appear that, during this exchange, Mr Jaramillo did not hide that, for the situation to change, several major challenges would have to be faced, including the need for visible results on the ground for the population (including peasants deprived of land, for example) or the building of a consensus among the population in favour of peace. I would like to put the report of this Council in parallel with my statement to the House at the time of the agreement to the Trade Agreement between the European Union and Colombia and Peru, as well as the report on the trade treaties that you recently delivered to our House, a report which, admittedly, is essentially quantitative and informative without drawing any real political conclusions. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. 1. Overall, when adopting this trade agreement, which was widely criticized by civil society in the countries concerned, I asked you what sanctions or other mechanisms you intended to implement if the report should clearly highlight gross violations of social or environmental clauses in a given country. This report is now being finalized. On the basis of this, for which countries are such activations of clauses - and hence possible sanctions - envisaged? 2. On the basis of this report, what are the political conclusions and adjustments that you intend to take in the coming months with regard to trade treaties, in particular in the context of the preparation of your Business and Human Rights Plan? 3. With regard specifically to Colombia, the report states on page 11 that the Colombia-Peru Agreement "could also contribute to the improvement of human rights in the country". What are the elements that allow you to draw such conclusions as tensions and violence, particularly against trade unionists, human rights defenders and peasant organizations, continue? Beyond this violence and the agreement with the FARC, is the question of paramilitaries raised in the framework of the reforms promised by President Santos? 4. During this exchange of views in the Council, you discussed with your colleagues the areas in which the European Union can provide support to the peace process. Can you tell me what these European paths are and what the Belgian contribution will be in this context? 5. Finally, since May, several human rights violations have taken place against Afro-Colombian indigenous peoples and peasant communities. Killings have also been carried out in the context of national demonstrations calling for measures in favour of the agricultural sector. This rise in violence is extremely worrying. Could you possibly tell us more?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u2	Mr President, Mrs Grovonius, to my knowledge, the European Trade Treaty with Colombia and Peru is not widely criticized by civil society in the countries concerned, on the contrary. This trade treaty, which is not an investment treaty, offers opportunities for socio-economic progress to developing Andean countries. Moreover, peace negotiations with rebel groups offer a concrete prospect of improving human rights. That is why the European Commission and the Member States are not asking at all for the suspension of this agreement but for its ratification by all parties. Only Belgium, Greece and Austria have yet to finalize their ratification procedures, and as far as we are concerned, in part before some parliaments. For a list where the European Union has had to activate sanctions for serious and systematic violations of human rights, I refer you to the website of the European External Action Service, which covers all these countries. The announced objective of this new form of annual reporting that we have set up in Belgium was to structure the trade policy debate. Given the complexity of the matter and the fact that each country's situation knows its specificities, it seems premature to draw general political conclusions after the publication of an initial analysis focusing on a particular region. That will not prevent us from using certain elements of the report to feed into European discussions on the subject of new arguments, and that is my intention. As written in the report, the agreement contains important provisions on the protection of human rights, the rule of law, good governance and commitments to effectively implement international conventions on workers' rights and environmental protection. The momentum is positive for the moment and the progress is undeniable. This positive trend is recognised at international level, as illustrated by recent reports by the International Labour Organisation and the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights Since the adoption of the Justice and Peace Act in 2005, which has allowed the demobilization of paramilitaries, the Colombian government has considered these groups as criminal gangs under criminal justice. President Santos has just announced new measures to dismantle these criminal gangs by excluding any political treatment of this issue. These measures consist mainly in the strengthening of the police, military and intelligence forces to combat these criminal gangs. A European Trust Fund to support Colombia in the implementation of the peace agreements will be established as soon as a peace agreement is signed in Havana. The Trust Fund will support socio-economic projects such as rural development, mine clearance, support to local justice systems and education in areas most affected by conflict. Belgium does not intend to contribute to this fund other than through the European Union. On the other hand, it continues to support NGOs that contribute to redressing the damage caused by the conflict. I hope, moreover, that, in the light of the positive developments observed by several international organisations, minds will evolve to allow progress to be made in the ratification of these agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answer. The problem is that we were already not quite on the same wavelength with regard to the report that would potentially be submitted to this committee. It is true that I expected specific findings, in particular on human rights developments. For me, this is an important element that could be demonstrated, calculated with relevant indicators, and that is not the case. We only have quantitative information, but not much on this aspect. It is difficult to assess the real impact, apart from information of the kind: an increase in the percentage of exports or imports. It is difficult to have an informed opinion on the possible impact of this agreement on respect for human rights. Now, that's what I thought we were going to receive. That's what I can't find. This, of course, prevents the identification of a problem at any given point in time and the possibility of possible revisions to the agreement, or even sanctions, following problems that could be pointed out. I hope that the reports that we will receive in the future will take this more into account, because it is important for me, but also for many civil society players who, whatever you say, are not as enthusiastic about this agreement at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u4	Minister, I would like to ask you about your recent visit to Angola. Angola is experiencing significant economic problems as an exceptional request for assistance of $700,000 has been made to the IMF for the next three years. Despite its difficulties, Angola remains an important power in the region, especially since Angola is currently chairing the International Conference on the Great Lakes Region (ICRL) and occupies a non-permanent seat on the Security Council. I imagine you were able to discuss the situation in Central Africa with the various interlocutors you met. I am thinking mainly of the DRC and Burundi. Can you give us details of the various actors you have met in Angola, the content of these different interviews and the vision of your interlocutors on the current crisis in Burundi and the DRC?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u5	Mr President, during my visit to Angola on Sunday 24 and Monday 25 April, I had many high-level contacts. First on a political level, I met President dos Santos, my counterpart, Foreign Minister Chikoti, and the Minister of Geology and Mines, Mr Queiroz. I also had a meeting with political and economic leaders in the diamond sector, among which, in addition to Minister Queiroz, CEO Sumbula of the public company Endiama, which plays a key role in this sector. On the evening of my arrival, I had contact with representatives of Belgian companies active in Angola, which allowed me to take note of their experiences and concerns in order to discuss them in my official contacts the next day. I must acknowledge that all these contacts took place in a very constructive and pleasant atmosphere, which confirms the excellent relations between our two countries. At the bilateral level, the main theme of the interview concerned economic relations, in particular with a view to strengthening cooperation in the diamond sector, promoting the interest of Belgian firms in engaging in certain sectors in Angola and pointing out the difficulties faced by Belgian firms operating in that country. At the international level, the interview focused on our common concern for development in the DRC and Burundi. As you know, this item has already been discussed in detail, also thanks to your participation during the current affairs debate in the House's Committee on External Relations on 11 May, following my visit to the DRC and Angola. This country bordering the DRC, with a common border of about 2,500 kilometres, is a very important regional actor who currently chairs the International Conference on the Great Lakes Region (ICRL) and is a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council. For Angola, stability in the DRC is paramount. As I explained in the current debate, the Angolan authorities share our concerns but have chosen a more proactive attitude. With regard to the Burundian situation, on the other hand, my Angolan interlocutors support the need to find a political solution through a genuine dialogue between the authorities and the opposition. They also believe that a solution in Burundi also requires a positive commitment from Rwanda. I then went to Tanzania and Rwanda and had the opportunity to ask the Rwandan authorities to play this positive role. Since then, I have also had the opportunity, returning from Kigali, to receive representatives of the Burundian opposition present in Brussels and to meet with the facilitator appointed by the East African Community. In this context, former Tanzanian President Benjamin Mkapa had the opportunity to explain to me - this time during his visit to his country - how he envisaged the continuation of the debates; the problem is first of all to know who is involved in a future dialogue and, of course, to define the framework within which a political solution can be imagined. In the wake of my meeting with the opposition representatives, I also saw the Burundian Foreign Minister, who was also present in Brussels. We will continue the work in this direction. I take the opportunity of your question to give the following details of the visits to Tanzania and Rwanda and the discussions held in Brussels. I have also just said a word to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Ban Ki-moon, more specifically on the situation in Burundi. I have also addressed the human rights situation, particularly in view of the fate of the so-called "15 + 2" activists we have already had the opportunity to talk about, and I have stressed the importance of continuing the dialogue on human rights. I would also like to add that there is clearly a willingness on the part of President dos Santos to play an influential role in the region, but I repeat, sometimes with a different level of commitment depending on the state of play of the debate. In the DRC, we are still in a discussion about the launch of electoral operations. It is clear that the commitment is even stronger in Burundi, where unfortunately the situation is much worse and where efforts are common to try to reconnect the threads of dialogue, which I have tried to do during the various visits and very recently in Brussels. I hope we will see the lines between the president, the majority and the various oppositions moving a little. I conclude by telling you, it's interesting, that the facilitator, former President Mkapa, is determined to meet everyone and he does. There is no clear opposition, including from the authorities, to him actually meeting all the actors in this conflict.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u6	Minister, thank you for that answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u7	Mr President, Minister, I shall cut my question a little short. I have four questions. Firstly, do you support the view expressed by some of your fellow Members, namely that CETA can enter into force on a provisional basis after signature and without the consent of the European Parliament or the competent national parliaments? Secondly, do you confirm the exception in terms of investment protection, namely that even if the Treaty is not ratified, investors can still enjoy their privilege for three years? Thirdly, do you not think that, given that under the investment protection system, as included in CETA, foreign investors can sue our country's national and sub-state regulations, this provisional entry into force makes the regulations of those parliaments vulnerable to investment disputes without any prior parliamentary approval of CETA? Do you think this is evidence of a democratic way of working? Fourthly, in view of the fact that US companies, through their Canadian subsidiaries, can make use of that investment protection, included in CETA, the situation of immediate provisional entry into force is not a preliminaries to the currently negotiating trade and investment agreement with the United States of America, even if CETA and TTIP are ultimately voted on by parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u8	Mr Minister, Wallonia and the Wallonia-Brussels Federation have announced that they will refuse the delegation of power to the federal government for the signing of the CETA, because this text presented as the final, to be taken or left, does not offer the necessary guarantees for democracy and the ability to legislate to protect the rights of citizens to be preserved. This announcement is in addition to increasingly strong positions on the dangers of TTIP and CETA throughout Europe: in France, Austria, Slovenia, Romania, Poland, to name but a few. A discussion on CETA was held at the Council of Trade Ministers in Brussels on 13 May. The signing of the CETA is announced for the month of October. The decision of the Council of the European Union to authorise signature by the European Union was discussed at the Council of Trade Ministers of the European Union on 22 and 23 May, but clearly without agreement, given the problem of the mixed or non-mixed nature of this Treaty. As it stands, the signing of CETA could not take place because of the veto of Wallonia and the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. However, your statements in the press do not imply that you take full measure of the signal given by these two federated entities. Minister, what position did you stand on May 13? Let me turn to the second question. At the beginning of June, the Luxembourg parliamentarians voted on a motion calling on their government to oppose any attempt to qualify CETA as a non-mixed agreement. Under this scheme, the agreement should therefore be submitted to the 28 national parliaments for ratification before fully entering into force. France and the Netherlands, with certain nuances, also seem to favour the non-mixed nature of the Treaty. Minister, how does Belgium intend to position itself at the next Council? What will she argue in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u9	Mr President, as Mrs Grovonius said, according to the edition of the newspaper L'Echo of 6 June, the legal service of the European Commission has drawn up a note in which it considers that CETA can be considered as non-mixed, which would mean that the national parliaments would not have to vote for the ratification of this draft Treaty. It is in the first week of July that the Member States will decide. According to an article on the information website Vice, several Member States would support a non-mixed agreement: the United Kingdom, Finland, Estonia, Spain, Sweden, Portugal, Lithuania and Cyprus. Other members of the Council could abstain, in order to allow ratification of the Treaty by the European Parliament alone. This information falls at a time when the Dutch and Luxembourg parliaments have just voted critical resolutions on this Treaty, in the same way as those voted recently in the Walloon Parliament and in the Parliament of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. These initiatives suggest significant difficulties in the future process of national ratification. My three questions, Minister, stem from the foregoing. Could you clarify to me what position Belgium will defend at the Council meeting, scheduled for the beginning of July after L'Echo, in order to establish whether or not the Treaty between the European Union and Canada is mixed? Will you take into account the resolution voted in the Walloon Parliament on 27 April to build the future Belgian position defended at the beginning of July? Finally, has the FPS Foreign Affairs drafted a legal note on the mixed or non-mixed nature of the CETA project? If you are unable to do so, can you tell us what position your services have on this matter? We know that the expertise in treaty matters is very great in your services.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u10	I note that Mr Hedebouw is not present to ask his question No 12407.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to refer you to my answer of 28 April to the questions put by Messrs. Luykx, Miller and Hellings on the procedure for the draft CETA Treaty and on the agenda of the Foreign Affairs and Trade Council of 13 May. The latter did not provide for a decision, but merely a summary of the case. On this occasion, 23 ministers, i.e. all those who spoke on this point, confirmed their country's full support for CETA, including Minister Ploumen and Minister Asselborn, respectively, for the Netherlands and Luxembourg. With regard to the positions of the parliaments of the Walloon Region, the Wallonia-Brussels Federation and the COCOF Assembly on the final text, I take note of the points you mention. I also note that since 2009, the governments of the federated entities have been informed and have had the opportunity to express themselves on the substance of the case, within the appropriate intra-Belgian coordination bodies. No fundamental objections were raised throughout this period. Nothing prevents us from intervening later. On a proposal from the Commission, the Council will adopt a decision to sign and then approve the agreement. Also on the basis of the Commission's proposal, the Council should consider the nature of the agreement under discussion, either limited to EU competences or of a mixed nature with both European and national competences. Regardless of the Commission's proposal, and as Commissioner Malmström himself reminded us on 13 May, the Council has the last word on the nature of the agreement. In the meantime, the Commission has indicated that it will not forward its draft decision to the Council for signature until early July. If we are in possession of these texts, my services will organise the usual coordination meeting to determine the Belgian position on all parts of this dossier. This coordination will build on the ongoing intra-Belgian consultations conducted by my services since the adoption in 2009 of the initial negotiating mandate. On this occasion, everything will be discussed in this intra-Belgian discussion, including the mixed or non-mixed nature of the agreement. It is therefore at that time that I can give you an assessment of the position taken by Belgium. I am too respectful of intra-Belgian coordination to give you a position before it is decided. In the case of mixed conventions, the Council may consider the application of parts of the Convention with a view to the economic bridging of the ratification process, which may sometimes take several years. The procedure for the provisional application of international agreements is laid down in Article 218 (5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. As is the case, for example, for the Free Trade Agreement with South Korea, provisional application by the Council is limited to parts of exclusive EU competence. On top of that, the provisional application will only be considered politically after the European Parliament has given its assent. The parts of the agreement which fall within the competence of the Member States shall enter into force only after ratification by all national parliaments. Article 30 (8) of the Chapter on Final Provisions of the draft CETA does indeed provide that investors may benefit from investment provisions of the Agreement for up to three years if a government adopts a discriminatory measure during the period of entry into force, even if CETA is not ratified. This is not a privilege for investors, but it is a question of providing the legal certainty also necessary for Belgian and European investors. Investments are made for the longer term and economic operators need certainty in this context in order to protect themselves against any unlawful discriminatory measures only during the period of provisional application of the agreement. A Canadian subsidiary of an American company could only use the provisions of the Investment Court System under CETA provided that, first, it is a subsidiary having a substantial economic activity in Europe and, second, it is disproportionately endorsed by a measure of the European Union or a Member State. If one of the Parties, the EU or Canada, wishes to declare its intention to terminate the provisional application of the Agreement, it will be effectively discontinued 180 days after notification. Both parties would then no longer be bound by the terms of the Convention and thus each would retain the last word. It is obviously not my practice to comment on the motions adopted in parliaments of other Member States of the European Union. But since several members, whether in writing – like Mr Hedebouw – or orally, Mr Hellings, insist on the motion of their Luxembourg colleagues, we must obviously quote it exactly. Firstly, I note that this motion does not invite the Luxembourg Government to reject CETA. Secondly, I note that it explicitly confirms, on the contrary, the improvement of the investment protection mechanism and that what is required for the impartiality of judges is already explicitly reflected in the draft Treaty, in its Article 8.30. Thirdly, I note that, far from being referred to as a "democratic coup d'état", the provisional application of CETA is only conditional on the prior vote of the European Parliament, as I have just reminded some members of the committee. I would point out – but you can have a different opinion on the subject – that I consider the European Parliament to be a democratic institution. But I can understand that when the European Parliament speaks, it is clearly not, for some members of the committee, of any kind of democratic importance. This is not quite my analysis of the role of this institution. That, Mr President, is what I can tell you today, by confirming that I still had Commissioner Cecilia Malmström on the phone this morning and that she confirmed to me that she would most probably come on 5 July with a Commission proposal. We will therefore prepare for this meeting on 5 July in an intra-Belgian coordination.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u12	Mr President, Minister, I am only pleased with your statement that the provisional entry into force is linked to the approval of a parliament, particularly for the European part the European Parliament and for any national parts of the CETA Convention following the approval of the relevant national parliaments. I am surprised that investment protection can apply without any parliament having approved it. I'll have that checked out. As an argument, you argue the legal certainty for investors. Well, in my view, the democratic argument puts the emphasis on the principle of the legal certainty of investors. However, I would like to have people who are better at home in European legislation than I am.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u13	Minister, thank you for your answers. Twenty-three ministers supported CETA, but there are still five who have not done so. From how many states is there a blockage majority? On the other hand, I understand that you are leaving room for intra-Belgian negotiation and coordination, but I imagine that at these meetings the federal government will have a position. It would be interesting if we could get to know her and what he is going to discuss with his colleagues in the federated entities, even if that does not mean that this will be the position ultimately defended. I would have liked to hear from you about what you will be defending at these meetings as Minister of the Federal Government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u14	Mr Minister, the question is whether the Commission could, by means of a loophole, ensure that the CETA is not mixed. There is no doubt that the CETA text exists, it has been negotiated, it must now be signed and ratified. CETA deals with matters which go beyond the mere subjects managed exclusively by the European Union, the Commission or the Parliament or the Council. I agree with you that the European Parliament is a democratic institution and I very much hope that CETA, such as TTIP and TISA, will be rejected when they are presented for ratification before the European Parliament. Nevertheless, the powers covered by CETA are the responsibility of our Regions, our Communities and our Federal State, and it is therefore natural that our parliaments should be able to give a democratic opinion on the question of CETA. Compared to intra-Belgian coordination, you said that at no time, no government, etc. Take back the documents of the preparation of the Foreign Affairs Council of 8 May 2014, a meeting of the DGE 05 that took place on 7 May 2014, and you will read very clearly that, in relation to the TTIP – but the CETA was also addressed – the Walloon government, by the voice of its environmental representatives at the time, marked its very clear disapproval of the ongoing negotiations. You cannot therefore say that the federated entities, given the tenuous nature of the information available to them, did not object at that time to this free trade treaty.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u15	I assume the answer will be forwarded to Mr. Hedebouw.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u16	Mr President, I know that Parliament has the last word, but I would still like to say two or three things. There is no problem with the remarks made by a government component on the TTIP, but there is still a nuance between this and a government's position on CETA. These are two different things. Go read it again and you'll see how it all was written. Having said that, I can understand that sometimes there are divisions within a government,... at another level of power, of course. At the federal level, this cannot happen! Then I can confirm to you, Mrs Grovonius, that since 2009, the position of the federal government – and there have been several – has not changed: we support CETA. We first supported the negotiating mandate,...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u17	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u18	You asked me for the position of the federal government and I'll answer you. In 2009, the federal government agreed to the negotiating mandate. And since then, we have consistently supported this negotiation. And we support the outcome of the negotiations. There is therefore no doubt about the federal government's position, although governments have varied and experienced different compositions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u19	That wasn't my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u20	No, but you're asking me what the government's position is going to be.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u21	On the mix.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u22	Before deciding on the form, it is still good to have an opinion on the substance. Having had the opportunity to work with several successive prime ministers, I have not changed my mind throughout this period. I therefore continue to support what these various prime ministers have also supported at the European Council, i.e. a position in favour of CETA. Now, everyone is free to change their opinion depending on whether they are in the majority or in the opposition. I, for my part, confirm the position of the federal government. For the rest, I replied that we would talk about the procedure when the Commission presented its proposal. As for the type of majority, everything will depend on the procedure. The type of majority may vary depending on the way in which the Commission proposes. We will therefore wait for this moment to react. That's all I can tell you right now about it. We will of course come back to that as soon as the Commission has presented its proposal to the Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u23	Parliament having the last word, Mr. Does Van der Maelen want to add anything? No. Mrs Grovonius, would you like to speak again?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u24	Mr President, I note that the minister is not answering the questions asked of him. I regret that, of course. I would like to add a clarification for the record. When I referred earlier to France and the Netherlands, of course, it was because they had declared that they were in favour of the mixed nature of the Treaty, not its non-mixed nature. My tongue broke in.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u25	The introduction of free trade treaties such as CETA, TTIP and TISA demonstrates that the functioning of the CEO is likely to need to be reworked. When we read the report on the initiatives taken by the FPS Foreign Affairs with regard to federated entities, and when they are concerned with these matters, we realize that it is extremely succinct. At intra-Belgian consultation meetings, federated entities can only intervene on the basis of information they receive elsewhere. And it is, moreover, according to the latter, who stress the inconvenient nature of the TTIP in negotiation, that they have been able to react internally. So there's a question. However, a federated entity may show disapproval. This was the case, with the results, albeit modest, that we know, since this did not prevent you from continuing to defend your point of view, which was also – you are right – that of the Di Rupo government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u26	Mr Minister, on Friday 13 May the European Council of Trade Ministers mandated the Netherlands, which holds the rotating presidency of the European Council, to return to negotiate with the European Parliament on the draft regulation to combat conflict minerals. As a reminder, exactly a year ago, the European Parliament adopted a draft regulation on this subject, aimed in particular at imposing on the whole chain the obligation of transparency on the sources of supply of conflict minerals. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. How has Belgium positioned itself - I should rather say the federal government to be sure of having an answer - in the context of these last negotiations? Under the Dutch presidency, could Belgium finally support Parliament's European regulation, as amended by Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u27	Mrs Grovonius, thank you for your interest in the proposal for a regulation on supply chains for importers of tin, tantalum, tungsten, ores and gold originating in conflict or high-risk areas. The aim of this proposal for a European regulation is to prevent companies from contributing to the financing of armed groups through their purchases of minerals from conflict or high-risk areas. This objective, particularly that of having as effective and universal an instrument as possible, is shared by the Belgian Government. On the basis of the trilateral negotiations with the European Parliament, the Dutch Presidency recently made a compromise proposal. This proposal is based on an import certification system, which is binding above certain thresholds. This compromise was discussed with the European Parliament in a trialogue on 11 May. The Presidency gave a detailed debriefing to the Council's Trade Working Group on 25 May. The Member States asked for a compromise proposal from the Presidency in the form of a document, to be precise in four columns, comparing this compromise with the original proposal of the European Commission in 2014, the proposed amendment of the European Parliament in 2015 and the general approach on which the Council had initially agreed. This item was not included for a formal discussion on the agenda of the Foreign Affairs and Trade Council on 13 May, but, at the preparatory coordination meeting with all the competent Belgian authorities, it was decided that Belgium would adopt a constructive attitude on the compromise of the Dutch Presidency and in support of its efforts to reach an agreement with the European Parliament. It is the same constructive attitude that Belgium defined for the next technical discussion, which took place yesterday. The Dutch Presidency and the Commission hope for a political agreement this week again. June 16 is referred to as the date of a possible agreement. There is therefore a window of opportunity on this issue and Belgium will closely follow the continuation of the process with the hope of finding an agreement. In coordination with the competent Belgian authorities, it was agreed to revert to this dossier once the final text was available, in particular on the definition of thresholds, which is part of the work still under way. Our final position will remain guided by the strategic objective of this regulation, namely to effectively cut off the financing of violence through the sale of minerals.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u28	Minister, thank you for these points of answer. I repeat that it is important to support the position of the European Parliament and its draft regulation. I hear that you support it and that Belgium defends the Dutch compromise that is on the table today. I am not sure that it will lead to a very effective system for tracing these minerals. I therefore urge you to support much more intensively the elements of the draft regulation adopted by the European Parliament, because without these elements, namely traceability throughout the chain, not all the mechanisms implemented will make it possible to change much on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u29	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, Venezuela is currently facing a serious economic, political and social crisis. As a result, President Nicolas Maduro has to deal with the growing dissatisfaction of a large majority of the population. In fact, two thirds of the votes in the polls were attributed to his dismissal. The opposition, which brings together all the democratic forces represented in our parliament, had managed to secure 1.8 million signatures at the beginning of May, in just a few days, in order to organise a referendum to revoke it, but the government refused to hold this referendum. My question is dated 17 May. On the contrary, the President chose to take a further step towards authoritarianism by declaring the state of emergency and economic urgency. He announced military manoeuvres to confront what he denounces as an external threat, referring to the United States, which he believes justifies the state of emergency. Local citizens' committees have oversight and law enforcement powers to ensure the security and sovereignty of the country. This makes me furiously think of security in Romania. Some experts therefore denounce restrictions on individual freedoms and point to the risk of civil confrontation. It must be said that the country is sinking into chaos. Both Chavist and anti-chavist demonstrations followed, while the situation faced by Venezuelans was fuelling tensions: daily power cuts were currently taking place to save energy, looting shops, protests and lynchings. The public services are operational only two days a week, and without a strike. These difficult circumstances are of course the result of the economic collapse of the country, a major oil producer, following the fall in crude oil prices, but not only. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, do you think that the Venezuelan government can be overthrown by a popular insurrection, that there is an ever-increasing pressure to face the delaying manoeuvres, as King Baudouin of the President would have said? Can you tell us more about the current situation according to your sources? What steps could be taken by the United Nations in the near future? What is the European position on this subject? Just a few days ago, we know that the president of the new Spanish Liberal Party, Ciudadanos, visited Venezuela personally? What is the state of our diplomatic relations with the government in place? Does Europe plan to put pressure on the Venezuelan government? If so, how and what are the expectations? Have any measures already been taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u30	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, as my colleague Jean-Jacques Flahaux has just mentioned, the situation in Venezuela is worrying. Indeed, demonstrations are growing in the face of the current shortage of food. The Venezuelan Social Conflict Observatory counted 254 lootings or attempts during the first five months of the year and, in May alone, 172 demonstrations against food shortages. Between January and May, the country witnessed 2,779 demonstrations related to the various shortages or shortcomings of public services, as the crisis also affected the medical sector. Moreover, as my colleague said, the Venezuelan opposition has obtained a green light from the electoral authorities for the holding of a referendum to remove the head of State, the first step in a long process that can lead to new elections. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, what is your particular view of the humanitarian situation in this country? What are the solutions envisaged by the international community in general and by Belgium in particular to help Venezuela out of an increasingly serious economic, political and, above all, humanitarian crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in Venezuela and the impact of the popular protest on the stability of the government remain unpredictable. On the one hand, a stable core of about 20% of the population supports President Maduro. On the other hand, the popular discontent of the opposition is channeled and hindered; the opposition can no longer demonstrate in the city centre and the police and the Guardia Nacional keep demonstrations and demonstrations under control. Today, everything revolves around the timing of the revocative referendum with which the opposition wishes to provoke new presidential elections. The election commission must now verify the 1.8 million signatures before authorizing this referendum, but this process seems to be delayed, according to the opposition, perhaps until 2017. If, then, the revocation is obtained in 2017, after the first two years of the presidential term, there would be no new elections but it would be the current Vice-President, Mr Istúriz, who would become interim President until the date of the elections scheduled for 2019. Since the internal situation does not constitute a threat to regional security, the humanitarian situation and human rights in Venezuela are on the UN agenda. The European Union is limited in its ability to provide humanitarian assistance. There can be no great humanitarian mission as long as the Venezuelan government does not agree to it. The European Union and a large majority of international partners call on President Maduro to let Parliament play its role. On 10 May, the High Representative, Federica Mogherini, stressed in a statement to Parliament that only dialogue and cooperation between Venezuelan institutions could end the crisis and serve the real interests of the people. On 8 June, it stressed the European Union's willingness to support and support ongoing mediation efforts. Diplomatic relations between Belgium and Venezuela have traditionally been good but have slowed down in recent years. As part of the restructuring of our diplomatic network, we have reduced the diplomatic mission in Caracas to a diplomatic office. As far as the humanitarian situation is concerned, it remains painful. Domestic food production accounts for about 30 per cent of requirements. The situation of national production of drugs and medical care products is still at a lower level. At the same time, the government is pursuing a strict import restriction policy. Recently, the government invented its own food and drug distribution system. Local distribution and production centres (LCPs) do not produce much and the little they can distribute only happens to a relatively small portion of the population, in addition to the assets in the essentially chaviste movement. Nature and medical care are becoming increasingly inaccessible to a large part of the population, not only because of a lack of production and imports, which cause a shortage, but also because of hyper-inflation, which causes a constant rise in prices, not offset by a real increase in wages. The Chavist government is not changing its economic and social policy at the moment, and this increasingly precarious humanitarian situation should not improve. The solutions envisaged by the international community to assist Venezuela in this crisis remain seriously undermined by the fact that the Venezuelan Government does not want to admit that the country is experiencing a humanitarian crisis. He believes that he is able to solve the problems facing the country himself. It therefore makes no use of humanitarian aid, and in any case, not on a large scale, by making appeals, for example, to the specialised agencies of the United Nations or to the European Union's ECHO Agency. Following his recent request, he received assistance from the Chinese government and could hope the same of some countries supposedly friends of the Third World. But that would be little to meet the needs. The National Assembly of Venezuela has made an urgent appeal for international and regional humanitarian assistance, but as long as the government does not follow this line, nothing can be done. This does not mean that nothing is done. A little humanitarian aid is beginning to arrive via NGOs (Croix-Rouge, Caritas) but on too low a scale and without solving the root of the problem, i.e., it seems to me, the failure of the economic and social policy of the Chaviste government. Except through some indirect aid, with Médecins sans frontières, for example, Belgium and Spain are active in Venezuela. But we are tied feet and fists, just like the European Union and the rest of the world. I hope that the government will change its attitude to allow for more humanitarian support.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u32	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is very depressing and particularly frustrating to see what is happening there, especially since, even if the country is not in Europe, its population is mostly of European origin – the name of this country refers specifically to Venice. I note that the electoral campaign that is currently taking place in Spain has a very important Venezuelan connotation. An article appeared in Le Monde or Libération – I believe – whose title was "Spain: capital Caracas", because Podemos had advisers in the Chaviste government. Beyond these Spanish adventures, there is now a drama. People can no longer know how to feed themselves in a Western country. It's dramatic.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u33	Mr President, we do not really see what the outcome of the problem will be because, on the one hand, there is no political solution and, on the other hand, the solution will not come from Spain, although this rapprochement could have been achieved. If the government does not accept negotiation and does not allow humanitarian aid to enter, there is a risk of progressing towards implosion of the country, given the discontent of the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u34	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Cassart-Mailleux's 11701 and 11845 were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u35	Mr President, Minister, on 16 December 2015, we were exchanging in this committee about an important judgment of the European Court of Justice annulling a trade agreement between the European Union and Morocco since 2012. The European Court's decision was based on the failure to take into account, at the conclusion of this Treaty, its impact on respect for the fundamental rights of the peoples of Western Sahara occupied by Morocco today. In the meantime, I have learned that on 28 April 2016, the Belgian Government joined other European Union states in "intervention in support of the Council's conclusions". This initiative is particularly unexpected. Minister, could you please explain to me the political and diplomatic reasons that guide our State's intervention in the Court of Justice of the European Union? What are the possible Belgian economic interests in this context? France, Spain, Portugal and Germany also joined the intervention. Has Belgian legal action been prepared with these four States? Does this legal action involve costs for legal advice which the State will not fail to appeal in this case? If so, how high are you assessing them?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u36	Mijnheer de voorzitter, Mr Hellings, on 10 December 2015, the Court of the European Union annulled Council Decision 2012/497 of 8 March 2012 concerning the conclusion of the trade agreement between the European Union and Morocco since 2012. On 15 December 2015, the Foreign Ministers of the Member States of the Union unanimously decided, in record time, to exercise the appeal and to request a stay of the execution of the judgment of the Court. They instructed the Council's legal service to lodge an appeal with the Court and to take precautionary measures to maintain legal certainty as to the effects of that judgment. Together with a few other Member States of the European Union, Belgium has submitted a request for intervention in support of the Council in the appeal to mark its commitment to the broad and strong partnership between Morocco and the European Union, an important contractual element of which is called into question on the basis of legal reasoning which it considers incorrect. This legal challenge to the above-mentioned court's decision does not affect Belgium's consistent position on the political question of Western Sahara, which is to support a negotiated, lasting and mutually acceptable solution that respects the principle of self-determination. In this context, Belgium supports the negotiation process between the parties under the aegis of the United Nations and the work of the personal envoy of the Secretary-General of the United Nations. Contacts with the other European countries you mention have taken place as part of the preparation of the intervention. Finally, Belgium's intervention at the Court of Justice of the European Union does not involve any costs. Belgium is indeed represented by government officials before the Court, who are officials of the Directorate-General for Legal Affairs of my administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u37	Mr Minister, let the European Commission go on appeal, that is! It is quite normal for her to defend a text that she herself has negotiated. But what the federal government – and therefore Belgium – is going to do in this case, I understand it much less. That legal reasoning is contested by the Commission is one thing, but that Belgium should support it is not helpful. At least it doesn't cost anything; you said it. I'm going back to the bottom of the case. Since a Court as respected as the Court of Justice of the European Union challenges a trade agreement on the grounds that people living in occupied territory are not respected, there is the question of the economic agreement between the European Union and Israel. And we know that it has an impact. I would not want this important judgment to be broken for reasons other than the case that we are looking at here. I think this is an important stop, which could have consequences elsewhere in the world. It would be gratifying to see that there is a legal means beyond the political and economic means to be used in the settlement of all colonizations in the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u38	Minister, the Congolese province of North Kivu has been the scene of killings and rapes for 20 years, while 20,000 Monusco peacekeepers are on site. Since October 2014, more than 1,000 people have been killed in this region. The murders in question are mainly carried out with the use of weapons and are the subject of a census by the United Nations and serious non-governmental organizations. While President Kabila has not yet expressed his views on this situation, Congolese society has recently sent him a six-page letter, a real indictment in which the inhabitants ask for an intervention by the army, but also to clean up within the same Congolese army. For the suspects are Ugandan and Rwandan rebels, but also, in these cases of mass rape, Congolese soldiers. The inhabitants threaten not to pay taxes or taxes until the massacres cease. They even say they are ready to deforest the famous Virunga National Park, whose forests serve as a hiding place for killers and rapists. Minister, could you please give me a detailed account of the various bilateral and multilateral initiatives you have taken in order to make the Congolese authorities aware of Belgium's concern about these worrying security and humanitarian situations? Could you provide us with more up-to-date information on the situation on the ground according to our diplomatic posts in the region? Have our diplomatic representatives on the spot been put in contact with representatives of civil society denouncing these serious human rights violations? What are Belgium's diplomatic initiatives towards Uganda and Rwanda, responsible for the presence of soldiers of their own kind on Congolese soil?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u39	Mr Hellings, the security situation in the eastern part of the DRC remains precarious, resulting in large displacements and humanitarian needs. Since the beginning of the year, there have been more than a hundred victims who have fallen victim to the blows of ADF's white weapons. According to information from our embassy there, hundreds of civilians have reportedly left their homes to take refuge and about 10 schools in the affected villages have closed their doors or temporarily transferred their activities to a safe place. The latest event was a massacre on 3 May by an ADF (Alliance des Forces démocratiques) group of civilians in a village near Eringetti in North Kivu likely in retaliation for operations against them. The attack followed many similar incidents and was followed by other acts committed in North Kivu and Ituri by the ADF, but probably also by the FDLR (Forces démocratiques de libération du Rwanda), so that some 30 people, but estimates vary, would still have lost their lives in the days that followed. Belgium strongly condemns the resurgence of killings in North Kivu and precisely in the Beni territories by the continued attacks of armed groups and expresses its deepest condolences to the families and relatives of the innocent victims of these barbarous acts. During my visit to Kinshasa at the end of April, I urged the Congolese authorities as well as the Monusco to ensure, together, the protection of the civilian population. I called for an effective resumption of joint operations between FARDC and Monusco to neutralize the democratic liberation forces of Rwanda (ADF) and other armed groups. On Monday, 23 April, the Foreign Affairs Council also considered the situation in the DRC at the request of Belgium. In its conclusions, it also strongly condemned extreme violence and called for joint action by FARDC and Monusco. I therefore welcome the recent launch of a joint operation between Monusco and FARDC called Usalama against the ADF rebels in Beni. During this operation, Monusco conducted numerous air fire support and helicopter support missions in the area of operation, as well as evacuation missions for the injured. Monusco also transported more than two tons of rations to FARDC and participated directly in the field operation with its artillery and special forces. At least five known ADF positions were reportedly taken during this operation and many ADF fighters were neutralized. With regard to your question about the diplomatic initiatives taken by Belgium in respect of Uganda and Rwanda, which would be responsible for the presence of soldiers of their own faith on Congolese soil, there are indeed Ugandan militias in the case of ADF-Nalu and Rwandans in the case of FDLRs fighting on Congolese soil. However, according to our information, these rebels are not supported by Kampala or Kigali. On the contrary, there are synergies between the Ugandan army and FARDC precisely to fight the ADF-Nalu. For FDLR, it's more complicated. There have been joint operations by the Rwandan and Congolese armies to combat them in North Kivu, but the presence of the Rwandan army on Congolese territory no longer seems to be accepted by the Congolese government. However, the fight against these very mobile militias must also be conducted at the regional level. And, on the occasion of the various recent visits to the region, as I have recalled for the Congo and also for Rwanda, I have had the opportunity to return systematically to this situation and to the need to fight in a coordinated manner against these negative forces, as they are called, on the spot.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u40	Minister, the situation is dramatic. The census that you have just done enlightens us even more and enlightens this Parliament on a situation that will not improve in the short term. I congratulate the Minister and his services on the initiatives taken. Unfortunately, we can only be united, opposed and majority, in the observation of horror and also in the various diplomatic initiatives that seem very weak in the light of what is being experienced by the local population today but which are the only things that can be done today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u41	Minister, the question dates back to 19 May. Since then, a lot of developments have taken place on the ground. I would have liked to ask my question on that. Mr Moïse Katumbi was initially announced as an important opponent and opposition leader. Meanwhile, his position has become less prominent. On 19 May, he was arrested in Lubumbashi and the charge was that he committed infringements against the State's internal and external security, inter alia, by recruiting mercenaries. Second element of my question, meanwhile, the Congolese Constitutional Court confirmed on 11 May that Mr Kabila may remain in post, regardless of the expiry date of his mandate in November, if there are delays in the electoral process. A mere reading of Article 70 of the Constitution but also a confirmation of the present gratification strategy of Kabila. The situation remains complex. You met the opposition at the Egmont Palace last Friday. The opposition calls for a strengthening of the dialogue. Under the leadership of Tshisekedi, the new head of the opposition, they want to enter into these talks. I would have liked to ask the following questions. In the margins of those first interrogations with Katumbi, there has been several serious incidents, uprisings and incidents. Do you think it is possible that we go to a similar cleansing of opposition supporters as in the post-electoral scenario of 2007 between Kabila and Bemba? Secondly, Mr Katumbi asked for protection. In the meantime he has left abroad, first in South Africa and now he is in Great Britain. Can he continue to count on Belgian support? How do you assess the current stability of the regime? Can Kabila afford a direct confrontation with the direct supporters of the opposition, or does he not receive sufficient support to do so? How strong is his position today? Finally, Mr Kabila is trying to eliminate and hinder Mr Katumbi in his work as opposition candidate. Should we not, in your view, conclude from these political maneuvers that the democratic elections that have been planned can eventually also be held? Do you not see any sign here that Mr Kabila will also apply these techniques to the other opposition candidates?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u42	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, today we are referring again to the DRC. The situation is still so complicated. I know that you have had a European Council of Foreign Ministers in Brussels and that you have put this item on the agenda. I welcome this initiative because I think it is good to regularly remind Europe of this issue. I believe that Belgium must be proactive. I thank you, in any case, for bringing this item to the agenda of this Foreign Affairs Council. Can you inform me, Minister, of what was said at this Council? Have any decisions been made? Has a consensus been reached among European Foreign Ministers to support the electoral process in the DRC? Will the European Union actively support it by providing logistical and human support? Have there been any concrete avenues for action in the DRC in cases of non-compliance with certain fundamental rights or freedoms? With regard to the electoral process and in terms of funding, were anything planned at this meeting? Also in the context of this electoral issue, you know that the opposition leaders met last week in Genval to discuss and try to define a common position. They reached a common text. I learned from the social media that you had met with them, in the wake of their conclusions and their debates. What was the content of your meeting regarding this conclave of Genval and the decisions that were taken? What were their requests in relation to Belgium following this meeting?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already shared my opinion with you in the Chamber that the Democratic Republic of Congo is at a crossroads and is crucial in the coming months. You refer to a number of important risk derivatives that show exactly that it's five to twelve. On 23 May 2016, at the request of our country, the Foreign Affairs Council came together at European level to discuss the political situation in the DRC. In particular, I had the opportunity to report to my colleagues on the content of my interviews during my recent trip to the region. As you know, on this trip I stressed the urgency of restarting the electoral process and the need to keep a political space open. I referred to human rights violations and stressed, in addition to the collective responsibility of the Government and the State, the individual responsibility of the various actors, including within the security services. This means that the perpetrators of such acts also incur their personal responsibility and may suffer the consequences. The international community will remain vigilant. The Council of Foreign Ministers of the European Union has adopted conclusions containing very similar messages, which I welcome. In terms of human rights violations, the Council's conclusions explicitly refer to the individual responsibility of the various actors and to the Cotonou Agreement mechanism. There is now an urgent need for further concrete steps, first and foremost in the field of the CENI, to start the electoral process. There is a judgment of the Congolese Constitutional Court, but the legitimacy of a government is always based on the holding of regular elections, as determined by the Constitution. The lack of clarity about when and how elections are organised is a factor of instability. On 19 May 2016, Moïse Katumbi was charged and a provisional arrest warrant was issued against him. The next day, however, he was allowed to leave the country. He's in South Africa right now, getting medical attention. You know I followed this very closely. In response to these facts, I reiterated my call for the maintenance of an open political space. The current climate of intimidation against members of the opposition, as well as against media and human rights defenders, needs to be stopped. During a difficult period in Lubumbashi, I have been in contact with the Prime Minister of the DRC, Augustin Matata. It was possible to give a correct evolution on the various demonstrations in the streets of Lubumbashi and on the situation of Moïse Katumbi. After his stay in South Africa, Moïse Katumbi can come to Europe: Belgium; Paris or London. I've been in touch with him, like other members of the opposition. The United Congolese opposition met on 8 and 9 June in our country. On the issue of funding, you will have to ask the organizers the question. In any case, our country has not released any funding for this. I understand that the invitation was from Etienne Tshisekedi of UDPS, but that there were important representatives of the other groups of the opposition, such as the G7, the Dynamique de libreposition congolaise and the Alternative pour la République platform. On 10 June, upon my return from Tanzania and Rwanda, I received representatives of the Opposition Rally who had participated in the Conclave. It was an opportunity for me to learn about the political situation in the DRC and the results of their meeting in Genval. The Gathering explained to me its opposition to the dialogue in the format proposed by the President. It seems in favour of a dialogue promoting the full implementation of UN Security Council Resolution 2277, under the moderation of the international facilitator reinforced by a panel of delegates from international organisations. I took this opportunity to pay tribute to the work of the Gathering done this week in order to reach a common point of view for the entire opposition. The conclusion of an agreement among the various opposition groups is a significant development. I hope that this will translate into a real exchange between the majority and the opposition, within a favourable framework as desired by the African Union. Although solutions to the political problems in the DRC must come first and foremost from Congolese political actors themselves, an initiative on the part of the African Union facilitator, Mr Edem Kodjo, supported by the United Nations, is now expected from both the opposition and the majority. For our country, the dialogue must be short and precise and should be part of UN Security Council Resolution 2277 with a view to starting the electoral process. As I had the opportunity to mention it at the meeting with President Kabila, our wish is to see the dialogue established. It was, moreover, also his wish. It was in this context that we had contacts with the representatives of the majority and the opposition on the occasion of my visit to Kinshasa and that I received, at their request, the second at the time of their meeting in Belgium. I recall that the opposition is, of course, composed of elected members of the Congolese National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u44	I don't have much to add. Thanks for the detailed answer. It is true that everything must be done to ensure the success of this interaction between opposition and majority in order to allow the elections to take place. It is the elections of the transformation that only in this way can prove the democratic process and also strengthen the faith of the Congolese in this process.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u45	Minister, thank you for your answers. However, you have not provided a concrete response to the Foreign Affairs Council. Has there been a consensus on a series of measures that have been taken in terms of logistical and human support, but also in terms of funding?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u46	The Council of 23 May essentially took up the positions I put forward in Kinshasa, namely the need to trigger the electoral process and to maintain an open public space, stressing the individual responsibility of the actors. That is essentially the content. For the rest, I can refer you to the text. Of course, there is a confirmation of the openness, on the European side, to participation in logistical and financial efforts. But for this to happen, the process must start. First of all, it is up to the Congolese government to provide budgetary resources. We have already announced, on several occasions, that Monusco could play a major logistical role and that there is an opportunity for a range of European and non-European actors to intervene in support, including in the financing of the organisation of elections. But for this to happen, the process must be clearly launched.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u47	Minister, thank you for this additional information.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u48	Minister, on 19 May Montenegro signed an accession treaty to NATO, which could make that small Balkan country the 29th member of the military alliance. In addition to Croatia and Slovenia, it would be the third former Yugoslav country to join. It is a modest but clear strengthening of NATO in the Western Balkans, a signal that Russia has not escaped either. Although it is an independent choice of a sovereign state, Russia still opposes yet another expansion of the North Atlantic alliance. Mr Minister, could you briefly explain Montenegrin's accession? A period of 18 months is imposed on the current Member States. Do you expect resistance during that process? If not, when do you expect accession to be possible at the earliest? Montenegro is difficult to call a major asset in the military field. The geostrategic position of the country is more important to NATO. How do you assess the choice for Montenegro and what added value can the country deliver to the coalition? How will accession affect NATO's operational capacity? With this accession, will NATO open the door to further enlargement in the Balkans? I am thinking, for example, of Kosovo. Do you consider that further territorial expansion of NATO is desirable?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u49	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, as my colleague has mentioned, Montenegro is not really a major military state, since it has just 2,000 units, I think. The signing of Montenegro's accession protocol to the Atlantic Alliance, which took place on 19 May, is an additional symbolic step, since it coincides with the tenth anniversary of the country's independence. This is a historic step forward for the Alliance as a whole and, according to its Secretary General, this new step is proof that NATO's doors remain open. However, the country is not expected to officially join NATO until 2017. However, the small Balkan Republic will be present at all meetings of the Alliance, as an observer or invited country. Moscow, which, of course, sees it as an encroachment on its sphere of influence, has insurrectioned against the enlargement of the Alliance in this strategic area in its eyes. Minister, what are your views on the current situation in Montenegro and on this accession? What geopolitical implications and consequences will this accession have? What are the NATO injunctions to be followed by Montenegro? What are the next countries seeking NATO membership?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u50	In the framework of the recent NATO Council of Foreign Ministers in Brussels on 19 May, in the presence of the Montenegrin Prime Minister, Mr Milo Dukanović, the protocol of accession of the NATO alliance with that country was indeed served with an official ceremony. Since that signature Montenegro has been invited to participate in NATO Council meetings as an invité or observer. That is to say, with a right to speak, but without a right to vote. Under that statute, the country will also be able to participate in the next NATO summit in Warsaw in July. As early as 2 December 2015, NATO Foreign Ministers had invited Montenegro to start accession negotiations in the light of the country's already reform efforts under the Membership Action Plan and of the important role it can play in the security situation in the Balkans region. A further reform programme was also agreed during the accession negotiations. In doing so, Montenegro is taking additional commitments in the area of strengthening the rule of law and the fight against crime and corruption, strengthening the common values contained in the NATO Charter, increasing public support and gradually increasing defence expenditure. Between now and the end of 2016, regular reports will be made on the implementation of that programme. Mr Blanchart, NATO membership has been Montenegro's sovereign choice, as has its general orientation of integration into Euro-Atlantic structures. An enlargement of NATO is not directed against any other country. In addition, the decision to invite a country to join the Alliance is exclusively a matter for NATO member states. Each country, in the framework of the Helsinki Final Act, has the right to choose the international organisations to which it wishes to belong. After the recent signing of the accession protocol, it will be up to the parliaments of the 28 NATO allied countries, before the beginning of 2017, to start their ratification process. After that, each government will be able to deposit the instrument of ratification with the United States Department of Foreign Affairs, depositary of the North Atlantic Treaty. In the meantime, Montenegro will sit as an observer on the North Atlantic Council without the right to vote. In the meantime, the country must pursue reforms, even after the signing of this act of accession, as is customary for each candidate country. In the declaration on the policy of the open door of foreign ministers, the Alliance encourages Montenegro to continue reforms in the field of the rule of law and the fight against corruption. NATO will continue to provide support and assistance to Montenegro, including through the Accession Action Plan. The possibility of a European State joining the Alliance is enshrined in paragraph 10 of the Washington Treaty of 4 April 1949. The NATO door remains open. The invitation to Montenegro to join NATO bears witness to the fact that this policy is still in effect. It is also a signal of encouragement to other countries in the region wishing to join NATO; other countries than Montenegro have the effect of expressing this wish. Georgia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia are at different stages in the process of rapprochement with NATO. The Foreign Ministers, when they came to Brussels on 2 December 2015, indicated the steps still to be taken by each of these countries individually. The procedure continues.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u51	I thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u52	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answers. I stress, however, that the situation is quite surprising. It is well known that Russia has invested a great deal in Montenegro, particularly in tourism development. Russian capital flooded the Montenegrin coast – a sublime coast. A government whose Prime Minister has been in power for twenty-five years immutably and which is not a democratic model suddenly takes the initiative of reaching out to NATO is somewhat surprising. Hopefully this will help stabilize the situation in the area!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister must leave us at 5:00 p.m., because he must receive Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. I would suggest that we leave the questions under item 10, if the Minister agrees. Therefore, those Members whose questions are no longer being discussed can leave the sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u54	Mr President, Minister, I will briefly put my question, which will leave more room for your answer, which hopefully is much more interesting than my question. Just over a year ago, Burundian President Nkurunziza announced his candidacy for a third term of office. The conflict continues, resulting in many victims. A lot of people have also fled. Those who are left behind are intimidated and fear for their lives. Then, as some of the actors had already judged, there was no mobilisation along the traditional ethnic fault lines. Do you think that can still happen? Finally, foreign interventions in the conflict could hardly get a grip on the course of events, nor could they stop the violence. What lessons do you therefore intend to draw from the case of Burundi for any similar conflicts in that region? Mr President, if I may, I would like to ask a brief question about the obstruction of Alex Sinduhije on Zaventem. This is covered by the same problem or is in line with the same facts. Mr Minister, can you say a little more about these events? The man in question was held in Zaventem for a day. He is also with the US persona non grata because of his possible involvement in the MSD activities of the rebel movement Red Tabara. Were you, your entourage or the diplomatic corps aware of facilitating the lifting of the description of the events in Zaventem?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u55	Mr President, Minister, I am not going to recall everything that my colleague has just said. The situation in Burundi continues to be tense, if not dramatic, with all the violence we are experiencing, whether inside or outside the country. But I know you continue to make various frequent contacts. As part of Mr Mkapa's visit to Belgium, following his contacts here in Brussels with part of the Burundian opposition, CNARED, you had contacts with both CNARED and former Burundian President Sylvestre Ntibantunganya. Minister, what feedback have you had from these interviews? Have they raised some avenues for solutions, even though we know it's really very complicated? Did you also meet Mr. Mkapa? If not, why? I confess that I have not seen any information about this. What was the content of this interview, if it took place? It is known that, prior to his visit to Brussels, he had also established a dialogue in Burundi with the opposition. Did he mention any ways out of this crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u56	Mr President, the political crisis in Burundi has been going on for over a year since the President decided to take a third term of office. Since then, the conflict has taken a heavy toll. According to the UN, at least 536 victims were killed and more than 260 000 people fled. There are still daily acts of violence and human rights are being violated all too often. The economic situation has deteriorated considerably in recent months. The conflict is of a provisional political nature and arose within the party of the President. There are Hutuss and Tutsis in both camps. As the International Crisis Group recently established, there are no signs of imminent widespread ethnic violence. However, we recently noted speeches that could revive ethnic tensions, including within the army. However, the regime is trying to abuse the internal inter-Burundian dialogue to challenge the Arusha balances. We must protect ourselves from an excessive ethnic reading of the conflict, but we must also remain vigilant. I am convinced that only a sufficiently inclusive dialogue between Burundians can provide a solution. An interview was actually planned with former President Sylvestre Ntibantunganya on Friday, 10 June. But I wanted to take advantage of the presence of the entire CNARED management in Brussels to plan a wider meeting. I first invited the president to a smaller meeting, but then to be part of the delegation. He was accompanied by Jean Minani, President of CNARED, former Vice-Presidents Gervais Rufyukiri and Bernard Busokosa, Charles Nditije of UPRONA and Pancrace Cimpaye, spokesperson of CNARED. We talked about their meeting with the facilitator, former President Mkapa, which took place just before I met them. My interlocutors felt it was very positive. Another meeting between CNARED and the facilitator was scheduled the following day. I reiterated my support for the facilitator and mediation of the East African Community. I encouraged CNARED members to be constructive in helping former President Mkapa move forward in the dialogue process. My interlocutors informed me of their analysis of the origin of the crisis and how to get out of it. I have noted their willingness to defend concerted positions, to participate in negotiations and to preserve the achievements of the Arusha Agreements. As I said earlier, I met my Burundian counterpart on the same day and conveyed the same message to him, stressing that the solution to the crisis must be found in an inclusive manner between Burundians. These two meetings followed my contacts in Dar es Salaam, in particular with the facilitator Mkapa. On the substance, the positions of the authorities and the opposition are still very distant. The initiative of former President Mkapa is all the more commendable. I have seen its very high degree of clarity on the first need to define participants in a future dialogue and on the difficulty of making proposals that can bring together points of view. But I had a fairly long interview with him in Dar es Salaam on the subject. The lesson I have learned from the past few months is that such crises can be avoided if the directors respect the existing agreements, such as the Arusha Agreement, and enter into dialogue with the other party. This did not happen in the case of Burundi. In addition, good cooperation between the European Union, the United Nations and the African Union is essential both to prevent the crisis and to allow for dialogue and to stabilise the situation afterwards. It is true, Mr Luykx, that on Wednesday 1 June Alexis Sinduhije travelled to Belgium to attend a meeting of the opposition coalition CNARED. On Zaventem he was stopped at customs on the basis of a French description. His spokesperson immediately contacted my services, as well as his lawyer, Master Bernard Maingain. These negotiations lasted for hours with the French authorities, on which they reviewed their decision. In fact, it would simply be an administrative problem for the French authorities and Mr Sinduhije should no longer have any problems in the future. After the description had been withdrawn, Mr Sinduhije had access to our territory and was able to participate in the CNARED meeting. It is important to remember that Mr Sinduhije is on the American sanction list, but not on the European list, and that he is therefore theoretically free to travel in the EU. Moreover, family members of his family live in France.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u57	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-06-15-54-commissie-ic447x.u58	I thank the Minister for his answers.
