ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u2	Mr President, Prime Minister, the refugee camp in Calais may soon be evacuated. There is a risk that the refugees will cross the border. It's a very difficult situation. Is it necessary to avoid a similar refugee camp on the coast? Yeah, absolutely. Is that a reason not to help war fugitives or not to feed them, as the CD&V governor had asked, or, as the mayor of Knokke said, to set up some sort of mini-Guantanamo prison? No, you don't! It's about people, not animals. So let us keep our heads down. Resilience is necessary, humanity is equally necessary. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is this force in increasing border controls and closing borders? I'd be very careful anyway. Europe must move forward. We must not go backwards, the path of the Europe of the last century, the path of division. We have nothing against targeted controls on transit migrants, but the complete closure of a border or the systematic introduction of border controls is, in my view, a step backwards. I would also point out the economic cost of such a measure. What we must do is, firstly, to make it clear to the war refugees by all means that they must apply for asylum and, secondly, to deal with the smugglers of human beings. I recently visited the refugee camp in Dunkirk. It is precisely on those two points that the French government has completely failed. If the refugees are really going to reach the Belgian coastal region, Belgium must do better in this area. We need legal teams, with interpreters who explain to those people what their rights are and what the asylum procedure means. We need police officers to deal with the smugglers. In Dunkirk's refugee camp, we knew perfectly where these smugglers were, but the French police refused to take them. Prime Minister, what are your priorities to address the challenge of transit migration? Finally, I would ask you to sharpen the moral compass of your government in this matter and to make sure that there is no doubt about it in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u3	Mr President, Prime Minister, border issues also reached our country this week. As you know, but for the sake of clarity, my fellow Members, Schengen is also very dear to us. Moreover, as Mr De Vriendt said, closing the borders of all the Member States would be a complete failure for the European economy. The cost picture was calculated at as much as EUR 100 billion per year. That is why, Minister, at European level, we must make every effort to enforce the external borders, the hotspots and, of course, the distribution between the various Member States of the European Union. In fact, I hear that your Secretary of State, Mr Francken, is defending all this today at the meeting with the European Ministers for Asylum and Migration. We assume that you will also defend this position at the March European Summit. In the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a very specific problem, in particular that of asylum seekers who are now in northern France and are threatening to cross the border. These people do not want to apply for asylum in France. Most people don't want to do that in our country either, just to be clear. Their only goal is to reach the United Kingdom. This in itself constitutes a very specific problem. We must avoid creating illegal camps in the coastal region. Increased border controls in West Flanders and on our southern border to deal with these people seem to us to be acceptable at the moment, if that is a temporary solution. Let us be clear, if there are people there who want to apply for asylum in our country, we believe that this should be possible. We must, however, minimise the economic burden of controls. Therefore, Prime Minister, the following questions. Firstly, are these border controls indeed covered by the exceptions allowed by Schengen? Has this been checked out? Was this discussed? Secondly, how can we reduce the economic burden as much as possible? Thirdly, not insignificant, because yesterday we were talking about 290 people, how will your government make the increased deployment of police capacity strongholds? We have disturbing reports from the local police zones, who have been asked to jump in. This is perfectly possible out of solidarity, but an efficient use of resources seems obvious to us. I do not have to tell you that if there are policemen from Limburg, Brabant or the Kempen there will be many overtime hours, and that this will increase the pressure on local police areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed a very delicate situation. The facts are as follows. Over the last 16 or 17 years, we have seen the development of illegal tent camps in France near Calais. So that's nothing new. A few weeks ago, in Belgium, we found concrete and negative effects of the situation in the Calais area, for example, the development of a new camp around Grande-Synthe. A few weeks ago, on behalf of the government, I took the initiative to contact French Prime Minister Valls to ask him to take initiatives and work together to control the situation, particularly with regard to our territory. We are therefore pleased that the French Government is taking initiatives. That is a positive point, and I would like to make this very clear. Of course, the immediate effects are palpable in Belgium. In the last few days we have seen an increase in the problematic situations resulting from the situation in the Calais area. That is why we decided two days ago to strengthen, within the framework of the Schengen code, control at the borders but also in the vicinity of the Zeebrugge Seaport. We have taken the initiative through information to the French Government. I personally had a phone call with Minister Valls on Tuesday. Mr Jambon had a telephone call with Minister Cazeneuve. There have also been contacts at police and operational level. We sent a formal notification to the European Commission yesterday, in accordance with the Schengen code. I say clearly that we will do everything in our power not to have a no-go zone in Belgium and not to have actual illegal camps. We have also found that the people intercepted for the vast majority are not a requesting party to apply for asylum in Belgium, but have the will to go to Great Britain. In most cases, it's about illegals. That is why we call for cooperation with France within the framework of a return policy, although a human policy but clearly a return policy. In short, we are determined to keep the situation under control. That will not be easy because it is a delicate situation. We believe that we must make every effort to avoid actual illegal tent camps on our territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u5	Prime Minister, we share your concern to avoid refugee camps on our coasts, but only border controls will of course not suffice. The reality is nuanced and I ask you to pay attention to it. I would point out that these are war refugees who are not aware of the existing asylum procedures. I believe that we also need an initiative in which we support and assist the mayors in West Flanders, so that there can be harmony in dealing with the problem, not only in the method, but also in the way of communication and in the way we talk about war refugees. The Foreign Affairs Office must also assist the coastal mayors to provide the best possible solution. As far as border controls and the closure of internal borders are concerned, we have fought for a long time for European ideals. So let us not give in to the fear of reintegrating internal borders. That won't solve anything and just shift the problem. We need nuance and a comprehensive solution to this challenge.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u6	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Border controls are obviously not the only solution, Mr De Vriendt. They are only a measure in a whole package of measures taken by the government. Our group is in favour of the temporary nature of this measure. Exceptional circumstances require exceptional measures, but we certainly do not abolish Schengen. We therefore expressly ask that the measures taken by the government, which are also being discussed in a European framework, should certainly come back to Parliament in the coming weeks and be evaluated in the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u7	Minister, last week social history was written. Employers and workers in the manufacturing industry have joined forces to complain that the steel sector, a major part of the manufacturing industry, including in Flanders, is facing unfair competition from abroad, especially China. China would pursue a policy of dumping which affects our steel producers. We must not underestimate last week's signal, Minister. In my opinion, it has been a long time since the middle of the 1980s at the Boom Metalworks, in your region, that employers and employees have been brought together again to defend their legitimate interests. The file is very complex. Unfortunately, I only have two minutes. What can we do to address these people's concerns? It is a complex European dossier. I understand that a long time ago, but you also know that I do not believe in Europe. I am like Mr Johnson, the good friend of your good friend Bart De Wever, who is also quite eurocritical. For once, what can the Belgian Government (sic) do to address the concerns of the steel industry?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u8	Mr Penris, I do not agree with you on the vision of Europe. Let's get that straight. It is not, however, the first time that we have fundamentally disagreed on this issue. However, I agree with you when you stand up for the Belgian steel industry. The Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister have written a letter on this matter to the European Commission to make it clear that dumping and unfair competition from China cannot be achieved. I myself have written to the European Commission with my fellow Members from France, Germany, Luxembourg, Great Britain and Poland to express our concern about certain issues, such as China's dumping practices in the steel sector. Secondly, you are right to point out that the Belgian steel industry directly and indirectly employs some 25 000 people. Both in Ghent and Genk it is about 6 400 jobs and in Liège 1 300. It is very important for Wallonia, Flanders and Brussels to ensure that the steel industry can compete with fair weapons. I would also like to make the following point. In addition to the letters already written, on 18 April we will organize a high-level OECD Colloquium with 50 countries to discuss the problem of overcapacity in the steel sector in the Egmont Palace. This will certainly include dumping practices. Mr President, I shall now come to my final point. The European Commission will carry out an impact assessment. What will be the impact if China is recognised as a free market economy? The European Commission will examine three scenarios. We will follow that very closely and certainly make our voices heard. Mr Penris, we are seriously working on this dossier. You have rightly asked the question about the way in which Belgium handles this. I have told you what action we have already taken and what action we will take.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u9	Mr President, I would like to have Minister Peeters in this House as a sparring partner because he always gives the answers I hope to get from him. Something else is the execution of all those good intentions. There's a song by The Strangers at the Chinese gon food mor I had my cens forgotten. That song ends in a huge fight in that Chinese restaurant. Those Chinese were right at the time, because that man should have had his pennies on him. I believe that the rules of the game should apply to everyone. If I go to Chinese and I forget my pennies, that Chinese guy gets to be mad at me. However, if that Chinese man comes to me, he must follow the rules that we impose on him or her. I hope, Minister, that you will be able to enforce this for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u10	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, the announcement of your program entitled Faitable work and agility in employment – terms used in the French version – has received attention. It is true that a number of these measures deserve to be debated, although for some of them it is already said that you have lost opportunities, especially in the context of tax reform when you are advocating extending the benefits of company cars to other modes of transport, possibly with a financial envelope that would be made available to the worker. The tax reform would have been a good opportunity to review the mobility tax and provide for modalities, but you missed the opportunity. Nor are there any measures in your programme, or at least in a very synthetic way, to accompany the extension of the working time of older workers. When time credit is abolished, there is no doubt that this flexibility, which would benefit workers, is being undermined. First of all – and I do not know if you will accept it – it would be appropriate to organise a genuine substantive debate on your proposals in Parliament, in a committee. I would also like to know what kind of political path you are going to take to your proposals. A round table was launched in the social partners last June on the concept of work that can be done. Is this work, which has been accomplished, abandoned? Does it still serve as a reference? Will you give a deadline for the social partners to examine your ten proposals? What exactly are the documents you are going to submit to the social partners? What we have as press communication is too brief to have detailed technical information. Do you accept that Parliament can receive what you are going to pass on to the social partners? When will you consider that the social partners must have succeeded in eventually moving to a more parliamentary and political phase at government level?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u11	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this morning the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats presented the 500-day report on the economic and social situation in Michel. One of the indicators on red is the well-being at work. That is why, Minister, we are pleased that you have finally launched a plan on workable work after 500 days of government last weekend. Frankly, we find in that plan a number of interesting proposals, such as the mobility budget. As you know, we have a very specific proposal on this and a proposal on a freelancer's statute. Unfortunately, however, we also see that the proposals that you are making are again about issues that frame work, such as leave of absence. They are important, but workable work is also about what happens in the workplace itself, namely about healthy, workable working environments. You recently stated in committee that you were prepared to take proposals on this subject, including those from the opposition. Following the second round table on workable work, we launched a ten-point plan around workable work organisations. However, we now find that you have not included in your plan any of our ten-point plan, which is unfortunate. After all, it is very logical that workable work is mainly about what happens in the workplace itself and about the working conditions in which people have to work. Only then will we find that workers are less likely to become ill and less premature. Of course, we know that policy makers should not break into what is happening in the workplace, in a company or in an organisation. However, it is the responsibility of the government to support and stimulate the transition to more workable workspaces. The government should not impose any additional rules on this matter. However, it has a responsibility to be a partner, a catalyst and an inspiration in this area. Unfortunately, this has not been reflected in your plan to date. I have a number of specific questions. What is the timing of your plan? Do you have your government's approval to proceed with the plan? When will you start? Will the social partners be heard about the plan? Do you have any idea what their opinion is about your plan? Will they be able to make any adjustments? Finally, are you willing to see a partner in us, to make the transition and to ensure that work for people in their workplace itself becomes more effective healthier and workable, so that people are less premature?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u12	Mr President, Mr Minister for Employment, after all the decisions taken by the government on the backs of workers (judgment of index, pension at age 67), your announcement of the construction site of the werkbaar werk has led to hope. You had understood the need to adapt working conditions, in particular to enable older workers to manage and assume their end of their careers, to enable younger workers to better reconcile their private and professional lives. This reform was to be carried out by you, who are the best advocate of social consultation within the government. Understand my hope! Today I am worried, but not yet disappointed, because nothing is done. You announce ten proposals, before consultation with the social partners. What are these proposals for? Maximum flexibility on the backs of workers, a status of self-employed to legalize false self-employed persons, permanent temporary workers to make our young people worse for life. And you say that in the absence of agreement, these proposals will go into force in parliament. Mr Peeters, you cannot practice this way. Don't worry! This is not your will, your goal. It's only a small test balloon. You're going to give the concertation all its chances. You will leave him his role, and above all put in place all the conditions to reach an agreement. What procedure will you really follow, with respect for our social partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that you are today asking questions on this very important subject, on feasibility and flexibility. Mr Maingain, here I have the note in French and Dutch Meer werkbare jobs met regels op maat. Of course, I have it at the disposal of every Member of Parliament. I can hand it over to the president of the assembly. I would also like to stress that we have held two round tables. We have organized two round tables with a total of more than fifty ideas, measures. Of those ideas I have tried to give the most innovative and the most appealing. Mr Daerden, I agree that this list is not exhaustive. I also intend to ask the social partners, but also the Committee on Social Affairs, to add other measures. This is not limited to the measures included in the note. I've tried to give you the most appealing ideas. I also indicated what I believe we should answer sooner or later. That's how I understand you're concerned about the freelancers, but I can see that this group is increasing in numbers. It's not about bogus self-employed people, it's about a new group. We ask ourselves whether this group belongs under the status of an employee or self-employed person and what we can do about it. Mrs Willaert, I repeat that any good idea and any good proposal from the majority and certainly from the opposition is worth investigating. That's my attitude, and I'm going to keep it. So it is certainly not my intention not to take proposals from the opposition, just because they come from the opposition. Good proposals can always be discussed further. I have tried to modernise and update what has worked in the past. Mr Daerden, you are very familiar with Mr Hansenne's experiences and pilot projects carried out in 1982. Mr Hansenne has said that he will create a legal framework within which agreements between employers and employees can be concluded in order to be innovative. In concrete terms, this means that we will make up a menu. Hopefully this will be done by the social partners. I will ask the Group of Ten to prepare a menu, in which we will certainly add the elements of the coalition agreement. We will certainly also give the social partners the opportunity to supplement it. On the basis of this menu, which will also be included in the legislative framework, certain parts of the menu can be chosen at sectoral and enterprise level with the agreement of employees and employers. This was applied in 1982 with KB No. 179, a power of attorney-KB. I hope that this will increase innovation. Mr. Maingain, you're asking me about timing. I hope I can work as fast as I can. This was also included in the fine schedule: bilateral contacts with the social partners will take place over the next few days. We have already sat around the table with experts and will continue to do so. We're in the middle of drafting a bill. That is, of course, also being considered further in the government. I hope to be able to discuss it here before the summer recess. Why is this timing so strict now? If we want to conclude an IPA by the end of the year, if we want to ensure that sectors can conclude collective agreements at sectoral level, it will be possible to do so in spring 2017. That's a pretty tight schedule. In order to have concrete measures at the level of companies and sectors, we need innovative initiatives. I hope that we will be able to contribute to this in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u14	Mr Minister, thank you for your very frank and open answer and I would like to take your word. Indeed, it is not customary for us to hear the government declare that it is willing to submit – perhaps also to social consultation – proposals that come from groups that do not belong to the majority. For my part, I'm a taker. If you agree that the Committee on Social Affairs should meet and take into account the various proposals from all the political groups represented in this House, then you should also agree to submit them for consultation between the social partners. There may be interest in ways other than those listed. Your sense of openness honors you. I hope that the result will be to its full extent, with proposals coming from other quarters than those of the majority being taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u15	Minister, you indicate that you have given the most appealing ideas and that you think it is worth examining proposals from the opposition as well. There can be no lack of proposals on workable work in the workplace itself. As Minister of Work, you must have a vision of this, especially in a government in which people are forced to work longer. Why don't you yourself explain what such a workable working environment can look like, from solid to high quality to excellent jobs? We have been doing this for a very long time in Finland, and I do not think that is the case here. Why don't you put forward a measurable objective to bring down the number of debilitating jobs? I believe that this is certainly possible. Why not strengthen existing initiatives such as Flanders Synergy? We have made a very interesting visit to this with the Social Affairs Committee. I believe that more of that is needed to support companies and organisations in that transition. We're a partner in that. Our proposals are ready. I believe that we can work on this together, because it can really be different than it is at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u16	Minister, you can count on us. We will contribute to the reform with very concrete proposals to improve working conditions. It is recognised that our country has great flexibility, and you know that, but this aspect is under the control of the social partners. This is a reality in Belgium. Do not undermine our balance and our social model, based on consultation! I'll finish by telling you not to turn your feasible work project into unbudgetable work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u17	Minister, the government has taken a number of measures to curb runways and the unmotivated time loan. We believe that this is right, because the unmotivated time-credit creates a lot of difficulties, especially for SMEs, and high-cost social security. For the sake of clarity, it is about time-credit that is taken out of choice, without an immediate social or personal need. At the same time, the motivated time loan, for whom it really needs, was strengthened and extended by a period of 12 months, from three to four years. We believe that this measure is also quite right. Moreover, the N-VA has always argued in favour of this, because the motivated time loan serves to provide for a seriously ill child or a heavily dependent family member. Financially, it is a fairly neutral operation, otherwise it would have to be provided by specialist care providers. Social and social added value is also evident. Today we see in the figures of the RVA that, despite all these restrictive measures, between the third quarter of 2014 and the third quarter of 2015, around 10 000 employees have become more involved in the time-credit system, spread across the three categories. That's a little disturbing, isn't it? That's why I'm asking. If you look at it afterwards, wasn't the transitional period for the introduction of the measures too long, so that some workers quickly took up unmotivated time credits before the regulation entered into force? How do you view the budgetary consequences of this increase? Will you take corrective measures for this? My calculations show that a savings of EUR 23 million was planned for 2015. With this increase, we are looking at plus EUR 25 million. It is therefore close to EUR 50 million. How do you view that? What will you do about it? How will you check in the future that motivated time credit is also used effectively for what it should serve, namely for the care of family members?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u18	Mr Spooren, it is true that we have made a number of important decisions on time credits and runways. Those decisions entered into force on 1 January 2015. For example, the right to interruption benefit in the context of non-motivate time credit lapses. From 1 January 2015 only time credits with care motive or for training are possible and other possibilities are strengthened. This measure has already worked and will continue to do so. Colleague, sometimes the media are inimitable. Even though the RVA published its annual report with all the figures and statistics on its website a while ago, the figures for certain newspapers suddenly become front page news, after which they return to the hemisphere. It is true that an increase of 6.5 % and 2.8 % in the private sector and the public sector respectively was observed in 2015. As far as I and the RVA are concerned, this increase is due to the fact that, after they were confronted with the announcement in 2014 that certain decisions would enter into force from 1 January 2015, employees have quickly applied for time credits on the basis of the old legislation. That's not a new phenomenon. When new measures are announced, we try to anticipate them every time we can, here in 2014. Budgetair, of course, has an effect in 2015. The requests for time-credit in 2014 will of course be included in the budget in the year 2015. Its impact amounts to over EUR 16 million. You're asking me to take corrective action. The answer is no. Why not? I do not, because in 2016 the number of employees in time credits will fall sharply, even below the level of 2014. To sum up, I think it is positive that the time-credit measures will have an effect in the future. Even though we now feel the effect of some workers still using the old measure in 2014, there is no reason to tighten the rules. Well, that's not gonna happen. Moreover, we do not have to compensate for the budgetary impact, because in 2016 and 2017, I expect even greater budgetary consequences. That is the explanation that can and must be given to the figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u19	Mr. Secretary, I'm sure you will. I hope that you will be right and that the figures for taking up time credits for 2016 will fall dramatically. It is very important for our group that the commitments made by the government are not only translated into legislative work and policy measures, but above all that they also have the effect they are intended to have. I am glad that you are confident that this will be the case. Our group also expects the remaining measures from the government agreement to be taken in this area. I am thinking in particular of the link between the private sector and public services in relation to the system of career breaks. That is an important task, which lies ahead of that domain, and you will find a very loyal partner in us in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u20	Mr. Secretary, you have surprised me with your low turnout to the NGO staff. You disappointed me because you rejected the outstretched hand of 11.11.11. I can't understand that. From a Minister for Development I expect him to be aware of the various international studies that make it clear that the developing countries per euro that they receive are on average missing ten because of capital flight. Not so long ago, in 2015, UNCTAD estimated that the tax hocus-pocus of large companies, the developing countries, lost $100 billion in revenue. In 2015, the IMF even increased by 200 billion dollars. What 11.11.11 has done, Minister, is no more, but it is no less, than to calculate international determinations on the basis of 28 double taxation treaties. 11.11.11 amounts to a modest amount. I think it's higher. 11.11.11 estimates the loss of these 28 countries at EUR 35 million. My questions are as follows, Minister. Firstly, are you prepared to instruct the Planning Bureau or the Court of Auditors to calculate, for the 41 double taxation treaties we have with developing countries, what funds these countries miss according to generally acceptable criteria? Secondly, if it is found that developing countries are losing money, and it is certain that this will be established, are you prepared to argue with Minister Van Overtveldt in favour of renegotiating the double taxation treaties?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u21	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Van der Maelen, double taxation treaties provide a stable legal framework and thus legal certainty for companies wishing to invest. This also applies to companies wishing to invest in developing countries. We believe in the importance of economic development in developing countries. We are helping to ensure that local authorities themselves can generate an effective tax system and use their own resources. Local authorities can then use these resources to set up their own education, set up their own health care and develop their own infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen, such a sustainable improvement can only be achieved with the help of the private sector. I therefore fully support the vision of the Minister for Development Cooperation, Minister De Croo, because of the commitment to more investment to support local communities and governments in a sustainable way. That is what we are talking about today, Mr Van der Maelen. I'm not gonna take part in today's unleashed witch hunt. I am more interested in the results our Minister wishes to achieve there. Minister, I have one question for you: what initiatives will you take to ensure that our partner countries can be helped to optimise their tax systems and to generate revenue yourself?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u22	Mr van der Maelen, you would like to have a substantive discussion and I intend to do so, so I am happy to discuss that. In the end, it's about how we make sure that the local government can guarantee its own resources. Taxation is one of the key elements in this. It's called domestic resource mobilisation. I will quote four examples which indicate that our country is absolutely in charge at international level and in the areas where we are active. Firstly, I mention the Financial for Development Conference in Addis Ababa. There it was made very clear that the development of tax systems should be a priority. We have ensured that this has become a crucial element. A balance must be found. On the one hand, a government must be able to raise funds, on the other hand, it must also be able to ensure that this tax is reasonable, otherwise there can never be economic growth and without economic growth people cannot move forward. Secondly, we are ensuring that tax systems are developed. Unfortunately, we have to stop there in Burundi with the Office Burundais des Recettes. We have worked very hard to build this together. Thirdly, this structural anchoring in our policies. One of the new partner organisations that I have selected in my policy is the IMF's Tax Policy and Administration Topical Trust Fund. Specific work is being carried out on tax issues. Fourthly, we are setting a good example. In a cooperation agreement with Guinea, our country has chosen to refrain from obtaining an exemption from import duties and VAT because we believe that it is also logical to pay taxes if one is active in a country. I come to the report of 11.11.11. This is about double taxation treaties. This is a very specific element that is being negotiated by the tax administrations, as Mrs Lijnen has indicated. A stable fiscal and legal framework is a prerequisite for attracting investment. No international investment will take place if we are dealing with a complete arbitrariness in the field of taxation. In general, this is also a good system. The Belgian double taxation treaties were made on the basis of a model from the OECD. This is a generally accepted model. I can live with the idea of measuring all double taxation treaties at international level on the basis of that OECD model. Our country already uses this model today. However, I am not going along with your framing of the private sector. I absolutely don't want to go along with that. The Sustainable Development Goals make it very clear that the private sector will be a key element in economic growth. You portray the private sector as a sector that does nothing but avoid tax and set up tax systems to avoid paying taxes. That is absolutely not the case! I will consult with civil society for my policy, but also with the private sector. Indeed, the private sector will be a crucial element in the sustainable improvement of the situation of the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u23	Minister, you put words in my mouth that I have not spoken. Good tax treaties are needed. Legal certainty is needed. However, the double taxation treaties that Belgium has concluded open up gates which cause the developing countries to miss out on money. Minister, in the Netherlands, the government has reviewed its double taxation treaties. It has been found that the developing countries have lost EUR 500 million in revenue per year. I note that you do not wish to carry out such studies. What can be done in the Netherlands should also be possible with us. What is more, Minister, the Netherlands, a country that you very often cite as an example, has decided to renegotiate 23 tax treaties. Minister, I note that you are applying internationally whatever is being applied here in Belgium by your colleague in the finance sector. Multinationals are not affected. The people in the poor countries will pay the price of that anti-social tax policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u24	Mr President, Mr Van der Maelen, whether it is small SMEs, the multinational or the staff of development organisations, double taxation treaties should create legal certainty. That's a condition. All the other comments I would like to mention are political sacrifices at the expense of small people's poverty in development cooperation. Only the development of a sustainable economy through investment, job creation and local trade will help the developing countries. That's Minister De Croo's policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u25	Mr President, Minister, it is unnecessary to recall here the importance of digital technology in the modern world, particularly from a socio-economic point of view. This morning's reading of L'Echo taught me two good news. The first is that today, seven in ten Belgians have a gsm with a data connection. The second is that 97% of the territory has 4G coverage, but outdoor coverage. At first glance, these two news stories are positive in view of the increase in the coverage rate and the implementation of data in the gsm of our citizens. However, the coverage rate of 97% relates to the outside of homes. So, 3% of people don't have it at all. As regards indoor cover, i.e. inside houses, the figures are much less positive. There are still many "white" areas where the connection is unfortunately not enough. In some cases, it is completely non-existent. Therefore, this creates an important digital divide for a range of rural areas, mainly in Wallonia, which are penalized by this insufficient coverage. SMEs suffer from loss of customers due to poor connectivity. Horeca establishments see customers flee because there is not enough network. There are also simply citizens who suffer from this digital divide. Minister, I have four questions. The first concerns indoor figures. I think that in the future, it would be good to have indoor figures and not outdoor figures. Secondly, what initiatives do you intend to take to address the fact that a few percent of people do not yet have access to a sufficient network? My third question concerns the collaborations which perhaps should be envisaged with the municipalities or in any case the Region, mainly the Walloon Region, concerned with this problem. Fourthly, do you not think that universal service could be the ultimate weapon against operators in order to impose on them the total coverage of our territory?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u26	Mr Clarinval, you quoted the figures published yesterday by the IBPT. You yourself come from a rural area of Wallonia, so you know that the coverage is quite low in a lot of places. You also know that an additional coverage obligation has been granted to Mobistar, which aims to achieve a 4G coverage of 98% in 60 communes by the end of 2016. As you say, providing efficient digital mobile coverage is an important element for economic growth. All operators want better coverage in rural areas, especially in Wallonia. And to do this, you have to install antennas! But it is becoming increasingly difficult for operators to install antennas from the moment when the Walloon Region decided to tax these antennas! If these rural areas in Wallonia do not want to lag behind, if they do not want to lose economic potential due to lack of gsm coverage, taxing the towers is totally against common sense!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answer. A 98% coverage is very good, but let's look at the indoor. For the rest, I agree with you. It is important that the Walloon Region understands that if it wants to develop rural areas, it must stop taxing towers at all costs! It is a matter of common sense and I hope that this message will be heard in Namur because it is important that rural areas are not penalized by this taxing rabies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u28	Mr. Chair, Minister, tonight is the opening of the Batibouw Lounge. We will find that Belgians have a brick in their stomach, but not only: they also have a special sensitivity to savings accounts. Today, EUR 250 billion is deposited in savings accounts in Belgium. And because of this, our regime is particularly favourable. We have a tax exemption that applies up to the ceiling of 1 880 euros, and a rather favourable household discount for the surplus, at 15%. This is likely to encourage savers to deposit some of their money into savings accounts. Nevertheless, in 2013, Belgium was condemned by the Court of Justice of the European Union, given that a Belgian saver clearly did not have the same opportunities when opening an account in a European country. A certain form of discrimination therefore existed between a Belgian saver who opened an account in Belgium and a Belgian saver who opened an account in another European country which did not benefit from this system and tax incentives. That, in 2014, Parliament made a legislative change and tried to smooth out this pitfall. However, the Commission received an informal new complaint from a Belgian taxpayer and found that discrimination persisted. In addition, the Court of First Instance of Bruges decided to refer a question to the Court of Justice of the European Union for a preliminary ruling. Mr Minister, there is no point in telling you that this is the subject of a topical issue which was mentioned in the press no later than yesterday. The MR group is very sensitive to the protection of the saver. Moreover, it is unthinkable for us to review the tax favour enjoyed by the Belgian saver. Minister, thank you for letting us know what solutions you are considering and what the government's attitude to this issue will be.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u29	Mr Scourneau, following a judgment of the European Court of Justice of 6 June 2013, the provisions on savings booklets were adapted by the Law of 25 April 2014 laying down various provisions. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u30	It is true that the European Commission considers that the criteria for the exemption of the first tranche of EUR 1 880 from interest apply to savings booklets from other Member States are contrary to European law. However, my administration and the Government consider that these measures are fully in line with European provisions since they also allow the exemption of the first tranche of EUR 1 880 from interest on savings books from other Member States, but only if they meet the same criteria as those required for Belgian savings books. As a preliminary question has been referred, as you have indicated, by the Court of First Instance of Bruges to the Court of Luxembourg, the European Commission seems to have suspended its proceedings against Belgium de facto and temporarily. It is intended that the Belgian Government will defend before the Court of Justice the same position as with the Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u31	Minister, I am reassured that you are following this matter with interest. It is indeed appropriate that we comply with the supranational provisions. For the rest, we will always defend the interest of the saver. We're counting on you. We obviously have confidence in the government. Finally, I would like to reassure my esteemed colleague. It is quite possible to greet a person while listening to the minister. He too can do two things at the same time, like watching TV and chewing gum.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u32	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you saw yesterday that this study by the Board of the Plan on Corporate Cars, which shows the impact in terms of mobility, the system is going to push people and behaviour towards the use of the car. The necessary conclusion in relation to this study is that reform is essential. The current system is nonsense in that the person who is entitled to a company car and no longer wants to use it, has no choice. He usually uses it because otherwise he suffers a loss of wages. This goes back to a system where the state and the company finance the increase of the plugs. When we approach the debate on company cars, there are those who are for and those who are against. What we are proposing is to get out of this "stop or stop" and move towards alternatives, i.e. to maintain the tax advantage of company cars, but also to allow choice for others, whether in terms of mobility (common transport, bicycles) or other choices such as, for example, housing aid to be able to move to their place of work or, why not, in terms of quality of life, through service vouchers. Mr. Minister, you were unable to read this study of the Planning Office. What is your vision of this study? Do you have the same openness as Minister Peeters, who is clearly in favour of changing the system? Will you take the opportunity of this study to consider reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u33	Mr. Chairman, Ms. Fonck, the study of the Plan Bureau to which you refer is intended to calculate the overall impact on the well-being of the corporate car tax system. The study lists a number of behavioural effects with respect to the possession and use of a company car. We have seen this study, which is undoubtedly very serious and thorough, but it would be appropriate to go further with the proposed analysis. The congestion caused by company cars is first estimated on the basis of household surveys. The measurement data and parameters of this analysis can certainly be refined. A causal link is also established between the advantage of company cars, the possession of a more expensive vehicle and the travel of more kilometres. The question is whether the causal link exists in all cases. Furthermore, it should be stressed that legislation has already significantly curbed the phenomenon of social loss in terms of pollution as regards company vehicles by combining the tax advantage with the emission rate of vehicles. The estimated cost of the tax system (EUR 900 million, 0.20 % of GDP) must also be seen in this context. Tax regulations for corporate cars continue to play an important role in maintaining competitive wages in the private sector and also take into account the effects highlighted by the study of the Plan Office. As long as the historically accumulated wage disability continues to exist, we must think carefully before we end this regime. We will certainly be able to take this solution into account once the wage costs have fallen even further.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u34	Mr Minister, you are telling me that we need to go further in the study, that the study is not entirely correct... You are giving a diplomatic answer but you are telling us that there is no question of re-examining, in one way or another, the system of company cars. I am not surprised because the president of the N-VA said in May 2015 that we would not touch company cars. Minister, I will allow myself to say that your attitude is absolutely not courageous or reckless. You're talking about the wage advantage. I agree with you. But if we want to reform the system, it's not about saying "stop" or "stop". What we are proposing is, of course, not to plan the wage advantage, but it is to allow those who want to have a company car to have a company car while expanding the range so that people have the choice, in terms of mobility or other means to improve the quality of life. This must be done with simple, clear tax and parafiscal rules for both businesses and citizens. Minister, have a little more courage, audacity! Have the opening of your colleague, Minister Kris Peeters! Dare the debate on a reform and a positive evolution of company cars!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u35	Minister, this may be a rather strange question for you as Minister of Finance. I suppose you don't think about taxing breast reconstructions every day. Still, here I am. I won't bore you with details of how it goes with breast reconstructions. I would like to take this opportunity today to stress that this intervention is a serious financial burden for many patients. Due to the insufficient compensation for the surgeon, the procedure is accompanied by very high supplements that the patient himself has to pay. Today I receive messages from patients who received a letter from their hospital saying that from now on 21 % VAT is due on the fee, because it is an intervention with a mixed reconstructive and aesthetic character. I've been working for some time to get a full refund for a hot chest construction. Since the negotiations between the surgeons and the RIZIV on the limitation of fee supplements are not progressing very well, you will understand that 21 % VAT on top of the already very high invoice means a financial hangover for many patients. Can you make it clear what the VAT is about in breast reconstruction?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u36	Mrs Capoen, this is indeed a rather unusual subject, but therefore no less important. With the implementation of the federal government agreement and as a result of European case law, it has been decided in the framework of the tax shift that from 1 January 2016 VAT is payable on certain aesthetic interventions and treatments. In particular, they are purely aesthetic benefits provided by doctors who are not also included in the RIZIV nomenclature or, if they are included in the RIZIV nomenclature, are not eligible for compensation under the compulsory health insurance. Only interventions and treatments without any therapeutic purpose will henceforth be subject to VAT. To the extent that the aesthetic intervention or treatment also has a therapeutic purpose, the VAT exemption remains explicitly applicable. I repeat, only if an aesthetic procedure does not have any therapeutic purpose will there be 21 % VAT due from now on. Hospitals should therefore not charge VAT to a patient who, for example, undergoes breast reconstruction after illness. That is clear and clear from the legal source documents, and it is also possible for me to make this very clear to the sector clearly and several times.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for the clear answer. Apparently, some hospitals didn't understand that message. Your answer is a first bright spot for patients. The only thing left to me is to increase the pressure for the negotiations between the surgeons and the RIZIV, but unfortunately you cannot help me as Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u38	Mr President, Minister, I think that this afternoon there has been a lot of slogans about double taxation treaties. They are not good or not bad in themselves, but there are good and bad treaties, as is the case in many cases. It is important that good agreements are made that can be defended by the people who pay taxes in a fair way and who demand it from all companies. Good agreements are important for companies, so they know where they stand and where and how their profits are taxed in Belgium or abroad. There is certainly reason to revise, terminate or at least renegotiate a number of treaties. Why? Because there are some problematic issues in those texts. For example, if a profit is taxable abroad, we no longer levy taxes in Belgium. However, taxable may also mean that the 0 % applies or that an exemption has been granted. As a result, neither Belgium nor abroad are taxed. That's very problematic. Unfortunately, I could give a whole list of examples. One may also wonder why Belgium should conclude a treaty with tax havens where there is a rate of 0 per cent. I am thinking, for example, of the Isle of Man or Macau. If some of your predecessors could have made a treaty with Temptation Island, to facilitate as much as possible, to allow the indefendables maximum. For some, the political temptation was so great that they gave in to treaties that had nothing to do with it. However, a better tool could have been found for this. It would be much better to rely on the model convention on the exchange of information. That would have been much more efficient. It is also problematic that a number of conventions do not include anti-abuse provisions. I think it is a good principle to look at where economic activities are being developed and then to tax in that place. The EU and the OECD are right to ask questions. Belgium is almost world champion in concluding such treaties. Minister, will we be involved in the European initiative of the multilateral treaty which, in a movement, will eliminate many of these shortcomings? Are we active in the working group on this issue? What about the treaty policy in tax havens and the harmonised European approach in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u39	Mr Deseyn, your question on the double taxation treaties may also refer to the report recently proposed by 11.11.11. It contains a number of recommendations on Belgian treaty policy. I also refer, of course, to some of the answers given just now by Minister De Croo. With regard to the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS), I assume that you mean the section referring to double taxation treaties. With regard to double taxation treaties, BEPS focuses mainly on the application of minimum standards in the concluded conventions with the main aim of avoiding double taxation. In practical terms, this is reflected in the inclusion of an anti-abuse clause in the Treaties and a system of mutual consultation between the countries concerned. Our country is committed to applying these standards. Moreover, the provision on mutual consultation is already one of the standards in the conclusion of such conventions. The use of a multilateral treaty in this area seems to us to be a good choice. In this way all treaties can be adapted in one movement to minimum standards. Belgium participates in multilateral consultations and participates actively in them. With regard to the amendment of the 2010 Model Convention, it is not the case that if the Model Convention does not contain certain clauses, Belgium cannot negotiate those clauses and insert them into closed double taxation treaties. In the end, a double taxation treaty is an agreement between countries negotiated as a function of the desiderata of the parties concerned. Within the European Union, there is currently no real support for a harmonised approach to the double taxation treaties. As far as I know, not even a single country has specifically asked for it. Once again, double taxation treaties serve to avoid double taxation and take account of the individual tax systems of the countries concerned. It is not obvious that all of this should be dealt with in one single motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u40	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I do hear a real commitment to this. Perhaps the colleagues from the opposition have also heard that positive signal. It is evidence of a change in the direction of finance that there will be an active commitment to the process of the multilateral agreement. Just as there is a lot of land erosion, there is also a serious erosion of the taxable base in many countries. If one can or wants to value something, it is a pity that there is a tax bill with a Belgian flag, which means that one cannot handle it. Just as many Belgians saw on television yesterday, the tax situation is that once they are completely undressed, then the problems begin.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u41	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you a question today about the state guarantee on nuclear power stations. We are in a crazy situation in Belgium. If I understand what is happening, the owners of nuclear power plants are asking insurers to insure their plant and intervene in the event of a problem. These insurers, who are not crazy, refuse to provide such a dangerous facility, the financial risk being too high. Minister, it should still make you think a little bit about the state of our power plants. I have here a report from Greenpeace with a calculation of what a fire in a power plant could cost. It's just about a fire, so not even a scenario like Fukushima. The following figures are presented: a loss of non-consumable agricultural products of 3.1 billion, direct and indirect loss of value of exports of the agri-food industry of 2.8 billion and an indirect loss of export value of 5.2 billion. That gives a total of 23 billion. 23 billion damage in the event of a major fire in a nuclear power plant. And you keep saying that everything is fine at our power plants. As you know, I'm from Liège. In the region of Liège, a lot of people doubt the reliability of the Tihange 2 power plant. But figure out that even the Belgian MR is in insurgency. A few members here attended the communal council. Mr. Gilles Foret isn't here, but it's okay. The M.R. Lige today claims to return to the extension of the Tihange 2 power plant. Mrs Marghem, we have to start asking you questions when, even in your own ranks, we start to worry. My first question is about security. My second question concerns the principle itself. Why want to make all contributors pay the State's money, all those who contribute to taxation, for the dangers of nuclear power plants themselves? Why do we have to pay for the risks that private nuclear power plants take? You can't do that. Madam Secretary, are you going to apply these guarantees, yes or no? Will you now change the date of application of these guarantees in the various negotiations?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u42	Mr President, Minister, during this period most people get their energy bills, and it is striking that these invoices show all kinds of huge increases. Ascents, however, we do not notice with Electrabel. Gifts are given there over and over and over and by you. There was already the extension of Objective 1 and Objective 2, there was the reduction of taxes and on the purchase you are now going to give a state guarantee in case of an incident. This is, of course, problematic, especially for the other energy producers. After all, they would dream of getting such a state guarantee from you. It is remarkable that a liberal minister is going to disrupt the energy market and strengthen Electrabel's de facto existing monopoly. However, there is an alternative, and you know this very well, but I shall come back to this later, particularly the unlimited liability. We have tabled a proposal in this respect and I hope you will support it. In this way, nuclear energy producers will also pay where necessary. They will also pay for everything. Of course, that makes more sense. Madam Secretary, I have two questions. Firstly, are you prepared to abandon that state guarantee and introduce unlimited liability? I am not under any illusions, however, that you will use the law approved by the previous government to give that guarantee. Secondly, will you include the full cost of a possible incident in the premium you will ask Electrabel? I'm really looking forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, I am somewhat surprised by your questions, as they reveal a gap in knowledge of legislation in this area. First, the 1960 Paris Convention and its 2004 Additional Protocol provide for a State guarantee. Moreover, all the Member States which have signed this Convention have provided for one. Why? Because it is unbearable for the population that this risk is not fully or partially covered by insurance. Therefore, if it goes bankrupt, the State must be able to provide this guarantee. I am all the more surprised, Mrs Temmerman, that it was Mr Vande Lanotte who tabled on the benches of parliament the law of 29 June 2014 and that he himself wrote...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u44	I said it!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u45	Yes, but wait! I don't dispute it. I was therefore saying that Mr Vande Lanotte had himself drafted the article providing for the guarantee for remuneration, which is used to obtain, in the event of a risk on Belgian territory, safe insurance coverage. The above-mentioned Act entered into force on 1 January this year. It provides that the eleven nuclear operators, i.e. both Electrabel – on which you are systematically focusing – as well as the SCK-CEN, IRE to Fleurus, Transnubel and the others, are properly covered by insurance and pay premiums for this purpose. The 2004 Additional Protocol extended the limitation on compensation for personal injury from 10 to 30 years. Therefore, as of 1 January 2016, all nuclear operators in that country had to question the market as to whether the risks to be covered under these international instruments and the 2014 law could be covered by the market. They sent a letter to Kris Peeters stating that the market did not take charge of part of this risk, since the extension of the prescription from 10 to 30 years puts, for the moment, the traditional insurance companies in difficulty in relation to the coverage of this risk. That is why we are currently in the intermediate stage where, at the vows of the 2014 law that we voted – you like me – it is said that a state guarantee, may be, for state compensation, offered for part of that risk. The issue has not yet been resolved. That is the precise state in which we are today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u46	Minister, if I understand correctly, you note that the market refuses to cover such a risk. In itself, the major act is that the market says that it cannot cover it and that, for your part, you say that there is no problem because the public will endorse this type of risk. That is what you are explaining to all the Members here. In this country, it is always the same thing, profit is always privatized, but risk-taking is for the community. It's always the same in this country. There is always a total privatisation of profits, but when it comes to taking in risk derivatives, there is socialisation. That is what is wrong with this country! If Electrabel & cie takes such risks, it is up to them to assume them! It is not with our money that we must pay today for the dangers faced by multinationals who are only thinking about making money!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u47	Madam Minister, thank you for the translation of my question, but that was not necessary immediately because translators are here. However, I did not receive an answer. That is not surprising, because, as always, not only are you, but the whole government, and I am glad that you have cited the 2014 law, rather than taking a step backwards. The previous government decided to close target 1 and target 2 and you decide to reopen both plants. One of the previous governments decided to introduce unlimited liability, a decision that you co-approved. In a resolution of 2011, which I can read out here, under number 4: "The Committee on Civil Liability in Nuclear Energy is to review the system of civil liability in order to provide for a system of unlimited civil liability." For you, ma'am, I translate "an unlimited system of civil liability". That too, you voted for it! Madam Minister, I note that you are not the Minister for Energy, but the Minister for Nuclear Energy in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u48	Mr President, Madam Minister, this morning an article on the tariff per kilometer of the TGV in Belgium appeared in L-Echo. This article notes that the latter is one of the highest in Europe. Indeed, if we refer to this comparative analysis carried out by the GoEuro platform, the rate per kilometer of the TGV in Belgium is 31 eurocents, compared with 19 eurocents in France, Germany and Norway. Our country is the second most expensive European country. Everyone knows that the price policy per kilometre of the TGV in Europe is liberalized. But what can justify such a price difference? For example, the price per kilometre is three times higher in Belgium than in the Netherlands. The framework of Belgian bonds (infrastructure costs, fee costs, taxation, etc.) Does it have an impact on the price per kilometre?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, because of its geographical location, Belgium has high-speed lines that are among the most popular in Europe. Our country is at the heart of the European TGV project. He enjoys important high-speed relations, notably to Lille, London, Paris, Amsterdam and Cologne. The TGVs, thus Thalys and Eurostar, operate in a liberalized context. They are autonomous railway undertakings which freely fix their prices according to their commercial policy, their targeted customers, the heavy investments necessary to ensure a quality offer and the large amounts of the infrastructure fee.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u50	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, I am not entirely satisfied with this answer. I am well aware that the context is liberalized; I have made it clear in my question. In fact, I was wondering whether there was, apart from that, in Belgian conditions, an element that would ensure that the tariffs were higher. However, mobility is known to be crucial in Belgium. It is checked every day, especially in Brussels. This must remain competitive with the car. I would remind you that perhaps it would be time to think about putting the Thalys back on the Walloon dorsal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u51	Mr Secretary of State, yesterday I read in the newspaper that the Flemish government wants to build two islands off the coast of Knokke-Heist. She had a study carried out for this purpose. The two islands should, on the one hand, protect us from rising sea levels and, on the other hand, ensure that more ships can sail along the coastline at sea. That is a good thing, because the port of Zeebrugge has been asking for this for a long time, in order to be able to bring more shipping to Zeebrugge. The islands are also positive for the city of Bruges, because there would be fewer bridges open. There should then be fewer smaller boats sailing through city shipping. In 2007 a KB was issued that allows specially built ships to sail along the coastline. Do you want KB to adapt so that inland vessels can sail along the coastline as well? What is your view, as Secretary of State for the North Sea, on the islands? Did you consult on this? The articles in De Standaard and Het Nieuwsblad show that there were some frictions here and there. I would not like an economic project not to be able to continue because of a conflict of powers. Are you in the process of adjusting the KB for inland navigation? Do you dare to think about or dream of a moment when all these things become possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u52	Mr. Demon, I've got a lot of nerve. I'm even dreaming. First of all, there is no discussion of competence at all. The North Sea is a federal jurisdiction. That is why there is also the marine spatial plan, which was endorsed by my predecessor in 2014. We must all realise that there is a great deal of activity in our little North Sea. We have about 0.5% of the total surface area of the North Sea, but there are a lot of activities there. The Marine Spatial Plan does not provide for islands to come for the things that are being discussed today. There are, however, two areas for energy atolls. I have heard regular comments from the Flemish authorities, who have even brought proceedings against me before the Constitutional Court to determine that we are not competent for those islands, and that those islands would cause a great deal of environmental pollution. Now I hear a completely different story. There are, of course, similarities. It is clear to me that coastal defence, port and maritime access are Flemish powers, so there is no problem in that regard. Is there a meeting? Yes. Should there be a meeting? Sure. There's consultation and there's results. This has recently been the case, among other things, for the Royal Decree on surf sports, water sports. There I had discussions with colleague Muyters, and with results. As far as aquaculture is concerned, I have very good discussions with Mrs Schauvliege at the moment. So none of that is a problem. Since my arrival, I have advocated a cooperation agreement between Belgium and Flanders. We conclude cooperation agreements with the whole world, but there is no cooperation agreement in this area between Flanders and Belgium. As far as estuary is concerned, that's possible. It's okay. It's okay. Both the port administration and the Flemish Prime Minister have asked me to consider how this can be adapted. The Directorate-General for Maritime Transport is working on this. There is therefore no problem in this respect, but at first sight there is no need for an island to realize that. If islands are needed to realize this, I must be informed quickly, as the marine spatial plan will have to be adapted. I decide. Collaboration pays off. In the meantime, I have already had contact with Mr Weyts on the telephone and I am going to the port of Zeebrugge next week. Like you, I am convinced that a battle over blue energy, blue economy, jobs and economic growth is not at all relevant for our coastal region. I'm reaching out to work together.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u53	Thank you for your clarification. If we want to go to vessels with less tonnage, those islands may be important. These islands can therefore be a good thing for enlargement. I am pleased that you want to enter into dialogue and examine whether it can be effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u54	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our Constitution has very important values linked to the philosophy of the Enlightenment, including freedom and equality. Equality between citizens and the rejection of discrimination are clearly developed. Our Parliament has made it an honour to place Belgian society at the top of the list of countries fighting racism and discrimination, including a clear criminal policy on this subject. On the occasion of a particularly strong racist, anti-Semitic or Islamophobic act, society was able to stand up and denounce it. That said, Unia's last report is cold in the back. There have never been so many cases of hate speech. Racism, homophobia, discrimination on the basis of disability, rejection of the other are expressed more and more freely. Since the international situation was not to blame, anti-Muslim racism was exploding. Many have succumbed to the temptation of amalgam between Muslim citizens and terrorists. This must be fought forcefully, first out of respect for every citizen, regardless of his or her convictions, and then not to play the game of extremists. Mr President, the sitting of the oral questions is sometimes an opportunity for tough exchanges between the majority and the opposition. Today, that's really not what I'm looking for. I simply hope for very strong words and actions to condemn hate speech. This is due to the respect of all our fellow citizens. It is also about defending our values against those who want to set fire to our multicultural and multi-faith societies, whether in terms of prevention, security, work against hatred on the Internet. We must call for the solidarity of the Democrats against intolerance. Thank you for giving us the government's word on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u55	Mr President, Mrs Onkelinx, the government obviously shares your concern and that of Unia. The government agreement, like previous governments, makes the fight against racism, discrimination and homophobia a top priority. We need not only words, but also deeds. The evidence of this is the mercurial work of the Attorney General of Antwerp on the fight against discrimination and racism, and the comprehensive security note that we are preparing for the moment with the federated entities, which is a top priority, once again cross-cutting, of the fight against any form of violence based on gender, race, sex, etc. My colleague Elke Sleurs, together with the relevant ministers, has already presented his plan against gender-based violence. For the time being, it is preparing two other action plans. The first concerns the fight against racism and the other concerns the fight against homophobic and transphobic violence. The policy of research and prosecution of our public prosecutor's offices is well described in Circular COL 13/2013. It provides specific codes for the improved registration of the crimes and offences in question. These include Codes 56A for racism, 56B for xenophobia and 56C for discrimination. At the same time, the circular provides for an integrated collaboration between Unia, the police and the judiciary in the fight against these crimes and offences. A reference official and a reference magistrate shall be appointed in each jurisdiction. We appointed experts in the Royal Decree of 18 November 2015. They are responsible for evaluating legislation on discrimination. We are currently preparing our position on the subject of negationism, as provided for in the European Union Framework Decision 2008/913. Our words and actions are therefore in line with your wishes, I hope.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u56	Minister, thank you for your very clear words. We therefore have several appointments: Mrs Sleurs's plan, the comprehensive security framework note – the one of 2004 was particularly precise by placing the fight against racism and discrimination as a priority – the National Security Plan 2016-2019, for which we will see what the priority will be. Minister, I am paying attention to the issue of combating cybercrime. In this regard, the French government has set up, since autumn 2015, a unit against hatred on the Internet. I think it's a good idea since the violence of the Internet is almost never seen. We'll talk about it again. Our country must be more united than ever before in the face of hatred!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u57	End of oral questions. End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u58	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Sabien Lahaye-Battheu, Gilles Foret.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u59	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1253/4) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1253/4) The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, your Committee on Infrastructure considered Mrs Lahaye-Battheu's motion for a resolution at the meetings on 17 January and 2 February 2016. Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, who is the main, and even unique, author of this motion for a resolution, presented her text aimed at promoting access for bicycles, sometimes referred to as "bicycles", to railway stations. In particular, it stressed the need to develop an inventory of abandoned railway sites and surrounding land. It hoped that the management contracts Infrabel and SNCB which are under negotiation would take into account this very important aspect of multimodal access to stations. In the general discussion that followed and which was particularly rich, several speakers – including your servant, Messrs. Geerts and Yüksel, Mrs Laurette Onkelinx (I saw that only one T was in the report; I corrected it) and De Coninck – supported the proposal and insisted on the need for a comprehensive policy on the use of bicycles and rail transport. Mr. Foret wanted to incorporate in the text, in addition to classic bicycles, hybrid bicycles and mountain bikes. It's still very important. Mrs Lahaye-Battheu accepted this proposal, which came in the form of an amendment. All the amendments, which I am not going to detail here to preserve the intellectual integrity of the members, have been accepted unanimously, as has the motion for a resolution itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the agenda of our plenary session today there are a number of motions for resolutions concerning the improvement of cycling connections to and from stations and the promotion of the combination of trains and bicycles. Our group, of course, supports the two motions for resolutions. They are based on our efforts to stimulate multimodality. Multimodality, that's where we need to go. It is important to provide a sound response to our mobility pressure with an alternative to the car. In our view, the fact that many commuters prefer to be alone in traffic jams is due to the lack of good multimodality. The government's coalition agreement therefore rightly takes comodality or multimodality as a starting point for sustainable mobility. The motions for resolutions therefore call on the government to work on multimodality and, in particular, to encourage the combination of train and bike. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is not that easy. Multimodality is not so easy to facilitate and realize. It is only possible if all modes of transport are aligned. It is therefore important for SNCB and Infrabel to take into account the supply of buses, bicycles, trams and motor vehicles and to serve the regional and local authorities responsible for cycling policy when designing rail transport. Let me give you a concrete example. In the construction of new bicycle ostrades, Infrabel should not make any additional counter-arguments in the form of the closure of a road. They should facilitate cycle ostrades rather than prevent them. Any step to promote intermodality is a good one. The improvement of the combination of bike and train is certainly important. Folding bikes, for example, are an underutilised means of transport. It is therefore a good thing that the resolutions call for extra attention to be given to this. At the same time, we must, of course, avoid the fact that SNCB and Infrabel themselves are developing a cycling policy that is completely separate from the bicycle policy pursued by other governments. Cities, municipalities and regions are the responsible authorities for cycling. Their policy must therefore be the starting point for rail companies to join. Rather than enter into consultation, the railway companies must align themselves with the existing policy for other modes of transport. So much for my speech, ladies and gentlemen. I repeat what I said at the beginning: we will support both the first and the second motion for a resolution on today's agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u62	Mr President, the substance of this motion for a resolution is entirely defensible. However, the hypocrisy it underlies is such that we cannot support it. To improve the bike paths giving access to the stations, there must be stations. First of all, therefore, we should not attack railway stations, as the government in office uses them and is not in common measure with regard to what has unfortunately been done in the past. The hypocrisy of this motion for a resolution, as is the case with many resolutions of the majority, is so clear that it is not possible to vote on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u63	Mr President, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their cooperation on this motion for a resolution in the Committee on Infrastructure, which was unanimously adopted. The bike is an important and sustainable link in the transport chain of the train before and after transport. An obstacle to combined use today is the sometimes difficult accessibility of our stations. Often cyclists have to use the same access roads as cars and bus transport. With the proposal for a resolution, we would therefore like to call on Infrabel and SNCB to list the abandoned railway beds and the areas next to them in order to find out where long-distance bicycle paths can be built. That is the background to the motion for a resolution in a nutshell. Once again, I would like to thank all those who have contributed to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u64	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u65	The vote on the proposal will take place later. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u66	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Jef Van den Bergh, Sabien Lahaye-Battheu, Vincent Van Quickenborne, Egbert Lachaert, Roel Deseyn, Franky Demon, Sonja Becq.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u67	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1573/4) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1573/4) The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u68	Mr President, on 2 February 2016, your Committee on Infrastructure examined this proposal, the main author of which is Mr. Van den Bergh, supported by other parliamentarians who co-signed it. Mr. Van den Bergh presented his proposal to promote the combination, this time, of bicycles and trains, in a series of provisions on which I will have to concentrate a little more than in the previous motion for a resolution, because they have been the subject of a number of debates a little more intense than on the first one. Mr. Van den Bergh presented his text, namely various measures relating to the promotion of the combination of bicycles and trains. In the general discussion, the first two points of Mr. Van den Bergh did not debate or give rise to comments. On the other hand, in point 3, Mr. Van den Bergh tabled an amendment which caused some controversy in the committee. Mr. Van den Bergh did indeed wish to withdraw the link with the next management contract in his text, which prompted a number of reactions from my colleague, Stefaan Van Hecke, who does not understand the logic of the amendment which deprives the House of its ability to guarantee compliance with the requests via the management contract. Mrs Lalieux, along with Mrs Temmerman and your rapporteur, pointed out that the adoption of this amendment made the formulation of certain points somewhat out of place. Point 3 has therefore been the subject of many considerations. Items 4, 5 and 6 of the text of Mr. Van den Bergh has, in any case, provoked the reaction of Mrs Poncelet, in connection with the consultation with the regional entities. Secondly, in point 7, a question was raised by the rapporteur as to whether Mr. Van den Bergh addressed not only the so-called standardized stations in the future but also the current stations, to which Mr. Van den Bergh replied that it was all the stations. Mr. Foret has come back logically to the issue of regular bikes, ATVs and VTCs. I remind you of the debate on the previous point. Mr. Van den Bergh replied to point 9 that it was not the whole of the stations, but the majority of them; it was a small difference from the original text. In points 10 and 11, no observations were recorded. On the other hand, in point 12, there was an important debate on the role of the text in particular in relation to cycling points. Ms Temmerman, in connection with another text that will come after – still a bit of suspense – particularly stressed the issue of cycling points, their removal and links to the management contract; in particular the role of managers supposed to take care of these bike points in the stations. Mr. Van den Bergh et al. then tabled another amendment to new points 13 and 14, calling on SNCB to align its bicycle policy with that of the competent authorities. My colleague Van Hecke made a proposal to incorporate some elements of another proposal by Mrs Temmerman in relation to management contracts. It was not accepted by the authors. Finally, both Ms. Temmerman and Mr. Van den Bergh continued to bring necessarily contradictory arguments on this issue of cycling points. Mrs Lalieux said that her group could not support the motion for a resolution under discussion. As far as your rapporteur is concerned, he regretted that the majority refused to include an element of constraint in the management contract. But in view of the general desire to favour the combination of bicycles and trains, his group would support the whole text. Ladies and gentlemen, the votes were mixed, as there was no unanimity on both the amendments and the overall text, contrary to what had happened in the previous text. Therefore, the whole text as amended was adopted by 11 votes to 2, with 1 abstention.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add a few points to Mr Cheron's excellent report. I want to make our vote very clear. We originally intended to vote in favour of this proposal, but we voted against it in committee. We voted against it mainly because there were a lot of things in the original text that we could agree to, but all kinds of amendments have changed the spirit of the original text. Excuse me, but the text has become a little hypocritical. The important thing in that original text was that a number of issues relating to the quality of bicycle parking, such as the safety of bicycle parking in the stations and the cleanliness of bicycle parking, would be included in the management contract with SNCB. However, all this had to be removed from the text. Ladies and gentlemen, when one says a, one has to say b. Resolutions have a limited influence. However, if one weakens them in such a way that they do not really need to be followed up, then they really do not make sense and are hypocritical. Another example in the same resolution is the refusal to do so, despite the Court of Auditors' report evaluating the implementation of management contracts. The report indicates that it is best to proceed as specifically as possible in the management contracts so that it is quite clear what can and cannot be done. It is difficult for us to agree that the resolution does not take into account the Court of Auditors' report at all. As regards the broadening of the transport offer, the Minister himself stated in her policy paper that I quote: 'to encourage... by, for example, introducing measures in the management contract of the SNCB Group to improve the combination of train and bicycle.' It is precisely this element, the inclusion of these measures in the management contract, that has been removed from the text by means of an amendment. I would also like to say a few words about the bicycle manager. One wants to appoint a bicycle manager to coordinate cycling policy in the various stations. Colleagues, we have that already. Today there is a system that works very well, namely the bicycle points. The government wants to reduce the cycling points, but wants to appoint a bicycle manager. Never change a winning team . The cycling points work very well today, especially in the main stations. Keep stimulating them. This will encourage the use of the bicycle to public transport far more than a manager who has to manage all kinds of bicycle parking in the various stations. So we do not understand at all why the majority wants to adopt a resolution, but does not have the consequences. In addition, good systems that could deliver the resolution are being undermined. Another point is the design of the bicycle part system. Originally it said that the bicycle part system would be further stimulated. That has also been watered down to the majority of stations. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear why we voted against in committee. If we look at the resolution separately from this debate, we cannot oppose it, because it does not really say anything. The resolution speaks of encouraging, but does not say how to do so. So one can't really be against it. My group will therefore vote in favour of the resolution, but Mr Geerts and I will abstain from making it clear once again that resolutions are good but must have consequences. It is clear that the government does not want to accept the consequences of its own resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament can give an important signal today. Mrs Temmerman certainly agrees with that. We can say today that it is important for us that SNCB should be more involved in the combination of bike and train. With the combination of bike and train, we can offer a full alternative to the car in chain mobility. A major disadvantage of the train an sich is of course the last and the first mile. The bike can play an even bigger role in that than it does today. In addition to Mrs Lahaye-Battheu's resolution, which we have just discussed, this resolution sets out the initiatives to be taken by SNCB within the framework of the management agreement currently being drawn up. In this sense, the resolution can be a powerful signal. After consulting several people, the resolution achieved a number of measurable objectives from the management agreement. That's right. We did that because of a recommendation from the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors states that we are best placed to work with a limited number of quantitative objectives in the management agreement. We therefore call for a number of quantitative objectives to be included in the management agreement in the resolution. However, we do not do so for all the possible criteria that we put forward in terms of quality, cleanliness and safety, which are more difficult to measure. Moreover, it is clear that these criteria must also be given due consideration. There is a misunderstanding about the bicycle manager in terms of interpretation. In the meantime, we have also changed the name. It is not intended that in every station or region someone is designated to stimulate or manage cycling. It is intended that a member of the SNCB summit will be given the final responsibility to ensure that the bicycle is fully integrated into SNCB's policy. That is the purpose of the question in the resolution. If the SNCB summit is aware of the importance of the bicycle, it will only benefit the policy of cycling in the rail sector. That was a number of responses to the presentation. I thank everyone for their good cooperation. I hope that the plenary will send a positive signal to SNCB when the management contracts are drawn up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u71	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u72	The vote on the proposal will take place later. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u73	Pursuant to Rule 116 of the Rules of Procedure, a limited general discussion will take place in plenary. In accordance with rule 116 of the Rules, the bill is the subject of limited general discussion in plenary. The limited general discussion is open. The limited general discussion is open. Mr Ahmed Laaouej, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The limited general discussion is closed. The limited general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u74	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1576/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1576/3) The draft law has 11 articles. The bill has 11 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u75	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u76	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Catherine Fonck, Isabelle Poncelet. The Committee on Infrastructure, Transport and Public Enterprises proposes that this proposal be rejected. (1357/3) The Committee on Infrastructure, Communications and Public Enterprises proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (1357/3) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u77	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u78	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have already had the opportunity to discuss this motion for a resolution in committee. It is now that we need to talk about this issue and not in one or two years. The management contract is now in the process of negotiation. The least we can say is that, in recent times, the government has stopped sending signals in favour of an anti-mobility policy. You're going to ask me what this has to do with the rate. It should be noted that the cost of the train is one of several elements in terms of the attractiveness of the train. He's not the only one. There is also punctuality, accessibility of parking spaces. But this remains an element that allows for a competitive and attractive means of transport. Last week, there was the debate about the rates that the SNCB, and even the government – as far as we can say – wanted to increase during peak hours or for a target audience, namely seniors, students. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that all the members of the majority have indicated that this is not the objective pursued by SNCB. On the other hand, some indicated that free parking had no impact on the latter. Let me tell you that if today's free car parks become paid tomorrow, it will represent an increase of 15 to 30 per cent per year for the commuter. These are disguised taxes. This will represent additional costs to bear. In addition, I learned that by 2018, you had decided to move to 45 additional parking spaces, which represents 18,500 seats. These are existing places, not news, that you will charge! The peak is obviously when the SNCB, with a monster cap, unless it is the government that imposes this situation on it, explains that if it charges these existing parking spaces, it is to allow commuters to have a place. We do not propose to make all parking free, we want to have free access for commuters in order to carry out a genuine mobility policy, to make it a real factor of attractiveness and competitiveness for the choice of this type of mobility. Ladies and gentlemen, if you refer this motion for a resolution by "fucking around like the year forty", we can conclude that you do not mind adding costs and taxes to people who get up early to go to work. We can conclude that your policy is undermining intermodality. In committee, some lamented that people didn't use the bike. But this reflection makes me laugh! Having to travel ten or twenty kilometers to reach the station, depositing on the journey his child at the nursery or school... We may conclude that you have decided to transform the government's vision into an anti-mobility policy rather than a mobility policy. You push people back to the car and you disgust them from taking the train! Ladies and gentlemen, that is how you will have to interpret your vote if, as in committee, you are sweeping the proposal with a backhand! Mr President, I would like to thank the members of the Assembly and, in particular, those who will support the text.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u79	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u80	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: David Geerts, Karin Temmerman. The Committee on Infrastructure, Transport and Public Enterprises proposes that this proposal be rejected. (1184/2) The Committee on Infrastructure, Communications and Public Enterprises proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (1184/2) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u81	Mr President, when there are no more, there are still some! Never two without three, as my excellent colleague pointed out. Your Committee on Infrastructure has therefore considered the proposal by Mr Geerts and Mrs Temmerman to maintain and increase cycling points. It was at the meeting on February 2, 2016. How time passes! Ms Temmerman presented her arguments and particularly stressed the fact that the closure of the bike points, recently decided by the SNCB Board of Directors, was a very bad signal. In its motion for a resolution, it calls for the retention, but also for an increase in the number of bicycle points where possible, by also agreeing to create bicycle points in the stations of the medium-sized cities. During the general discussion that followed, Mr. Van den Bergh stressed that the SNCB had to rely on a combination of bicycles and trains, but felt that the objective of the resolution was already contained in its own text, the one discussed earlier. He added that the objective of a bicycle point per station was not achievable, stressing that the removal of bicycle points was an autonomous decision of an autonomous public undertaking and that this resulted in savings of EUR 350 000 for SNCB. My excellent colleague Stefaan Van Hecke does not support this vision. He considered it illogical to want to promote the use of the bicycle in combination with the train and to justify SNCB's decision to close bicycle points. He wondered: was the majority willing to support the proposal under consideration, if it was said that the reopening of cycling points should be included in the future management contract? Mrs Lalieux, for the Socialist Group, found it paradoxical to have to, as a member of the opposition, demand that the government agreement be implemented. That's right! It considered that maintaining and increasing cycling points should be integrated into the management contract. Ms De Coninck, for the N-VA, deplored the closure of the bike points, but felt that their management was not part of the essential tasks of SNCB and should not be included in the management contract. Moreover, social employment, which is one of its assets, is not an objective in itself. Finally, Ms De Coninck pointed out that not all the arguments that led to the closure of the bike points were known to the members of the Infrastructure Committee. In the present case, in her view, Parliament cannot make an informed decision. In conclusion, Mrs Temmerman, one of the sponsors of the motion for a resolution, has flouted, I quote 'the hypocrisy of the majority', which is to regret the decision to close the bike points while not having the courage to criticise this decision, let alone to back off. In the vote, ladies and gentlemen, recitals A to M were rejected by 8 votes to 4, as were points 1 to 4 of the operative part. The whole motion for a resolution was rejected, and I regret it, Mr Geerts, by 8 votes to 4.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u82	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Cheron and the services for this excellent report. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to make use of Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure today, because I think there has been a mistake in committee. When, after the committee meeting, I received a briefing from Mr Temmerman and my collaborator, I was actually very surprised that this resolution was not adopted. I fell out of the sky; I had absolutely not seen this coming. On 2 February, at Lichtmis, there was a debate in committee on modal shift and chain mobility, in particular on involving the bike in the mobility story. At that time, this resolution was not adopted. Mr Lahaye-Battheu's resolution was approved. Mr Van den Bergh's resolution was somewhat undermined by a number of amendments, but the philosophy itself was so far. Our resolution was mainly in line with expectations. We are saying, and we are not just saying that we need to use the bicycle points and promote them. These include cleaner bike sheds and fewer thefts. These are some positive effects of these cycling points. In addition, SNCB itself says that it will not be able to follow with the construction of parking facilities and that investment will have to be made in bicycle sheds and bicycle points because otherwise too much costs will have to be incurred. Another point, which may not be important for every group, but for us, is that the cycling points also have an aspect of social employment. People who cannot participate in the regular labour market can get a meaningful use of working time there. When I look at the municipal authorities, regardless of the majority, for example in Lier, where the competent ships recently said that the cycling points are very important to the city, I think they are absolutely right if they think this is important. That is why I am using Rule 88 to give my fellow Members who have experience of cycling points the opportunity once again to support the resolution. After all, not only does our group say that cycling points are important. I have found a quote on the savings made by SNCB, which threaten to have a damaging impact on the cycling points at the smaller stations. The quote goes as follows:............................................................................................................................................................... In addition, these cycling points provide social employment for which such a service is needed. With the breakdown of these bicycle points, we take a step back. I don't know if you know who this quote belongs to. I found this on the website of CD&V Mol, where colleague Van den Bergh and colleague Verherstraeten defend the bicycle points. On March 10th there is another action in Mol, and I understand that CD&V fully supports that action. When you hear this, Mr Bogaert, do you think there has been a mistake in the committee where Mr Van den Bergh voted against this resolution? In substance, the resolution says that we want to carry out a study on the impact of cycling points at the stations, on cleanliness, theft, etc., and on cycling traffic and its possible financing. This study should examine the following aspects: chain mobility, the use of car, bike or bus by the departing passengers; and the cost of parking infrastructure versus facilities for cyclists. Now, ladies and gentlemen, that is exactly what the Court of Auditors has said this week and what the SNCB itself is saying. I therefore believe, in all honesty, that our colleague has made a mistake and that we are right to use Article 88 to give him the opportunity to correct this mistake. That is what we are counting on.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u83	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u84	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 February 2016, I also propose that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mr Olivier Maingain and Mrs Véronique Caprasse) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 in order to extend the powers of the Fiscal Conciliation Service, No. 1659/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u85	- the bill (Mrs Karin Jiroflée, Ms Anne Dedry and Mr Karin Temmerman) laying down various provisions concerning the treatment of harmful effects of tobacco, in particular to young people, No. 1665/1; - the motion for a resolution (Mrs Laurette Onkelinx cs) on better guidance in perinatal mourning, No. 1674/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u86	- the bill (Mrs Laurette Onkelinx cs) amending the law of 28 May 2002 on euthanasia, to delete the period of validity of the declaration of intent limited to five years and to allow the patient to determine the duration himself, No. 1675/1; - the bill (Mrs Laurette Onkelinx cs) amending the law of 28 May 2002 on euthanasia and the coordinated law of 10 July 2008 on hospitals and other care facilities, in order to ensure the conscience clause, No. 1676/1; - the legislative proposal (Mrs Laurette Onkelinx cs) amending the law of 28 May 2002 on euthanasia and setting a time limit within which the doctor must answer a patient's request for euthanasia and pass the medical file on to a colleague if he refuses to comply with that request, No. 1677/1; - the bill (Mrs Laurette Onkelinx, Mr Eric Massin and Mrs Özlem Özen) amending the Civil Code to allow discreet delivery, No. 1680/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u87	- the motion for a resolution (Mrs Leen Dierick cs) on a study on the modulation of nuclear power stations, No. 1681/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u88	- the bill (Mr Benoit Hellings and Mr Stefaan Van Hecke cs) on the introduction of an open data policy, No. 1683/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u89	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 February 2016, I also propose that you take into account: - the draft law (Mr Olivier Maingain and Mrs Véronique Caprasse) amending the Income Tax Code 1992, aimed at extending the powers of the tax conciliation service, No. 1659/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u90	- the bill (Ms Karin Jiroflée, Anne Dedry and Karin Temmerman) on various provisions to combat the harmful effects of tobacco, particularly among young people, No. 1665/1; - the motion for a resolution (Ms. Laurette Onkelinx et al.) to improve the management of perinatal mourning, No. 1674/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u91	- the bill (Ms. Laurette Onkelinx et al.) amending the Act of 28 May 2002 on euthanasia, aimed at removing the period of validity limited to 5 years from the advance declaration and allowing the patient to determine it himself, No. 1675/1; - the bill (Ms. Laurette Onkelinx et al.) amending the Euthanasia Act of 28 May 2002 and the Coordinated Act of 10 July 2008 on hospitals and other care facilities, with a view to ensuring the awareness clause, No. 1676/1; - the bill (Ms. Laurette Onkelinx et al.) amending the Act of 28 May 2002 on euthanasia and setting a time limit, in the head of the doctor, for responding to a request for euthanasia from the patient, on the one hand, and for transmitting the medical file to a colleague if he refuses to grant such a request, on the other hand, No. 1677/1; - the proposed law (Ms. Laurette Onkelinx, Mr. Eric Massin and Mrs. Özlem Özen) amending the Civil Code in order to allow delivery in discretion, No. 1680/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u92	- the motion for a resolution (Ms. Leen Dierick et al.) calling for a review of the modularity of nuclear power plants, No. 1681/1;
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u93	- the bill (MM. Benoit Hellings and Stefaan Van Hecke et al.) to establish an Open Data Policy, No. 1683/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u94	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u95	Mr President, I would like to ask the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 1664/1. With this bill, we want to criminalise the criminalisation of the intrusion without the authorization of a port company. The proposal is necessary in view of the current problem of illegal immigrants on the coast. Port companies need facilities for their protection and criminalisation is required. The relevant legislative proposal must be sent to committee as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u96	Is anyone else asking to speak at that point? [[No, no, ……]] We shall give our opinion on the request for urgent procedure in the usual manner. Whoever supports the urgency must rise now.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u97	Mr President, I would like to ask the urgency of the motion for a resolution No. 1681/1 by Mr Dierick of the CD&V Group. Mr Dierick rightly points out in her motion for a resolution that, with the forthcoming decision of the federal government to extend the lifespan of Objective 1 and Objective 2, there is a risk of overcapacity and that the renewable energy sector will suffer. Mr Dierick, in her motion for a resolution, asks for this overcapacity and the additional competitive disadvantage for the renewable energy sector to be investigated. The content of the proposal seems to me to be quite interesting and extremely urgent. Only last week, a study by EnergyVille was published highlighting the risk and the incredible disadvantage of extending the lifetime of Objective 1 and Objective 2. Since the extension of life is currently under discussion, our group would urge that Mr Dierick's motion for a resolution, which opens a proper debate, be dealt with as a matter of urgency. We welcome the opening of the majority. We hope to be able to discuss the proposal quickly. I assume that the CD&V Group will support the urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u98	We are speaking in the usual way about the request for urgency, namely sitting and getting up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u99	As the result is not clear, we shall proceed to the vote on the request for urgent procedure. Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u100	Yes 53 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 132 Total The urgency has been rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u101	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can only say that CD&V is honking in the media about the concern about the extension of the life cycle of the Objective 1 nuclear power plant and the future of the renewable energy sector, but it is not even taking the trouble here yet and gives the courage to start the debate on this subject, even though it concerns their own damn resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u102	Thank you very much, Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u103	This inquiry was developed in public meeting of the Committee on the Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, Middle Classes and Agriculture on 17 February 2016 This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for Business, Science Policy, Education, the National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, the Middle Classes and Agriculture of 17 February 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 118/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Messrs. Marcel Cheron and Stefaan Van Hecke; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Goedele Uyttersprot. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 118/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Marcel Cheron and Mr Stefaan Van Hecke; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Goedele Uyttersprot. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u104	Mr. President, it's raining in our federal museums. At the Royal Museums of Fine Arts in Belgium, a dozen works of art had to be moved, including a Rubens. At the Museum of Natural History, Bernissart's iguanodons are not far from the original marsh in which they were found. And, even more serious, the Egyptian mummies of the 50th anniversary are in danger. Ladies and gentlemen, I have therefore taken the initiative to question the Secretary of State. I must say that after hearing her answer, in which she asked me if I had any money to give her, I was obliged to say that the very strict rules of my party prevented me from helping to restore the Japanese Tower, the Chinese Pavilion, in short all the splendors that the whole world comes to visit every day in Brussels, if we still dare to come to Brussels under the present conditions. But, much more serious, the Secretary of State has given me no more than urgent answers. These urgent responses currently consist of placing buckets in the buildings in which it rains. It's not even a caricature. It is visible on videos that circulate abundantly. Beyond these short-term measures, ladies and gentlemen, I have not had a satisfactory answer to the very idea of a master plan that could be put in place so that, structurally, these essential testimonies of our culture that are in our federal museums can be preserved. I therefore call on the majority to come back to this issue and to take the urgent steps necessary for this world-recognised heritage.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u105	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u106	Yes 77 Yes No. 58 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 136 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u107	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1253/6) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1253/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u108	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 124 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1573/6) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1573/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u109	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 117 Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 16 Abstensions Total 136 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1576/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1576/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u110	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 78 Yes No. 54 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 1357/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 1357/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u111	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 78 Yes No. 54 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 1184/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 1184/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-25-54-plenair-ip099x.u112	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 3 March 2016. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, March 3, 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 3 March 2016 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday 3 March 2016 at 2.15 p.m.
