ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u2	Mr President, Prime Minister, the United States threatened to tax US companies that would pay interest to Belgian subsidiaries that benefit from tax niches such as notional interests. So it can be said that a real sword of Damocles weighs on them. This is part of a broader context where all Belgian tax niches are in the collimator of international organisations or the European Union. It is quite surprising to see the United States coming – if I may say so, Prime Minister – in support of an old struggle of the PTB for the suppression of notional interests. Indeed, in January, we tabled a bill to remove them. In February, we learn that this will is shared by the United States. Of course, this is a coincidence, but I nevertheless wanted to stress this fact. Nevertheless, for the past ten years, the PTB has denounced the notional interests that allow multinationals to pay zero tax or almost zero, without job creation and even through redundancies, as has been the case with multinationals such as AB InBEV, Arcelor, Electrabel, etc. In our view, it is inconceivable that Belgium is a tax haven for multinationals and a tax hell for the population and workers. I have heard the position of some members of the government. According to the CD&V, we must be careful not to threaten public finances, a position that I fully agree with. However, the party also indicated that, as stipulated in the government agreement, the stability of enterprises must be ensured. It is strange to note that there is never a question of the situation of workers who have to undergo the index jump, the increase in VAT and who see their purchasing power attacked every day. In other words, workers do not need stability, unlike multinationals. According to the N-VA, it is necessary to review the notional interests, position that I obviously share. However, for this party, we must also go further in terms of tax competition, an aspect on which I have some doubts. Prime Minister, what is your position on the issue of notional interests? Should they be reviewed or not? Is the issue of notional interests on the agenda of future government meetings? Is corporate tax on the agenda of the next Council of Ministers? Do you follow the position of the Minister of Finance, who is in favour of tax competition, which he wants Belgium to defend within the European Union or do you believe that our country must defend tax harmonisation within the European Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to at least have the courtesy of listening to the other Members of this House? Please be polite to listen to colleagues who ask questions. After all, the sound that rises from the banks is really unacceptable and I want it to stop. If you want to talk, I can understand that, but please do so in the buvette or in the walkways, but not here. Please pay due attention to those fellow Members who, as Mr Calvo will do in the near future, give the best of themselves. Mr Calvo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u4	I am almost touched, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u5	And impressed, too, I see.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u6	Prime Minister, I think that many countrymen are increasingly wondering why they are paying their taxes properly. In particular, many SMEs in this country are wondering why they pay almost or entirely the full amount of corporate tax. We have to read the newspapers for the past week. This weekend we were able to read that the European Greens have announced that the Swedish furniture giant Ikea, among other things, is barely paying taxes in this country due to the theoretical-intensity deduction and is going to shop tax anywhere in Europe. Yesterday it appeared that Electrabel escaped a million-dollar fine which would actually have to pay it because the debt you hold on to has another EUR 700 million in deduction. I believe that these are enough signals to tackle our taxation and to make corporate taxation fairer and simpler, more tailored to SMEs. But what does your government do? This week it is trying to convince Parliament to give Electrabel, one of the key players in tax optimisation, an extra gift, namely the Objective 1 and Objective 2 conventions. Meanwhile, you and your government are actually laughing at your face in other files. As far as corporation tax is concerned, Minister of Finance Van Overtveldt had a balloon a few weeks ago at EUR 3.5 billion cost to reform corporate tax. Since then, we have heard one declaration by the government parties after another, with total uncertainty. SMEs wonder whether corporate tax will effectively become fairer and simpler. So I have two questions, Prime Minister, in the hope that this is a theme that can connect majority and opposition. First of all, don't you think it's time to change strategy on Electrabel? After last week's dossier, can we not continue with the nuclear deal on Objective 1 and Objective 2? You can't make that hard, can you? Secondly, are you convinced, together with Ecolo-Groen, that there should be a corporate tax reform, fairer, simpler and tailored to SMEs? It is up to you as Prime Minister to finally clarify the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express to you my appreciation of the strength of conviction of the PTB-GO!. Mr Van Hees, in a few weeks, succeed in convincing the United States to table a new model of a tax treaty that will serve as a basis for future tax negotiations from the United States: I am extremely impressed by this ability to influence! A little more seriously, what facts are we facing? We have indeed been informed that the United States has decided to develop a new basis for its future negotiations under double taxation treaties. These are processes that can last several years. For the time being, we have not been informed of a formal United States approach aimed at challenging existing conventions with Belgium to negotiate a new convention. AmCham, the Chamber of Commerce concerned, even considered that the urgency of a revision of the tax provisions in Belgium should be relativized. What is the government's position on taxation and economic and social strategy? We made an important decision a few months ago, the tax shift. Our priority is the competitiveness of our companies. Our intention is to abolish the wage handicap in relation to our neighbouring countries. In this respect, we are on the right track, with more resources for our companies, for employment, for job creation and for more purchasing power for people who work. At the same time, and this is not easy or obvious, we also have a great ambition, in particular the reorganisation of our public finances, of our budget. These are the two priorities we are working on. We also want to ensure stability and legal certainty for investors, in order to foster confidence in the economic and fiscal model we defend. Therefore, we can always consider and propose to the Council of Ministers improvements to our tax model, including in terms of corporate tax. The government agreement has chosen to focus on the implementation of the tax shift. It is only within the government that we would consider, if proposals were made, all the suggestions to try to strengthen the attractiveness of investments, to strengthen the capacity to create jobs. That's the situation! A final point on the European level. At European level, I am convinced that strengthening monetary union and our euro area is a priority. Later, in a few hours, I will be present at the important debate on the Brexit. One of the key points in this debate is whether it will be possible to strengthen the instruments to strengthen the euro area. This therefore means strengthening convergence and harmonization in the tax field, including at European level. It is also in this way that we position ourselves. We will very calmly continue to implement the economic policy that has been decided. It is around the government table that we will look, week after week, month after month, at how to strengthen the measures taken. The top priority will be to create jobs and encourage investment, as this is the best way to guarantee the social protections that we care about.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u8	Prime Minister, I take note of your answer. In the dispute between the CD&V and the N-VA within government, you have clearly taken a stand for the CD&V as you say you remain in line with the government agreement and will not be taxed. Moreover, you disavow your Finance Minister, who tells us almost in every Finance Committee that Belgium must be at the forefront of tax competition. You say that Belgium must be at the forefront of tax harmonisation. I'm happy with your answers, but I note the contradiction with the N-VA. On the other hand, with regard to your decision not to question notional interests, I am much more critical because Belgium will remain a tax haven for multinationals and a tax hell for the population. Multinationals will continue to pay less tax than a housekeeper! When I see that Ikea hardly pays any taxes, I know why this government is called "Swedish"!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u9	First of all, Mr Prime Minister, I note that you are not going to do so in any way, because it is actually a disgrace on the Electrabel file and on the fact that you are trying to convince Parliament at this very moment of an extra gift. We, as ecologists, will do everything in our power to stop this deal, together with the Council of State and the European Commission, because this is an absolute disgrace. Above all, it is a disgrace to our SMEs. At a time when there is an incredibly social, economic, and growing political support to make corporate taxation fairer and simpler, more tailored to SMEs, wouldn't one expect a liberal prime minister to embrace this? You didn't do that today. You said you'd look into it. Corporate tax needs to be reformed. She needs to be simpler and fairer. Colleagues of CD&V, I understand very well that you are getting nervous by the Minister of Finance, Johan Van Overtveldt. Too often his numbers don't add up. Far too often, his party's programme hinders fair taxation. However, I do not understand why CD&V is persisting in its protest against a corporate tax reform. This reform can be implemented in a budget-neutral manner. This tax should be simpler and, above all, fairer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, at the beginning of the week, the Group of Ten was unable to reach an agreement to update the 2002 gentlemen's agreement, including the right to strike. However, the agreement was not very far away from the social partners. We seek to identify the real causes of failure, even if we have some elements that pierce this, from there. Reactions have also been heard in your majority, including that of the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Peeters, who wants to relaunch the negotiations. And then, there are others who want to see the government and parliament take up this matter and legislate. Prime Minister, will the government take the initiative to relaunch social dialogue in an attempt to reach an agreement on this matter? If so, in what form and within what time frame? Has the government identified the points of disagreement that merit a particular investment from the government authority in an attempt to reconcile views? Does the government firmly reject the hypothesis of those who advocate for a form of regionalisation of this matter implicitly, since some have called on the Flemish government to take an initiative in this matter? Does the federal government ensure that its prerogatives are maintained? If there was no agreement through government intervention, would the government take the initiative or leave it to Parliament to legislate on a parliamentary initiative?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u11	Mr President, Prime Minister, we have had almost monthly strikes over the past year, except during the summer months, while this government has done a huge amount of work on job creation; think of the tax-shift measures. These strikes had all the consequences to be expected, not only for our economy, but also for those who do not get to work. As a result of this strike, we were here with a number of fellow Members. Minister Peeters said that the gentlemen's agreement, which he negotiated at the time, should be reviewed, and best by the social partners. No one in the hemisphere can say that the social partners have not had the time to consider how to update the gentlemen's agreement and the right to strike. This week, after months of consultation, we are told that no agreement will be reached. People say they can't get out. The employers' organizations are almost begging the government to come up with a solution itself. My question then is: what now? Neither my group nor the people here in Parliament are questioning the right to strike. No one here, I would like to emphasise, wants to abolish the right to strike. That is not the point of the debate. The debate is about the fact that the people who want to work must be able to work. My question is very specific: what are we going to do now? Social dialogue has not produced any results. The people who want to go to work expect a result. Is the government going to pull this important file?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u12	Prime Minister, Minister of Work, in December 2014, I was here with a number of fellow Members for the first time to talk about the strike actions in our country. I know that the Minister of Work then drew up a paper and said that he knew this very well, because he was at the table in 2002 in the negotiations on the gentlemen's agreement between the social partners, and that that is enough for him to maintain peace and tranquillity in our country. Unfortunately, that was not the case, because in the actions we saw in the months that followed, the gentlemen's agreement was violated, as far as it is already clear. We have seen this several times over the past year. At that time, in a resolution I tabled last year, I asked for that gentlemen's agreement to be evaluated. I was therefore very pleased that the Minister for Labour brought the social partners together to actually do so. I am therefore disappointed today that this has unfortunately failed. We have heard statements with positive signals on the scene, but behind the scene last week we had to observe that when texts had to be drawn up, they did not get anywhere. The question now is how we proceed with this. As long as we do not have a solution, that means that in our country who works is not sure that he will be able to go to work effectively. There must be strikes. That's not a problem, just to be clear. However, under the guise of a strike in Belgium, many things can be done that have nothing to do with a strike. One can completely set up industrial sites, one can completely block companies and ports, one can take people hostage. All this is being sold under the guise of the right to strike, which has nothing to do with such facts. The question now is who should take the initiative to continue working on a solution. We propose that the social partners be heard in the Committee on Social Affairs of the Chamber in order to clarify everyone's position, and then try to work out a constructive solution. Prime Minister, Minister, do you see any other avenues? Will you do something else yourself? We hope you can support our proposal or we look forward to your alternatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u13	Prime Minister, Minister of Work, everyone had good hopes that the social partners would agree on the modernisation of the gentlemen's agreement, on new agreements at strikes and on a way of organizing compliance. A number of incidents had demonstrated the need for a new framework for agreements. Let us be very clear about this: no one can do what you and I are not allowed to do. What is forbidden is forbidden, for everyone. It doesn't matter whether they're taxi drivers, truckers or strikers who block roads and destroy them: that can't be done, and it can't be accepted. There are laws for that, which must be applied. The best thing is, of course, to avoid derailments, and this requires a good framework of agreements between the social partners, with commitments to ensure compliance with the agreements. That framework was negotiated for four months with the will to succeed. The social agreements of the past few months and the discreet efforts of the Minister for Labour had really fueled the hope, but something apparently went wrong in the face of the measurement. However, we consider it very important that there are agreements in a social conflict made in a negotiated agreement. Such a quick imposition by the legislator, without the social partners, is not obvious and is not obvious. Whoever thinks that is going astray. The best guarantee to ensure that agreements made are respected is to have them agreed by partners. Prime Minister, that is why we ask that the government give the social partners some time. The government must listen to these partners in all discretion, untangle what has gone wrong and explore the ways in which a negotiated solution can be found. Colleagues, all initiatives that can contribute to this are welcome and deserve our support. However, polarisation and provocation will not be part of this. Prime Minister, what will you do to ensure that the social partners come round the table again and that we can reach a negotiated solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to begin by thanking the parliamentarians of the majority and the opposition who have spoken, because the subject is important. Allowing space for social dialogue, dialogue and social peace contributes to the country's attractiveness in an economic and social development strategy. A few weeks ago, serious incidents were observed during strike actions, and this led to the choice not only of the government but also of the social partners to evaluate and renegotiate the 2002 gentlemen's agreement. The Government has been following the work on the subject in the Group of Ten in a discreet and informal manner in recent weeks. In the hours following the information that a suspension of the negotiations had taken place, we ensured that the Minister for Employment and I had first, discreet, informal contacts with members of the Group of Ten in order to verify whether this failure was definitive or not, whether there was still the possibility in the coming hours or days, but in any case very quickly, of reaching an agreement between the social partners. The nuclear cabinet has decided today to use the next few days to quickly determine whether it is possible to reach an agreement within the Group of Ten. We intend to review and evaluate the situation in the government by the end of next week. We will do everything we can to give the social agreement a chance. In any case, it is clear, and I speak on behalf of the government, that the right to strike is a right that no one disputes. That was also clear here. At the same time, the freedom to work and to move are also rights that must be guaranteed. We will make every effort to combine these freedoms and rights that must be respected, in practical ways that can restore serenity in social dialogue. This will enable us to pursue economic and social reforms with the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u15	Prime Minister, I understand that you are very careful in this matter. The impatience would indeed be bad counselor. I observed that the parties of the majority had abstained from applause. That is to say, how much your path is undermined, at least if the government were to go through it at an accelerated speed. It is much wiser to allow the social partners to sit at the same table to resume negotiations on this issue. Indeed, the best way to avoid excessive movements is to make the social partners aware of it, so that they assume the proper implementation of their agreements. That's what I want on behalf of my party.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u16	Prime Minister, I have listened very carefully. You said it was a matter of days. You will try to reach an agreement with the social partners. I hope so. However, if no agreement has been reached in a few days' time, I do not think it is an option to do anything. I would like to emphasise two things that everyone in this country expects. First of all, no one is above the law. If damage or destruction is to be done, such as a car set on fire, then action must be taken and the unsub must be dealt with. A call for a trade union action cannot be made without a collective responsibility. Secondly, we agree with the right to strike, but that right to strike is not absolute. Anyone who wants to go to work must be able to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u17	Prime Minister, I understand that you will make one last attempt, together with the Minister of Work, in the coming days. I hear you want to reach an agreement by the end of next week. I'll hold you to that, too. After all, as I said, at the end of 2014, I already questioned the Minister for Employment here. At that time it was said that there was no need for any initiative in this area, but we have been more than a year now. So there's still time. I think we should try to get the parties to come back to the table constructively. Like Mr Demir, I believe that if we fail to do so, we must all bear our responsibilities. We are Members of Parliament. We must ensure that workers are able to strike properly. However, we must ensure that those who want to go to work can do the same. That is our responsibility. With Parliament and with the members of the Social Affairs Committee, we need to take up this story, even if it is not in the coalition agreement. We should not do this with ukazes or with veto versus one or the other proposal. However, we must listen constructively to blockages and come to solutions together. We will be constructive, but of course our patience is not endless. The right to work must be guaranteed. This is crucial for us as liberals.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u18	Mr Prime Minister, thank you for your reply and, above all, for your commitment to try again to get the social partners around the table. That's where the key lies. The best strike is the strike that is not going to happen, because there is a social agreement. We hope, together with you, that we will be able to welcome a new social agreement here in the coming days or weeks, if necessary, as long as it is a negotiated solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u19	Mr President, Prime Minister, BNP Paribas Fortis plans to divest several hundred employees. Their solution is for employees over 55 years of age, either in a part-time paid leave system with a part-time pre-pension or in full pay for those who do not meet the conditions of the law. Employees would, in this case, be on paid leave up to the age of pension. I note that, on this issue, it is radio silence on the part of the government. However, the State is the main shareholder of the bank, holding 10% of the capital. This is not the first time that the government has introduced a form of schizophrenia: on the one hand, a law increasing the pension to 66 years and then to 67 years and pre-pension conditions again locked; on the other, Proximus, for which the government has given its go-ahead to a voluntary departure plan for employees aged 60 and the police within which the government has introduced a system of pre-retirement leave. Minister, I would like to hear from you about these double standards of government, first of all for workers – some are entitled to frankly more favourable conditions, outlawed compared to others – then for businesses. Large companies with sufficient financial strength can offer them, but SMEs that are obviously not able to do so will be left out. Can you explain these different measures, as incomprehensible as they are unfair to citizens and businesses?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u20	Mrs Fonck, thank you for your question, which will allow me to re-establish some information about Parliament. I would like to distinguish between the situations of Proximus and BNP Paribas, because they are different. First, as far as Proximus is concerned, we have indeed been informed, in recent months, of the holding of an internal social consultation in Proximus, which has not yet been finalised. Even yesterday, internal meetings were held, at which additional remarks were made. Therefore, the government and the responsible minister gave Proximus very clear guidance, first of all by focusing on internal mobility within the company or mobility capabilities towards other public services, such as local authorities. This message is very clear, very consistent and very consistent from the government to Proximus. I come to the second point. On the basis of a dynamic of internal social dialogue which has not yet been achieved, we have indicated that we would take two parameters into account. The first is the question of the possible impact of a decision on public finances. The second is an extremely important parameter. This is the raising of the retirement age, which of course corresponds to the philosophy and determination of this government. We have a point of fragility when we compare ourselves to other European countries. We are therefore consistent: there are no double standards. The government will probably have to choose directions on this subject based on a social consultation that is not finalized at the time I speak to you. I wanted to clarify some of the information that was obviously not correctly transmitted. As far as BNP Paribas is concerned, we find ourselves in the situation where this company may wish, in the case of restructuring, to use the concept of a company in difficulty to bring a case to the government, more specifically to the Minister of Employment. As I speak to you, and here too I am clarifying the facts, no dossier has been submitted to the Minister for Employment. If that were the case, we would examine it on the basis of the regulations in force. I can confirm to you – because this is the essential thing – that we decided in the government agreement that we wanted to gradually extend the length of careers and thus delay the age at which retirement is possible, which has been confirmed in agreements with the social partners. As I recall, it is expected that it will be 60 years from 2020. We are therefore in a period of transition in which a gradual decline in the retirement age is taking place. For each case, the government is therefore analysing the situation and seeing, in line with its ambition to lengthen the length of careers, which are the best possible decisions to be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u21	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. I recall that, for Proximus, the government had given the green light to the start of the negotiations when everyone knew what was emerging. I think that we are in a situation of double standards, with perverse effects which are the result of the management of the pension file backwards. First, it would have been necessary to work on measures to alleviate career ends and on taking into account difficult occupations. You have worked on the age of 66 and then 67 years and on tightening the pre-pension conditions, as a series of companies rush to get derogation systems trying to bypass the state. We will see what the government will decide, but it would be shocking if the state could circumvent the law when it suits it. In the end, many workers will not be able to benefit and many small businesses, which do not have the kidneys as strong as these big boxes, will not be able to set up this type of pre-pension paid leave and which does not comply with the laws.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u22	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this week the press announced the discovery of a video, not a simple clip, but a video of about ten hours of shootings of a nuclear installation manager. Admit it's a little surprising! Nuclear facilities are sensitive sites. This refers to nuclear power plants that produce electricity, but also Mol's research centre or the IRE in Fleurus, which are important. According to our information, but I would like you to complete them, the level of threat to these nuclear facilities would be 2 unless new elements can be added. I believe that this fact is not benign and requires a thorough reflection and a detailed assessment of the risks and threat. This is tantamount to asking the question of the army's presence at these facilities. For example, in France, there is a gendarmerie platoon dedicated to this mission. The safety culture has been undermined inside the Tihange power plant, for example. I ask the question: how is this safety culture developed outside? Recall that the city of Huy has twice asked for your intervention at the power plant. You've always said no. It now calls for more consultation on the subject. The approach is that the police should do this job. I'm coming to my question. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, is the physical protection of nuclear installations and critical infrastructure sufficient today in Belgium, given the risks and analyses of the OCAM?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u23	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, you will recall our discussions in committee on 13 January. I was then questioning you following a request from the city of Huy to strengthen security measures around the Tihange power plant. You said, "Nothing indicates a specific threat to nuclear power plants, either in Doel or Tihange." A month later, however, we learn that one of the most senior Belgian nuclear scientists was monitored, filmed and monitored in a very professional manner, particularly by the one who is considered to be one of the logisticians of the attacks in Paris. What were the intentions and objectives of this group? What was his target? We don't know. On the other hand, we know that your services have owned this video since November 30th. In addition, the Federal Nuclear Control Agency was immediately notified. Therefore, I do not understand why, when you have been in possession of this registration since 30 November, you are replying to me on 13 January that there is no particular risk or threat to nuclear installations. Do I have to remind you, Deputy Prime Minister, that it has been a year and a half since a sabotage took place in Doel 4 and that, again, we still know nothing, whether it is about its author or its intentions? Should I remind you that an international report recently identified our nuclear power plants as a weak point in terms of cyberattack? Of course, we must not give in to panic. However, between this and the magnitude of the risks, there is a gap, which I would ask you to close today. Now, it is well known that our facilities are preferred targets. What specific and complementary measures will you take not only to respond to the request of the City of Huy, but also to protect and reassure workers, residents and all citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u24	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, is this really a surprise? Is it a surprise that our sensitive facilities, be they nuclear, electrical, chemical, airport – we talked about a few weeks ago – are the subject of the particular attention of the terrorist threat? No, of course not! Already in 2001, if we remember, Al-Qaeda stated very clearly that infrastructure, vital facilities in Western countries, were clearly a target and a goal. We have therefore known this for a long time, and for some time now controls have been strengthened. I again had the opportunity to ask the Foreign Minister yesterday about this. He replied: "Yes, of course, at the level of the National Security Authority (ANS), the State Security, the Federal Police, the Federal Agency for Nuclear Control, the controls are strengthened." I believe, however, that the public has the right to be reassured in this situation, this particular climate in the light of the media's revelations about what is now being discovered. If controls are strengthened, minister, could you, of course, within the limits of what you can disclose, tell us what procedures are in place in sensitive infrastructure in general, not just nuclear? Could you also explain to us the monitoring set up to evaluate these measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I will answer the general questions concerning all the installations and then I will refer to the nuclear sites. Following a process of specific identification and designation provided for in the Act of 1 July 2011 on the safety and protection of critical installations, the operator of a critical infrastructure, designated as such, is subject to a number of obligations, such as the designation within its infrastructure of a contact point for permanently accessible security and the development and implementation of an internal security plan. This plan shall contain at least permanent but also gradual security measures to be applied according to the threat, as defined by the OCAM. Under the same Act, each sectoral authority is required to establish an inspection service for the sector or subsector under its jurisdiction to verify the existence of such a safety plan and, where appropriate, to make recommendations for its improvement. The intervals of these inspections depend on the sector and are fixed by Royal Decree. Beyond the critical infrastructure approach, it is the responsibility of the Crisis Centre, on behalf of the Minister of the Interior, to take precautionary and protective measures within the framework of Ministerial Circular MFO-5 of 23 December 2002 on the basis of a threat assessment. Measures are therefore applied for certain sites. Specifically for nuclear sites, the file with the video you are talking about is processed by the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office and details are covered by the secrecy of the investigation. The security and intelligence services and the AFCN, as you said, Mr. Nollet, were made aware of the existence of this video in early December 2015. A threat assessment was conducted by OCAM. The Commission considered that there was indeed a threat to the person but not to the nuclear sites. There are no indications of threats directly to nuclear facilities. At that time and to date, we have no indication that there is a specific threat to nuclear installations in Belgium. Already after the attacks of 13 November, as a precaution, AFCN called on the nuclear sector to increase vigilance. You will understand that, for security reasons, I cannot give the details of these measures publicly. The nuclear sector is one of the best protected sectors. The safety and security of nuclear materials and facilities are monitored on an ongoing basis by AFCN and BelV. There are two types of measures: safety and security. Finally, as part of the debate on the key tasks of the police, we will create a body of surveillance and protection. One of the tasks of this corps will be to provide external protection for sensitive sites of which nuclear facilities are part. This corps will replace the local police who are currently monitoring and who are conducting very regular patrols around nuclear sites. In addition, next week I will present a proposal within the government to deliberate on capabilities for this external protection pending the operationality of this body. The relevant organizations, the AFCN, the OCAM and the police are working closely together to ensure the protection of nuclear facilities. They regularly re-evaluate security measures on the basis of new information, such as concrete threats or their experiences on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for this reminder of procedure. However, let me really draw your attention to the urgency and the need to properly monitor the facilities and reassure the residents. Nevertheless, this video was found in the context of the investigation following the November 13 attacks in Paris. It's an important element. I take note of the new measures put in place and the existence of the special police unit. But let me once again draw your attention to the need for increased vigilance for the sensitive sites you mention in your response.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u27	Minister, at last you're going to move! Finally, new measures! You are submitting a note next week to the Council of Ministers, as I understand it, in order to take temporary measures pending the arrival of this new body. Finally! I must tell you that I did not understand you, you who are so quick to intervene when it comes to Brussels. You were almost going to go to Molenbeek yourself to see in each of the houses. But to go to the nuclear facilities, "we had all the time, we had to see." Yet you had this essential information! Frankly, I didn't understand these double standards. But you moved. On the other hand, I find it difficult to follow you when you say that our nuclear facilities are among the best protected. You didn't answer me about Doel 4. There is still nothing known about the sabotage, considered terrorist by the former head of the OCAM, or who is responsible for it, or what are the reasons and motives for it: no, nothing. You say that our facilities are the best protected, but they are also the weakest in terms of cyberattack in Kazakhstan and North Korea. You go hard and say they're the best protected. On this subject, you still need to move forward and evolve, and you know it well.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u28	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u29	Mr President, Minister, I have already asked you a few questions about the problems of transit migrants and smugglers on the Belgian coast. You know that in the local areas, the water is on the lips of the police. The governor of West Flanders earlier asked for forty extra agents and you immediately responded by promising eight additional agents. In plenary, I asked you to appoint an additional official to handle the alien files and to take action against the smugglers of human beings in Zeebrugge. You took immediate action at that time. That is good, because we must do everything we can to distinguish between transit migrants and war refugees who deserve our support. The flow of migrants does not stop, quite the contrary. Until this weekend, 318 illegal immigrants were arrested, 60% of whom were in Zeebrugge and the rest in De Panne, Veurne and Middelkerke. It's mopping with the tap open. The illegals are arrested and released immediately to find their way to Britain. Companies suffer damage. For example, the tarpaulins of trucks are cut open. For the illegals, too, the neck-breaking tours they pull are extremely dangerous. Now the tourism sector in the region is wondering what additional efforts need to be made in terms of safety. You promised eight extra agents, but that's not enough. Before the holiday, you announced you'd be putting in eighty extra agents. So far, I've heard from the shipping police and the local police that no additional agent has been added. I'm afraid this is being put on the long track. The distribution plan which was announced and which would divide war refugees between the different cities and municipalities has still not entered into force. The water is on the lips of the shipping police. I hope you will take action. In 2015 you received 25 million euros to recruit additional staff. That's good for about 255 full-time equivalents. Will the 80 promised agents of those 255 be taken? Have they already been recruited in 2015 and have they already received training or have they not? When can we count on those 80 extra agents on the coast?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u30	Mr President, Mr Demon, you can not only count on police officers, you can also count on police inspectors, and perhaps even captains. Cops are one category, but there are other categories of cops. In your first question, you probably referred to the budgetary control of early April 2015, when we did indeed set aside a budget for the recruitment of exactly 244 people. Those recruitments have also started. I can tell you that 48 people have joined Special Forces at the moment, at the FGP-Terro 101 and in Zaventem 23. In short, 172 out of 244 people have already been recruited. A number of recruitments are still ongoing, for specific tasks such as mobility and for specialists. The rest of the vacancies will be filled through internal mobility. Those recruitments continue. The 80 people you spoke of are not included here. We released 400 million in interdepartmental facilities, of which 300 million were allocated by the government 14 days ago. On the coast the equivalent of eighty full-time policemen was indeed assigned. Forty persons are intended for the shipping police and forty for the CIK and for the reserve. These people will be recruited. We are now putting everything in place for their recruitment. Training will start in May. In the meantime, we will fill the vacancies further through mobility and through the internal reserve. The aim is to train the additional recruits, but that takes time. In the meantime, capacity is being attracted through internal mobility. The decision was made 14 days ago. You can blame me for the fact that there are only eight people on the ground today. That's not true, by the way. There's more already. Eighty aren't there yet. This will be followed gradually. I have the same objectives as you, in particular to ensure that there is no situation on the coast as in Calais, and that the tourist season can start under favourable conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u31	Minister, I hope you realise what you are saying. You answer that you want to deploy additional policemen on the coast. You are also announcing additional measures against moving motorcycle gangs. In addition, you announced this week, following the break-ins at Media Markt, that you want to take action against break-ins in shops and that's good. Of course, we must also see action. Must wait until mid-May 2016, that's not good. You want to systematically deploy additional policemen, which is good. I hope, however, that we will get to the promised number of 80 policemen soon, because our coast needs these people absolutely.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u32	Mr President, Minister, this morning the press reported on your intention to launch a plan for simplification and tax relief for start-ups, in particular for the one-off services of citizens in the context of the collaborative digital economy. These are most often online platforms that act as intermediaries between citizens. These platforms generate one-off benefits as well as income. For the time being, these revenues must be reported as miscellaneous income and are therefore taxed at 33%. The idea would be to create a springboard for entrepreneurship. Favourable taxation could create the urge for a large number of users to launch themselves, eventually to discover a talent, a vocation and to sustain this activity, perhaps under a complementary or other independent status. This is proof that this government is working in practice for employment and economic growth. This is also a clear signal to the self-employed and SMEs in our country. Minister, I stress the importance of your initiative. The collaborative digital economy is a sector of the future that needs to be encouraged. Moreover, rather than constraints or insecurity, the players in this sector of the future are waiting for the rules to be clarified so that they can coexist harmoniously with the so-called classic economy. Minister, can you give us more details about this plan and the objectives pursued? What are the areas of activity that will be primarily targeted by your plan? What is the status of the consultations with the sector and the Minister of Finance? Can we have an idea of the time frame within which you wish to implement this plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, like you, I see that our economy is changing. New economic models are developing abroad but also in our country. These new models are often based on the collaborative economy. It has the characteristic of lowering the threshold of entry for consumers at the level of certain services - in particular transport - which are still limited to a very small audience, but also for entrepreneurs. It has never been easier to start as an entrepreneur thanks to this collaborative economy system. At the moment, our legislation is not at all suited to this kind of economy. When a person wants to get involved in this system, he or she has to declare his or her income in various ways, bend to a very heavy administration and to a tax not at all adapted. I am currently negotiating with the sectors and my government colleagues to put in place a clear and stable framework based on two elements. People who engage in the provision of casual and reduced services must have access to a simple, transparent system with very light taxation. People with increasing activity and starting to have professional characteristics must work in the same way as full-time self-employed people, so that competition is at the same level. It is this balance that I seek to find, knowing that below a certain threshold, activity will be considered as occasional while beyond a certain threshold, activity will be subject to the same rules as those to which the independents are subject. However, what is important is that payments can be made electronically, allowing for very efficient and transparent taxation. As I said, it is time for consultation with the sectors and my colleagues, the aim being to ensure the development of this new kind of economy and entrepreneurship in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u34	Minister, thank you for your answers. I said and I repeat, the collaborative or participative economy is a future economy. It must be encouraged. As you said, these actors must be supported and the rules must be clarified. We've seen the fiasco and chaos that can be witnessed when politicians don't take their responsibilities. Everyone knows the case of Uber in the Brussels Region, whose internet application had to be closed overnight despite its popularity especially among young people, due to a lack of political will. That's unfortunate. Minister, we are ready to support you in defending this sector. We will, of course, remain very attentive to this plan for the future. You can count on us to come back with concrete and constructive proposals on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u35	Mr Minister, you have granted an exit permit to someone who is popularly referred to as the Muizen's vampire. The name alone suggests the worst, and in practice it does. The man committed three particularly violent rapes with murder between 1971 and 1972. When he was 21 years old, he was arrested for that. After that, he was also convicted of nine other rapes and five attempted rape. For that, he was sentenced to death, converted into life imprisonment. Despite the fact that the prison director and other bodies had made it clear in an opinion that the man should not be allowed to go out, you decided to let him go out. Such exit permits shall normally be granted on legal, social or family grounds. That is not the case in this case, as has been shown in the press. It was a trip to a friend of his, who was ill, but nevertheless visited the person concerned in prison two months ago. Afterwards, he stated in the newspaper that he could have just as easily driven the car to prison, no problem. So the question is, why do you do that? In the last few weeks and months, you have been in dispute about the separation between the judiciary and the executive. I know that this is your right, a competence which belongs to the Minister, but I believe that after the Dutroux affair with criminal courts and the conditional release committee, we wanted to avoid any further intervention by a minister. Remember the Dutroux case. There too, the Minister eventually took initiatives of this kind, while Dutroux took advantage of them to commit terrible crimes that shocked the whole country. However, ministers still do. Minister, wouldn't you better consider taking up the advice of legal bodies and prison directors and keeping you away from giving this kind of engagement to prisoners?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u36	Mr President, Mr Dewinter, this is indeed an occasional leave, not a penitentiary leave. As a condition for this exit permit, I have stipulated that the exit, as you call it, would be accompanied by two persons who know the prisoner well and are used to dealing with prisoners, in particular with the person concerned. Going out has gone smoothly, and I have received a report on this. The strict conditions to which I had subject the dating have also guaranteed this. For example, they were not allowed to use alcohol or drugs, they were not allowed to appear in any way, and there was a ban on having any contact with victims in the broad sense. Mr Dewinter, this is indeed my competence, as you say, and it is granted to me by the Act on the External Legal Status of 2006. On the basis of the detention dossier, the more than eighty previous night-time permits and the analysis of the counterindications, I have made a reasoned and well-thought-out decision. I didn't go ice cream in one night. In fact, contrary to what you have said, I had a well-founded positive opinion from a prison director, who assessed the legality and opportunity of the exit permit. However, this positive opinion was converted into a negative opinion shortly afterwards, without this negative opinion being supported by new elements, whether legal or factual. Last time the prisoner was released for a day on occasion in 2011, not in 2006, and I did this, Mr Dewinter, to act in accordance with the humane treatment of detainees, especially long-term prisoners, who have the basic prison system as a philosophy, for social and moral reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u37	Mr President, Minister, you have just touched what is fundamentally wrong in our legal system. It is very doubtful whether the 18-year-old woman, the 19-year-old woman and the mother of three children, the three victims of the person concerned and their families agree with the interpretation you give to the social interpretation of the conditions of life of prisoners. The prisoner concerned says that he must be able to feel human and that he must be able to break the hopelessness of life imprisonment with such exit. For God's sake, we are talking about a lust killer who raped 13 women, killed three women and made five other rape attempts. As a minor, he may have raped a lot of other women for which he was never convicted because he was a minor. Such people, in my view and in the eyes of a large part of the population, do not deserve to go out and go out and eat cake in abbeys. Such people deserve the death penalty, which, if it were up to me, would also be executed. We cannot do that in our legal system, but they deserve at least life imprisonment, which should really be interpreted in this way. For me, that interpretation is behind bars.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u38	Mr President, my female colleagues are in the majority to support me in my question, which saddens the Open Vld colleagues. What do you want, we have always been more attentive to parity at home than at home! Minister, I have had a lot of opportunities to question you. I was doing it, a few weeks ago, about what I thought was – and you confirmed it – unacceptable practices in hospital with doctors who were overbilling or simply refusing to intervene with the patient who could not afford a private room. We agreed that this was unacceptable. In recent days, the media has broadcast a number of reports that have attracted our attention. I have found that you have reacted in a program, which not only confirms that these practices are still current but has highlighted others: the patient who pays more can, in summary, access a medical interview more quickly, which, you will agree, is quite intriguing. The more resources you have, the faster you can be treated and vice versa. If this proves to be correct, it seems to me quite abnormal because it runs counter to the very principle of equity and solidarity which are the foundations of our social security and our system of reimbursement of health care. You, like me, participated today in the King Baudouin Foundation in a citizen exchange of views in this regard. You have heard how much our fellow citizens are committed to this notion of solidarity. Unacceptable business practices, I said! We must not hide our face. We know that hospital institutions are in financial difficulty, and perhaps it is sometimes assumed that such practices are tolerated, given the shortage of specialists. The question of the return of fees also poses a major problem which can probably explain all this. So, Madam Minister, are you aware of this type of practice, against which we are insurgent as long as it is correct? What do you think? I am sure you share my conviction that they are unacceptable. So what are you going to do to ensure that this does not happen again in hospital institutions? Compared to difficult budgetary situations, you have announced a plan to refinance hospitals. We wait and, like Sister Anne, we see nothing coming! When are you going to present us with a concrete proposal to balance hospital budgets and put an end to such practices?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u39	Mr. Frédéric, as you said, I have already reacted in the report aired yesterday. With regard to doctors who refuse to treat a patient who does not take a single room and doctors who request a double honorarium because they would be better than others, I repeat that this is unacceptable. A doctor cannot select his patients on the basis of the choice of room or on the basis of the ability to pay a double rate. Every citizen has the right to health care of the same quality. That's for sure. This is therefore a serious misconduct against ethics; the Order of Physicians made this clear in its opinion of February 22, 2014. I understand very well the difficulties for patients in these circumstances. I also understand the emotion aroused when a hospital dares to write in an e-mail that at the normal rate, the wait is eight months while at the double rate, the appointment can be made during the month. I see that it is difficult for patients to file a complaint against the hospital where they are to receive care. But it is necessary that they file a complaint with the Order of Physicians, with their mutuality or with the hospital mediator. Anyway, that's unacceptable. We will put this on the table during discussions on the plan for the refinancing of hospitals. An appointment has already been set with the Chair of the Public Health Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u40	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. We have at least one concern: we condemn, we consider it unacceptable. You said that every citizen has the right to the same quality of health care. I share this concern, but I see on a daily basis that this is unfortunately not the case. In terms of initiative, you are telling me that we will discuss this again during the discussion on the refinancing of hospitals. I take note of this and will be extremely attentive to it. But I ask you now, in your capacity as Minister responsible for Health, to issue injunctions to the sector so that this type of practice is no longer implemented in any hospital institution in our country. It is about the health of our citizens and access to health for all on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u41	Mr President, Minister, fellow Members, doctors' organisations and four newspapers tell us that since the beginning of this year, a large proportion of the sickness funds have paid back the brake money to parents who consult with their child with the child or general practitioner. In other words, the consultation will be free. Colleagues, there is no free! Three quarters of that cost is borne by our federal health care, by you and me. A quarter or so comes from the patient's pocket, but this part is now going to pay the sickness funds as a commercial gift. Until a few weeks ago, these same sickness funds made a loud mistake about the limited reduction of their operating costs by a measure taken by the Minister. Suddenly they seem to have found money after all. Cui bono? Who's getting better? We know from international comparative studies that healthcare in Belgium is one of the most accessible and offers one of the fastest services on this globe. Our general practitioners and specialists are world champions in accessibility and service. Christian Mutualities suggest that up to 20% of patients delay their care for financial reasons. Figures and statistics... Mijn oude professor Statistiquek zei ooit tegen me: "Vercammen, statistics, it's like bikini: it provokes ideas, but it hides the essentials." Someone can postpone health care because they don't have food in the afternoon, but it might as well be about a 40-year-old who postpones a breast reconstruction or a facelift. Madam Minister, I know that you are full of our soft sector, the so-called non-profit sector. What will you do to counter these kinds of commercial-inspired advertising stunts at the expense of our social security, which already cracks in all its joints?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u42	Mr President, Mr Vercammen, this is not about bikini dressings, but about brake money that is paid back by the supplementary insurances of various sickness funds for consultation with a general practitioner or a specialist. Sometimes this is limited to children of six years of age, but sometimes also to children of 18 years of age. I am not in favour of these interventions by the sickness funds. After all, the brake money has a clear purpose. The brake money has been put in place to discourage over-consumption of care and to guide patients to the most appropriate care. For example, the brake charge is much lower for a consultation with a general practitioner than with a specialist. Of course, financial accessibility is very important. For this there is the compulsory insurance system, the OMNIO statute, the maximum invoice and also the social third-party payment scheme that we have installed. The reimbursement of rem is in the supplementary insurances of some sickness funds which are not paid by the government but by their member contributions. In the coalition agreement we have accepted that there is also a need for reform in these supplementary insurances. We want these refunds in supplementary insurance to be more evidence-based, but also not to give additional benefits which are contrary to general policy principles, such as brake money. We are talking to the sickness funds to develop a multi-annual framework. The content, practice and the race between the sickness funds have certainly been taken into account in this supplementary insurance. We would also like to move towards a scientifically based added value for supplementary insurance. Of course, we all have to do this at the same time. After all, you can see that they are competing with each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u43	Thank you for your clear answer, Madam Secretary. As an N-VA, we underline our commitment to optimizing and keeping our health insurance and social security affordable. Responsion is in our party's DNA. In budgetary difficult times, we are looking with concern at the debate on the decoupling of lifestyles and the reimbursement of expensive medicines. We all have a responsibility in keeping our social security affordable, both the health care providers such as sickness funds, nurses and doctors, and those who need the care, the patients. The patient is also a responsibility smurf. Isn't that right, N-VA fraction?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u44	Madam Secretary, on 6 February De Morgen devoted an article to The Life School, a training centre known for his alternative ways of training. There are two pathways known, nutritionist and health expert, which........................................................................................................................................................................................................ We know, among other things, what we call the new Germanic medicine, a therapy which is based on the fact that, as far as cancer therapies are concerned, we must explicitly distance ourselves from ordinary doctors and doctors, which, in my opinion, is extremely dangerous. It goes even further, however, because the inventor of these therapies, Ryke Geerd Hamer, has now come into contact with the court both in Germany and in France, because of the fateful consequences of these therapies. I have also understood that the School of Life would have been recognized by the Flemish Community and would even be entitled to training cheques and thus to indirect public funding. For you prime evidence-based medicine on alternatives, which often tend to quacks. Today I have been informed that the Provincial Medical Commission has lodged a complaint on this matter. I would like to ask you three very specific questions. First of all, are you already aware of that complaint? Secondly, are there any indications that the School of Life encourages unlawful practice of medicine? Thirdly, do you provide for additional actions or measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u45	Mr Janssens, I also learned about practices in the School of Life a dozen days ago through the media. According to the article it was about training courses supported by training cheques. That aspect falls within the competence of Flemish minister Muyters. I immediately instructed my administration, the Public Health Office, to have the dossier analysed by the Provincial Medical Commission, to check whether there are any practices in the Life School that we should be concerned about from a public health point of view and whether we should take action. In the meantime, the Provincial Medical Commission has completed its analysis. It has indeed been established that some persons of the School of Life pursue a profession under the law on the exercise of health care professions. On the other hand, people who do not pursue a health profession are also involved. The Provincial Medical Committee considers that there is unlawful practice of medicine. You thus have an answer to your second question. This committee operates entirely autonomously and, after the analysis, decided to file a complaint with the public prosecutor. My services are responsible for examining the additional measures imposed on persons covered by the law on the exercise of health care professions. I have also sent a letter to my colleague, Mr Muyters, informing him that my services see serious problems in the operation of the School of Life. I asked him to take the necessary action, within his competence, namely the supporting training cheques. I'm sure he'll be willing to.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u46	Madam Health Minister, I can only thank you for the precise follow-up. You will also continue to clearly indicate that evidence-based medicine primes on quacks. I understand that Flemish MEP Brusseel will today ask Minister Muyters a few questions about the subsidy of such education. Public funds cannot be used for training in such dangerous situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u47	Minister, two years ago, the BBI launched an investigation into Electrabel's tax manipulation. The BBI started that investigation on the basis of an earlier investigation by our energy watchdog, the energy supervisor CREG. The CREG had found that the Belgian subsidiary Electrabel had paid no less than EUR 495 million too much for gas supplies to the French parent company Suez. Your partymate, then Minister Bourgeois, was clear about that at the time. I quote him: 'If the facts are true about De Tijd on Saturday, then it is a matter of deceit.' A few months ago, I asked you a question about this. You didn't want to explain specific files at the time, but in the meantime, the BBI has completed its investigation with a notice of change. The BBI considers that Electrabel wrongly shifted 495 million from the taxable base from Belgium to France. That is unacceptable. The IRS is of the same opinion. I actually think Electrabel's reaction is even worse. Electrabel's willing to accept it, but he won't pay anything. After all, the company wants to bring in a whole pile of deductions from the past. Of course, whether or not one can insert these subtractions does not change the facts themselves. What else will the BBI do in this case? Indeed, the Income Tax Code does not only provide for administrative sanctions such as tax increases. It also provides for the possibility for your party colleague, Prime Minister Bourgeois, to file a criminal charge at the court. I would like to hear from you what further steps will be taken in the dossier, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u48	Mr Vanvelthoven, you yourself have already taken note of this. As Minister of Finance, I cannot, of course, talk in detail about individual tax files, but believe me, I have a great deal of sympathy for your argument in this matter. I will therefore say a number of things to you in this connection. You ask me to take steps regarding the sanctioning of Electrabel. You make it appear as if by definition this can be done, which is not the case, however, I must disappoint you. Let me explain to you why. You say that tax increases can be imposed on Electrabel. Indeed, you are, and will be, 100% right. The BBI, which is the competent authority, has imposed tax increases on Electrabel. However, there are also tax deductions for companies, as you said. So they also apply to Electrabel. I am thinking of past losses, of the definitively taxed income, the FDI, and of course also of the notional interest deduction, the deduction for risk capital. That's the law she was when this file started. These principles have been in place for 20 years and over and I cannot, of course, change them retroactively. In addition, I would also like to point out that this case has absolutely not been concluded for the BBI and myself. We will decide in due course, first of all the BBI, what possible legal action could still be taken on this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u49	Minister, I understand that we are only playing a preliminary match today, and that the final match will have to be played at a later date. I believe that the signal must be very clear. Electrabel, who knows exactly the price of gas, has knowingly set up a system to shift taxable profits from Belgium to France. The BBI has now established that. We cannot allow it to stop at the conclusion that a tax increase of 10% or more would not apply because the company cancels profits with tax deductions from the past. Electrabel has set up this construction precisely with the intention of allowing the mountain tax deductions from the past to exist in order to use them in the future. It is clear to me, Minister, that people have deliberately tried to circumvent our tax legislation. I do not yet use the word "de-diving" at the moment. There is only one clear signal here from the government and from the Minister responsible, namely that such matters must be sent by the BBI to the court.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u50	Madam Minister, it is not up to SNCB staff or rail users to pay for your austerity measures, let alone to do so twice! First, the quality of service continues to decline. Indeed, lines are deleted - whether they are RER or Thalys - the journey time increases, punctuality decreases, the number of railway workers is reduced. Second, the user pays more for more mediocrity! [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u51	Let Mrs. Grovonius speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u52	Minister, you don't always understand the numbers very well. Similarly, sometimes you don't understand public procurement. As far as tariff freedom is concerned, it is only a matter of common sense. People can't be asked to pay more to get less. Instead of thinking of us as pears or even as jerks, please tell us that what I read this morning in the press – i.e., the idea of tariff freedom – will not be implemented! Minister, I invite you to get back on track quickly before you send this convoy you're supposed to lead straight into the wall!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this morning we received a taste of the new management agreement. This actually involves the abolition of stations, the abolition of lines, connections and points of contact, the abolition of early and late trains, the abolition of train escorts and services, but more expensive tickets. In fact, that remains very true to the government's adage: paying more for less service. What bothers me most is that the ordinary workers and the students will have to pay for this. Those who have no alternative but to use trains in the morning and evening will have to pay the bill in that proposal: at least 4% and actually without any end date. Understand who can. We have stated here on several occasions that our country is world champion in terms of the number of traffic jams. Last year we held a wide-ranging debate in the Chamber on climate change, on the consequences of global warming and on the measures to be taken. That could be forgotten. What view do you have as a competent minister? What vision does this government have on mobility? Another thing that surprises me. Two weeks ago, I was standing here asking questions about raising prices during rush hour. You made it clear at that time: let us be clear today, let us stop the rumors: there was never any plan to increase the prices of subscriptions during peak hours. I am therefore opposed to this. I therefore share the advice of the trade unions and employers given through the Central Business Council. Should I interpret it in such a way that you are against making prices more expensive during rush hour, but are in favour of making tout court more expensive?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u54	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in peace and quiet: SNCB faces enormous challenges to fully incorporate its role as the backbone of our public transport system in a country that is groaning under traffic jams. SNCB gets a lot of tax money for that: EUR 435 per person, per taxpayer per year, that's not nothing. We can therefore expect something from SNCB. Those expectations are reflected in the management contract. In the meantime, this management contract has been under way for several weeks, perhaps even a few months. This morning, there was a lot to read in the press about this. What do we notice? There are a number of questions which Mr Cornu has already raised on several occasions. There is greater tariff freedom. We never knew exactly what that means. Now we've been able to read it. We also want greater freedom in the areas of points of contact, stations, stops and so on. If the reports in the newspapers are correct, however, there is little to the point. What's up with that? What can the government or the traveller expect of SNCB for that freedom, for these generous resources? Madam Minister, I believe that the texts on this point are not enough for the time being, at least if we can believe the reporting. We could discuss this for a long time, but I shall confine myself to four specific questions. Firstly, what is the status of the document that we have been able to read through the newspaper this morning? Does that have any meaning? Is that a guiding text for the management agreement? Secondly, what is the timing of that management agreement? I read in the same newspaper that you announce that the decisions will be taken before spring. Spring starts in principle on March 21st. I don't know exactly when the meteorological spring starts. Can you give me a calendar for this yet? Thirdly, tariff freedom. We don't read about a discount card for families anymore. We do read about price increases for commuting subscriptions, 4 % per year at the top of the index. Is this the way we're going? I believe that this is detrimental to commuting and to the modal split that is finally heading in the right direction. Finally, has the Advisory Committee been consulted on this? Will this happen in the next few weeks?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I regret that the work carried out for months on the various issues relating to mobility is once again being leaked. This is a working document from SNCB in the context of discussions on the management contract. These recurrent leaks in the press do not bring the serenity required to address these issues, especially disinformation more than they inform and fuel passions. The version that is in the hands of journalists is obviously not a final document but the basis for a work between technicians. It has not received any political validation to date. The current discussions are only the first step in finalizing the management contract, which covers many aspects other than pricing: cleanliness in trains, punctuality, the number of seats in trains, the attractiveness of the train, wifi in trains, ambition in terms of supply and the maintenance of the network. By definition, a management contract establishes balanced rules governing the relationship between each public undertaking and the shareholder State. The public authority formulates proposals that are subsequently validated or not validated by the government. This last stage is still to be started. Discussions within the Inter-Kabinette Working Group have not yet begun. It is clear that these will take place within the framework established by the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u56	Minister, I regret the aspect of your answer, which suggests that it is still a working document. I would have liked to hear that as Minister of Mobility, you made clear commitments and provided clear guarantees and benchmarks. You should have told us that there will be no disconnection between the rates and the elements related to the quality of the service, that there will be no disconnection between the rate and the punctuality, that there will be no increase in the rates for young people, students, seniors and families. I would also have liked to hear that parliamentarians would, as the law provides, have a say in what is being discussed and decided today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u57	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. If I were to turn around this chair the same circles as you in your answer, I'd have to make some really weird moves. After all, you are making a very big turn in order not to answer my question. Two weeks ago, in the context of the CRB's opinion, I asked you very specifically about tariffs. You made it quite clear at that time that you absolutely cannot increase these rates. Today I don't hear that at all. You're talking about Wi-Fi on the trains. I think that's important, but there must still be trains.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u58	Mr President, Minister, I would like to thank you for your reply and for your clarification, particularly as regards the status of the document we have been able to take note of. That is important, especially with regard to tariffs. The current management agreement dates back to 2008 and was still negotiated by Minister Vervotte. It then made a link between the quality of service and the tariff structure. This is very important, because it has kept the rates fairly well under control in recent years. We cannot accept that a new management agreement would make a catch-up to the tariff increases, which were not made because of this link to quality, now be implemented in one-two-three. Madam Minister, we are counting on you to ensure that the management agreement that is to come will ensure better quality for more travellers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u59	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u60	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 17 February 2016, I propose that you enter on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the draft law on the statute and supervision of insurance or reinsurance undertakings, Nos 1584/1 to 8; - the legislative proposal (Mrs Sonja Becq, Mr Gautier Calomne, Mr Gilles Foret and Mr Philippe Goffin, Mrs Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, Mr Raf Terwingen, Mrs Carina Van Cauter and Mr Egbert Lachaert) amending the Legal Code as regards the legal internship, No. 1632/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 17 February 2016, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the draft law on the status and control of insurance or reinsurance undertakings, Nos. 1584/1 to 8; - the bill (Ms. Sonja Becq, MM. Gautier Calomne, Gilles Foret and Philippe Goffin, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, Raf Terwingen, Carina Van Cauter and Egbert Lachaert) amending the Judicial Code with regard to judicial training, No. 1632/1. Mrs Goedele Uyttersprot will report orally. Ms. Goedele Uyttersprot will report orally. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u61	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will briefly explain how the draft law supplementing and amending the Social Criminal Code and various provisions of social criminal law have been discussed. In his introductory statement, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Work, Kris Peeters, explained that the text aims inter alia to update the definitions of infringements and sanctions relating to the prevention of psychosocial stress at work. Psychosocial stress at work includes stress, violence, harassment and unwanted sexual behaviour at work. The Minister for Justice, Mr Koen Geens, then explained in his introductory statement the content of other parts of the draft Social Criminal Code bill. Where necessary, a number of technical corrections are made in relation to criminal law provisions, which have already been found in other legislative texts. There is also coordination with other provisions already included in the Social Criminal Code, which must be corrected for inconsistencies in the text itself. The Minister pointed out that the Social Criminal Code and the draft law had a long history. In fact, preparations for the draft law have already started in the previous legislature. It is the final piece of the Social Criminal Code in our country. In the meantime, according to the Minister, the Social Criminal Code has proved its usefulness in the field. Finally, the introductory statement by the Secretary of State for Combating Social Fraud, Privacy and the North Sea, Mr Bart Tommelein, follows. In turn, he stressed the importance of the Social Staff Code in the fight against social fraud. For him, the proposed text is also the final part of the enforcement chain in the prosecution and sanctioning policies in which administration and justice play an important role. The Social Criminal Code is involved for all actors, inspectors and labour auditors in the fight against social fraud, the day-to-day working tool. During the general discussion, Mr Christian Brotcorne, on behalf of his group, indicated that he would support the necessary draft law. He does, however, have a question about Article 189 of the Social Criminal Code, which will be returned to later discussions. Mr Van Hecke also indicated that he would support the draft law and pointed out that the Social Criminal Code had entered into force four years ago. The law of 6 June 2010 will not be subject to a thorough review until spring 2016. The Minister has written a four-pronged order for this. Mr Van Hecke regretted the late timing of the evaluation. The results could have been included in the present draft law. Mr Sonja Becq pointed out that at the time a titanic work preceded the drafting of the Social Criminal Code. It hopes that the Code has led to a simpler and more efficient application of social legislation. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I would like to announce that our group will support the draft law. To my question on Article 189 of the Social Criminal Code, the Minister of Justice will reply later in the discussion. Mr Monica De Coninck, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, drew attention to the preparation which preceded the establishment of the Social Criminal Code in the previous legislature. The purpose of the codification is to promote transparency and efficiency. Like the previous speakers, it believes that an evaluation is necessary. The sp.a. Group will support this bill. Finally, Mr Sophie De Wit, on behalf of the N-VA, stresses the importance of the drafting of the Social Criminal Code, which follows the structure of the Criminal Code, thus improving clarity. After the general discussion there is the reply of the Minister of Justice, Koen Geens. The next item is the article-by-article discussion, discussion and vote on a number of amendments requiring further clarification. In the end, the draft law is passed unanimously in committee. So much for my report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u63	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we still wish to table and defend an amendment. The amendment, which you have been given the written version, is intended to ensure that the sanctioning act is incorporated into the legislation a certain degree of accountability, including for workers who operate in illegal situations and who may incur penalties, and does not apply to illegally staying third-country nationals who have lodged a complaint against the employer. We ask this because the non-declaration of employment often takes place under pressure from the employer. In addition, there is a large twilight zone, as stated here in the legislation, knowingly and willingly carrying out undeclared work. This applies a fortiori to victims of trafficking in human beings, for which Chapter 4 of the Act of 11 February 2013 has just introduced a facilitation of complaints against malicious employers. If there is no legal certainty for the persons concerned and if the lodging of a complaint does not immunise them, that uncertainty will have a dissuasive effect. Many people who are the victims of such a situation will no longer dare to complain.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u64	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have been able to conduct a thorough discussion in committee. Generally speaking, the draft does not pose any problems because it is a question of adapting and supplementing the law. Since the adoption of the law and its entry into force in 2011, new legislation has been adopted which had to be integrated into the Social Criminal Code. I also referred in committee to the very long period that has elapsed since the drafting of the text, the advice and the final submission, which led to several legislative changes following the opinions given, which were subsequently incorporated into the text. However, I will not go back to that. When we talk about the text, it is very important to note that the law has existed since 2011. It is therefore very important to make a thorough assessment. What happened in 2010 and with its entry into force in 2011 is, of course, historic. It has been working for 10 years to try to integrate all social legislation into a single large text, to facilitate work on the ground for the social inspection services, for the labour audit services, for labour law banks and so on. That has been a very good thing and we have always supported that exercise. That is why it is also important, if some changes are to be made now, to make a thorough assessment. For example, this evaluation could be about the hierarchy of sanctions, because it was new to work with four levels, and about the efficiency of the measures. We can also ask ourselves whether the Social Criminal Code has a more dissuasive effect than previous legislation, which was introduced through laws containing various provisions. Are the records of the social inspection effectively monitored and sanctioned? Is there any progress in this respect in relation to the situation before the Social Criminal Code? Does it work faster and more efficiently today? Such questions seem to me to be important for an evaluation. The Minister had also announced that an evaluation would take place in spring. We would have made that evaluation better before making the changes that are now being made. However, if an in-depth evaluation is to be carried out, we think that is a good thing. I hope that the elements I have now indicated can be included in a thorough evaluation. In general, I think that we should carry out a regular thorough review of the more complex legislation. Colleagues, there has actually been only a number of articles discussed. One of these discussed articles is the subject of Amendment No 2 tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 10, which we tabled for the plenary session, building on the question I raised during the discussion. This was Article 31 and now Article 32 of the text. It is about the changes in relation to undeclared work, in general terms undeclared work. For the sake of clarity, today undeclared work or undeclared work is always punishable by the employer, but by the employee or the person who carries out the work only if he also receives a benefit. That may not be common knowledge. Now, the preliminary draft that has been submitted provides for an extension to persons who perform regular work, whether as an employee, an official or a self-employed person, and who also add to it in black. They too are punishable. That makes sense, and we have no problem with that. The draft law that was finally tabled in the Chamber shows that a further step is being taken. The criterion that a person already carries out regular work falls away, so that anyone who knowingly and willingly does work in a subordinate context can also be punished in such a way as to define "s'. I have to say that this may make sense in the first instance, but I did ask questions about this in committee. We are now going to put the weakest people in charge, prosecute them, and they can be punished. This could have a perverse effect. What could be the result of this? There are real crooked employers. People can really be victims of human trafficking. They are used for 2 or 3 euros per hour, but they have no OCMW support, no unemployment support, no sick cash, no regular work, no income. All right, they work in black and they shouldn't, but they are victims of malicious practices and trafficking in human beings. In the fight against illegal practices, it is important that these people can also complain, that they can be heard, that they can report to deal with the fight against malicious structures. What's the risk today? Suppose someone is convinced to file a complaint and asks if he himself will be punished. Then today we can say: no, you will not be punished. That is often very important for the person making the report to take that step. It is also a very important element in the structure of the dossier. If this text is approved and someone wants to convince someone to file a complaint or to file a complaint, and that person asks if he himself will be punished, they will have to answer: yes, you can be punished. The risk is that that report will not happen. That is the risk of extending the criminalisation to that very vulnerable group. So it can have a perverse effect. Then we have to make a decision. Either we can punish a few more people, people who have no benefits and no income and are victims of trafficking in human beings. We may then be able to punish a few dozen a year, impose a fine on them that they cannot pay, with the perverse effect that they will be less willing to make a report. So there will be fewer files to fight against the real crooked practices. That is the balance to be struck. If we have to make that assessment, we are going to fight as hard as possible against the malicious organisations and employers who abuse and exploit the weakness of people. That is why we are asking that we do not go that far. The original text of the preliminary draft was a good text. I do not understand why we have gone a step further between the preliminary draft and the final text of the draft. With what objective has this been achieved, given the perverse effect it can generate? We therefore propose in our amendment that we return to the text of the preliminary draft. In this way, the fight against serious social fraud, and especially against those who organise them and abuse the weak situation of people in need, can be tackled as a matter of priority. It is not the people who are actually the victims of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u65	Mr President, I would like to come back to the two amendments tabled, on the one hand, by the sp.a and on the other, by the Green Group in the European Parliament. In future, we can also punish undeclared workers who do not have benefits. The adaptation of the Social Criminal Code will make it possible to punish anyone who does not work. We were in a very peculiar situation where only employers and people who receive benefits can be penalised, while people who are employees or who have jobs elsewhere cannot be penalised for undeclared work. This meant in the past that employers often received heavy fines for undeclared work and that benefit recipients often had to pay back their benefits or benefits received wrongly. I also refer to the beginning of the legislature. In my policy paper, I made it clear that social fraud is a crime and that crimes must be punishable. There is no point in establishing a crime and then doing nothing with it afterwards. The argument that everyone is equal before the law and everyone should be punishable by a similar situation must apply here. It can't be that for one thing something is criminal and not for the other. It is time for everyone in our society to realise that undeclared work is a crime. Some people are trying to talk to me that a little undeclared work is good for the economy, but it's not. A little black work isn't good, any more than it is working in black. Let's finally pierce that balloon completely. After all, those who do not work illegally do not build up social rights. If you're working illegally, you can't get benefits if you're out of work. Anyone who does not work and gets sick is not insured. If something goes wrong on the work floor, then the undeclared worker has no right whatsoever, even if the company where he is employed in black goes bankrupt. So undeclared work isn't okay. We consider flash checks and fines for other forms of crime, such as traffic offences, to be quite normal, but when it comes to controls and fines on undeclared work, I note that some people and politicians are always busy. I don't understand. I shall come back to the proposals contained in the amendment. I do not understand why there should be an exemption for people residing illegally on our territory. I do not understand how we can explain to the people that undeclared work is wrong, but that it should be allowed for people who are staying here illegally. The Social Criminal Code is clear: the penalties laid down therein can be imposed. The issue is not that they will be imposed, they can be imposed, and there are penalties at level 1 with a maximum of EUR 600. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is exploitation, degrading conditions or trafficking in human beings, the punishment can of course be suspended, that is the logic itself. Yesterday it was, today it is, and tomorrow it will stay that way. I would also like to remind everyone that we have recently been visited by an international organisation, and that we are internationally renowned for our approach to trafficking in human beings. Our social inspection and our services are an international example of how to deal with trafficking in human beings and how to deal with them. We are internationally renowned for this and are celebrated for it. I do not think there should be an exemption for illegal residents. That is a double misconception, because illegal residents are not allowed to stay on the territory in themselves; on top of that, I find that those who are illegally staying on the territory are the only ones who cannot be sanctioned, and the rest, quite frankly, a serious anomaly. I'm the Secretary of State for Combating Social Fraud. I have to fight undeclared work. I am also fighting social dumping, and combating social dumping means, above all, tackling people who are exploited, who are living here in appalling conditions. This government has even made this a priority. If we give the signal that we are only halfway through and that we give people who are being exploited here a special classification, then I think we are sending a totally wrong signal. I refuse to give that signal. I would like to repeat that it should not necessarily be the person making the complaint. Over the last few months, I have had to run the risk of setting up the hotline for social fraud. At present, that hotline can process the complaints that come in in a structural way. We have announced that private individuals can now lodge a complaint. It can now also be done for companies. The hotline will soon also be extended to include a button for organisations, in particular for trade unions and consumer organisations, but also for human rights organisations. They will be able to complain in this way. If we provide for all these things, I think there is no reason to step up the fight against undeclared work and at the same time give the signal that we will not do so for a certain category of people, especially for people who are illegally resident in this territory and will exempt them from any sanctions. Returning to the old proposal, as Mr Van Hecke suggests, also means that all people who are not employees, such as students, unemployed and housewives, and working in the black, cannot be punished. I'm not prepared to do that. If we want to give the clear signal that undeclared work cannot be done in our society, then so should everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u66	Mr Secretary of State, I have a feeling that you are resisting matters that no one is opposed to. We are willing to listen to you. I'd like you to listen to us, too. We had a discussion in committee. The report shows that there was a unanimous agreement. Pretending that the opposition is opposed to an investigation into social fraud is therefore not the issue. That people should be punished was no problem for us. It is quite possible that we are an international example. That is the merit of many successive leaders. Our concern is to remain an example internationally. The fact that you are fighting fraud and social dumping is very good; so was the previous government. I hope that you will use the same amount of energy to fight tax fraud and that you will also take initiatives and link databases to each other. The button for human rights organisations on your click phone is also not a problem. In the case of victims of trafficking in human beings who complain, we only ask that they cannot be fined. In your reply, you say that it is clear that they will be granted an exemption. You say that here. You just said it. If that's so obvious, write it in the law. That's not an unreasonable question, is it? Victims of trafficking in human beings, like women who have to prostitute themselves here... So it's possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u67	Mrs De Coninck, first of all, I have never said that you are against combating social fraud. I don't know where you're getting that. Secondly, I did not say here that my predecessors did not fight social fraud. Anyone who knows me a little knows that I have always praised my predecessors in various fora who have fought social fraud for the efforts they have made. Mrs. Kitir knows that. That applies to Mr Crombez, it applies to Mr Devlee and it also applies to Mr Vanvelthoven. So you must not pretend that I want to be the only one in the history of Belgium to fight social fraud. Mrs De Conick, you should reread your amendment. You are talking about victims of trafficking in human beings. I do not see that in your amendment. You make it very clear in your amendment that anyone who does undeclared work should be able to be punished, except for those who are illegally resident in this country. Mrs De Coninck, I am telling you that I do not want to send a signal to the people that everyone can be punished except for the people who are staying here illegally. I refuse to give that signal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u68	Mr Tommelein, you forgot a bit. These are illegally staying third-country nationals who have lodged a complaint. It's just about that group. If I know the spirit of the law on trafficking in human beings a little bit, it has been discussed for a very long time and clearly that we had to protect the weakest from sanctioning because otherwise we would have the opposite effect, namely that they would no longer dare to complain. They don't get anywhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a deaf talk. In all reasonable terms, I think we all want the same thing, but it should not be on paper and I regret that. Mr Secretary of State, we have discussed this quietly. I asked questions in committee about Rule 31, but you were not present. Now you've come to explain yourself. You were there to present the article and to communicate with the press, but you were not present at the time when the texts were being discussed. It would be a good thing for you to be present in the future, so that the debate can be held in committee. For the record, none of us are advocating undeclared work, nor am I defending undeclared work. You must not put such words in my mouth or anyone else's mouth. What I have said is that this measure can be counterproductive. You say you want to fight against undeclared work and against those organizations. I think that's important, too. The question is what is the most efficient way to fight that battle. By going a little too far, one gets a counterproductive effect. That's what I was gonna say. Mr Tommelein, you say that one is not obliged to prosecute, but that one can. What does the law say? "With a penalty of level 1, anyone who..." without exception. The parquet may decide not to prosecute, but this is not about the parquet. It's about level one, so it's administrative. "Is punished anyone who..." That's everyone. Will your services be pleased if they may be able to fine a few dozen illegal immigrants, fines that those involved will not pay? As a result, you will have less well upholstered files to tackle the illegal circuits. That's the consequence. We have tabled this amendment to return to the original proposal. We will also support the sp.a amendment, because that is the aim. The legislation on trafficking in human beings also provides for exceptions and a special protection status for victims of trafficking in human beings. You should base yourself on that in order to be able to fight effectively against those who abuse those people. Mr Secretary of State, if the text is adopted as it has now been formulated, you are actually giving malicious organisations a gift. You know there'll be a lot less complaints. Even if there is an extension because the organisations are allowed to do it, when it comes to presenting evidence, you need testimonies and statements from people who have worked there and who can explain what it was like. I would therefore ask for one of these two amendments to be supported. You say that our amendment does not go far enough, Mr Secretary of State. We are simply suggesting that we return to the preliminary draft, so that is your text. And if you say that our amendment is incomplete, think of the students, of the housewives, then that means that you didn't even think about it when you submitted the preliminary draft. Now you must not say that our amendment is incomplete, because I fall back on your first text. You say that text is kaduuk, but it is your text! Let us consider this issue in all reasonable terms, examine the amendments and approve them. The only effect will be that the fight against illegal circuits and ill-practices will be carried out more efficiently than the proposal before us today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u70	Mr Van Hecke, you are pretending that exploitation can only take place with regard to persons residing illegally on the territory. Undeclared work is widespread in our society. It is not always, as certain people wish to show, the employer who is asking for undeclared work. It is in many cases because of a number of other factors that employees themselves make the choice and demand from their employer to be paid in black. Anyone with two legs in society knows that perfectly, Mr Van Hecke. If you want to reduce the exploitation of people to just those people who are staying illegally on the territory, then you will increase the problem of undeclared work. The group of people who are legally resident here and forced to work or choose to work for themselves is much larger than the group of illegal people on our territory. In other words, you want to make exceptions, while I want to step up the fight against undeclared work, precisely because of social exploitation, because of the antisocial situation in which those involved have to work. This undeclared work must come out and we must send a very clear signal that no one, but no one in this society, has the right to undeclared work. I do not think it is a good signal to pull one particular group out of there for those who should.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words about Latin, as is customary today. Fortiter in re, suaviter in modo. Because I know Mr Van Hecke hates Latin, I will translate it. It means that one is strict in the principles, but flexible in its application. I believe that Mr Tommelein also said this earlier. I will ask the Attorney General, together with the Minister of Work and the Secretary of State for Combating Social Fraud and Privacy, to issue, for the specific category in question, persons who are victims of trafficking in human beings, a directive on prosecution which translates this Latin principle into practice. Of course, we are all opposed to undeclared work, but it must remain possible for this particular group of people to make it clear that they are the victims. Then, under circumstances, a declaration is inevitable. I would like to add this to the fortiter in re by colleague Tommelein. Of course, I approve of his position, but you know my fellow Members, once a little bitch, always a little bitch suaviter in modo!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u72	Mr President, I have the impression that the Secretary of State is a little misunderstood. Everyone here is against undeclared work and everyone thinks that we should take action against it. That's the principle and the finality. However, we must ask ourselves how, in the specific cases of smuggling and illegal employment, we can ensure that the most vulnerable workers make a complaint. Only in this way can one also realize the finality. Your colleague is talking about the punishment. I believe, however, that the main question is how these people can be encouraged to complain, so that they can be seen and effectively dealt with. In this way, the finality, on which everyone agrees here, can be realized. I'm just asking you to think from that perspective. We, as opposition, are also trying to think and act from your perspective.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u73	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? [[No]] The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u74	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1442/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1442/6) The title was changed by the Committee to "draft legislation supplementing and amending the Social Criminal Code and laying down various provisions of social criminal law." The title has been amended by the commission into "Bill supplementing and amending the Social Penal Code and laying down various provisions of social criminal law". The draft law has 100 articles. The bill has 100 articles. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u75	Annex V.Part 2.124 • 10 - Stefaan Van Hecke cs (1442/7) • 11 - Monica De Coninck (1442/7) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and on the Rule and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u76	******
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u77	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Vandenput, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u78	I am climbing the speaker's seat because once again I will try to prevent us from missing a great chance of success in the fight against fraud. Let me get this straight. The texts we are approving today have long been negotiated. The signature dates, if I am not mistaken, from March or April 2014. Not long after the new government was set up, I started asking the Finance Minister where the text was. It's about a short text. It could not be difficult to write a brief explanatory statement to that effect. But the text stayed out, which only made the suspicion grow. It seemed that the government was deliberately temporizing, because it would prefer to regularise the black money in Switzerland through the announced regularization. That regularization is still not here today. The majority is faced with difficult budgetary control in March. Well, there is money here, ladies and gentlemen. The text that we will soon be adopting as an example of constructive opposition gives the Belgian tax authorities the opportunity to ask the Swiss tax authorities to lift Swiss banking secrecy and to provide the information to the Belgian tax authorities, so that we can do something about tax fraud. We have just discussed it extensively and we agree unanimously on the need to combat social fraud. Now, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you will have the opportunity to prove that you want to do the same to combat tax fraud. What's the problem? First of all, your regularization is not yet complete. Secondly, the text, which we are about to adopt, states in its final provision that the Convention will enter into force on 1 January of the year following its adoption. In concrete terms, it means that the Convention will not be applicable until 1 January 2017. I have already called in committee for this to be speeded up and improved, but I was not followed in my question by the majority. However, I have now been briefed. Madam Secretary of State, there is a method or procedure whereby Belgium addresses the other Contracting State, which is Switzerland, and asks whether there can be agreement on a declaration of provisional application. A declaration of provisional application means that the Convention can be applied from the moment that that declaration is published in the Belgian Official Journal. No lawyer of one or the other fraudster can rely on the fact that the Convention does not enter into force until 1 January 2017. With such a declaration of provisional application, the text, after publication of the declaration in the Belgian Official Journal, is contrary to Erga omnes, to use a Latin word. Colleagues, I invite you to go to the reading room and look into Le Monde when you have time. A colleague has the text with him. In Le Monde today there is an article about a whistleblower who has provided information about the way in which a large Swiss bank, UBS, operates. The person concerned tells you that this Swiss bank is a sure thing, however, that all other Swiss banks also act in this way by country, including in France, as stated in the article, and in Belgium, is in contact with representatives of Swiss banks, large capitals and large fortunes parked in Switzerland. This information is particularly useful for our Belgian tax authorities. Madam Secretary of State, my question to you is therefore the following. Do you also regret that we have to wait until 1 January 2017, before we can make use of this agreement? Is the current government prepared to take the step towards Switzerland, to try to obtain a declaration of provisional application from Switzerland? Our group strongly insists on this. I have already pointed out that my proposal is an example of constructive opposition. You need to look for money, to make your budget tight and to be able to achieve your budget path. With our proposal you can find money that you do not need to look for at middle incomes or low incomes. It is a means of providing part of a solution to a budget problem in a more or less socially acceptable way, for which you are responsible and which you yourself have created.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u79	Mr President, I will not go back to everything that has already been said in committee, but I will highlight two new elements. First of all, we support the request and suggestion by our esteemed colleague Van der Maelen for an epistolary exchange between Belgium and Switzerland to implement the agreement on the exchange of tax data more quickly. This would allow us to work, among other things, on the case of UBS. We now know – as Le Monde says today – that Belgian taxpayers have accounts in Switzerland. It would therefore be a matter for Belgium to ask for their identity from the Swiss tax authorities in order to regularise this situation, the aim being to set in motion the justice system to punish those taxpayers who have evaded the tax in our country. Secondly, the reason why the Ecolo-Groen Group will abstain today is obviously not motivated by any opposition to the fight against tax fraud, but by the fact that this Convention promotes a system of data exchange which is not automatic. However, the OECD model, which will come into force in 2017, provides for spontaneous exchange. Therefore, it is a pity to have an imperfect tool, whereas, as of next year, the OECD will offer us the opportunity to make use of such an exchange with Switzerland. We believe that this is a step in the right direction, but it is still insufficient. That is why we abstained.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u80	Mr President, like Mr Hellings, I believe that this convention is going roughly in the right direction, but there are some points that are problematic. I'll keep two of them. First, I am also thinking of the non-automaticity of the exchange of information. Indeed, the explanatory memorandum states: "Although the amendment allows for automatic or spontaneous exchange of tax information, Switzerland has made it clear during the negotiations in May 2013 that it intends, in practice, to limit the exchange of information to exchange on request." I wonder to what extent such allegiance is not made to Swiss bankers. Secondly, it is intended to prevent what it calls "intelligence fishing". These are, in this case, requests for tax information which would be too general and not sufficiently precise. This is quite worrying in the sense that last December the Netherlands obtained from Switzerland a huge volume of tax data relating to Dutch UBS customers, which could thus be taxed. The request of the Netherlands was extremely vague. Therefore, if the text in question is applied, which refuses fishing for information, it is possible that Belgium does not submit such a request. It would be very damaging to deprive oneself of this way of obtaining capital information about major fraudsters who have "stopped" their money in Swiss banks. That is why we believe that this text is far from optimal in the fight against major tax fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u81	Do any other members wish to take the floor? [[No]] Mrs Sleurs, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr van der Maelen, as you know, the fight against tax fraud is a very important issue for this government. I have taken note of your well-worded comment on the declaration of provisional application. I am very happy to pass on your comment to my colleagues in the government. Then it can be considered whether or not to opt for that option. I myself was not present at the discussions in committee. I can see that you've done your homework and that this has produced some discoveries. I take note of that. A statement of provisional application is a nice statement, I think. I shall therefore be happy to pass that on to the fellow Members who are responsible for that bill and for those international acts, so that this can be discussed further.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u83	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u84	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1574/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1574/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u85	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u86	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u87	Mr President, as his title indicates, this draft agreement concerns the integration of aviation safety in order to respond to threats from non-military aircraft. Your servant has welcomed this project, which is part of the construction of a Europe of defence. The objective of this Agreement is to jointly and alternately carry out the air police mission over the Benelux territory, but also over Germany, France and possibly other Member States in the future. However, I enquired about the decision-making mechanism, i.e. who takes the decision to shoot down a civilian aircraft under the conditions laid down in the Treaty. The agreement also specifies that specific technical agreements may be concluded as well as with regard to the use of force by assigned aircraft. Are such technical agreements being developed? I would also like to know at what stage the negotiations with France and Germany are taking place and to argue that the resulting agreements contain the same modalities in order to avoid having different decision-making processes. Mr. De Vriendt was pleased that this bill is a positive example of defence cooperation, as is our colleague Tim Vandenput. The Minister has provided all the technical clarifications that we wanted. This concludes with my report to speak on behalf of the PS Group. Mr President, I would like to point out that defence Europe must go through such well-structured joint ventures. The project before us today is very important. It is far from being anecdotal politically, legally and diplomatically, and more fundamentally in terms of the sovereignty of our States. This project covers a subject of extreme gravity. He organises the making of a terribly delicate decision. We will support him. But it was essential that we could obtain clarification in committee on certain points or silences in the Treaty. My group has always supported, and will continue to do so, all the initiatives that make it possible to move towards a true Europe of defence, as our numerous initiatives in this field demonstrate. This includes the pooling of air space and the so-called Renegade agreements, as well as the search for synergies in military training, operations within the European framework or the search for economic, industrial and academic returns in the important markets announced by the government. I don't doubt for a moment that I've been passionate about you and I deserve your applause. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u88	Of course, Mr. Pirlot. Thanks for the report. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u89	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1575/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1575/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u90	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u91	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u92	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u93	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u94	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1595/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1595/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u95	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u96	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Roel Deseyn, Jef Van den Bergh.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u97	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Laurent Devin, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u98	Mr President, it is important in this proposal that we should have a real telecom policy. In a telecommunications country there are many rules, but what good is many rules if they cannot be implemented if the administrative penalties that may be imposed by BIPT have an insufficient deterrent effect? This proposal will increase the amount to EUR 1 million. That's 5 percent of turnover. In the case of natural persons, this amounts to EUR 5 000. That's very important. You know how telecoms players have organised themselves over the past few years, possibly via co- or subsidiary companies, to avoid larger fines precisely with smaller conversions. That will no longer be possible in the future, because an effort is being made for a million euros. What is it about in concrete terms? When a spectrum space is allocated, it will have to be used. Mandatory notifications on the invoice must be complied with. There are many rules in the telecoms law that should benefit consumers. With this bill, we are the consumer's partner. It will hopefully also open up our market, which should lead to more efficient products and more healthy competition in the sector. I would like to underline that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u99	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u100	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1002/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1002/4) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u101	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u102	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Jef Van den Bergh, Sabien Lahaye-Battheu, Daphné Dumery, Emmanuel Burton, Gilles Foret, Jean-Jacques Flahaux.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u103	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Nele Lijnen, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u104	Mr President, I would like to explain the legislative proposal before us. There are no definitive figures yet, but according to the Road Safety Barometer, 755 road deaths occurred on our Belgian roads in 2015, more than two deaths a day. This has reversed the downward trend in recent years. We must not allow that to happen. We must conclude from this that we must continue to work towards better road safety and, among other things, better traffic regulation and better traffic laws. Everything within our capabilities must be used to reduce the number of road deaths. As is well known, 90% of all road accidents are due to human error. That may be inattentive, but too often it is also about alcohol and drugs behind the wheel and excessive speed. The behaviour and mentality of a group of problem drivers are still inadequate. In this group there is also a hit-and-run and driving despite a driving ban a real problem. Just in the case of serious traffic offences, the instrument of the immediate withdrawal of the driving licence by the prosecutor or the judicial police is a particularly important one. He does that to keep the driver off the road for a while during the days after the facts. Through the police court, the 15-day period can be extended to a maximum of three months. A final penalty for the offence, possibly a driving ban, will then be discussed later when there is a ruling from the police court. However, it is surprising to note that no penalties have been imposed for driving during the extended withdrawal period up to a maximum of three months due to an oblivion in the legislation. We want to correct this with the legislative proposal before us. We provide for the same penalties for driving during the period during which the immediate withdrawal was extended as for driving during the first 15 days of the immediate draw. That's a logical decision, I believe. It is also important that in future we prohibit a driver whose driving licence was immediately withdrawn from the market from accompanying a student driver in his training. So far, that hasn't been the case. The purpose of this proposal is to punish properly those drivers who commit serious offences or cause a serious accident, and to punish them if they do not follow that punishment. Maybe it's a small step, but every small step can help to make our roads safer and to get to fewer road deaths. I would like to thank my fellow Members for their unanimous support for the proposal. I hope to be able to count on a similar vote in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u105	Mr President, we will support this text, so that Mr. Van den Bergh is not disappointed twice today. Indeed, it already has a hard heart with regard to SNCB's tariffs. His heart is bleeding! As far as this text is concerned, we will support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u106	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u107	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (616/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (616/7) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u108	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u109	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the draft law before us consists of three thick maps. It was explained and dealt with two weeks ago in the Business Committee at almost two hours. For a design of that size that is quite fast. The draft law provides for the transposition of the prudential provisions of the Solvency II Directive, or Solvency II Directive, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009 on the taking up and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance. This Directive introduces new rules to strengthen the solvency and supervision of insurance undertakings as a result of the financial crisis and the European rules on the banking sector. The current solvency regime has been criticised on a number of points. For example, insufficient account was taken, inter alia, of the actual risks to which insurance or reinsurance undertakings are exposed. It also lacked the necessary harmonisation of the rules on technical provisions, thereby distorting competition between undertakings established in different Member States. You know that during the banking crisis, too, this was one of the elements that effectively required more supervision. This is also the case in the insurance sector. This harmonisation was lacking in terms of governance and supervision of the groups of insurance undertakings, in particular in cooperation between national authorities. The aim of increased supervision of the groups of insurance undertakings is to better protect consumers by providing them with the assurance that each undertaking will fulfil its obligations, thereby maintaining confidence in the insurance sector. In addition, maximum harmonisation is also envisaged at European level, which will strengthen the competitiveness of enterprises. The transposition of this European directive will give both the supervisor and the company a better picture of the risk derivatives and will be better suited to reality. In explaining the draft law in committee, Minister Peeters has formulated a number of specific technical questions on the basis of a clear PowerPoint. So he himself formulated the questions and then gave some answers in order to better interpret the technicality of the design and the matter. Minister Peeters stated in that explanatory statement that the national transposition of the Directive already effectively included a number of adjustments, specific national adjustments from our Belgian context. There was therefore no full take-over of the Directive. We have been able to make effective adjustments. Among other things, there is a great deal of importance attached to the principle of proportionality. For small enterprises, a system of supervision and governance was developed which is more proportionate to the size of the company. For example, a risk committee will not be an obligation for each insurance undertaking in the same way. So there will be a fragmentation possible. In the general discussion of the draft law, the N-VA Group stressed that the government did not do gold-plating, which is very positive. The translation of proportionality is also a positive point, according to the N-VA Group. However, it considered that the risk of greater concentration of market players would be increased. That is why vigilance is needed in the insurance landscape, as far as the companies themselves are concerned. Finally, the N-VA noted that a distinction is made between guarantees provided by the federal government and guarantees provided by the regional government. According to the N-VA, that's an aberration. On behalf of the CD&V Group, I myself expressed my satisfaction at the fact that the smaller companies are being taken into account and that specific rules have been laid down for this purpose. Therefore, all supervisory and governance obligations are not simply transposed for all companies. There may be differences between companies. We also stressed that the Minister had taken account of a reduction in the burden. For this purpose, the size of the company was taken into account. The MR Group expressed its support for the draft, a translation of the lessons learned from the 2008 financial crisis. From the opposition, the PS Group also took the floor to express its support for the bill. In fact, the draft improves consumer protection, according to the PS. Following the general discussion of the draft law, two further amendments were tabled by the majority. After the full examination, both the draft law and the two majority amendments were adopted unanimously. The President : Does anyone else want to speak? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u111	The draft law was split by the committee pursuant to Rule 72 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. The bill was split by the commission pursuant to rule 72.2, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. We shall begin the discussion of the articles of the Bill No. 1584/7 (matters referred to in Article 74 of the Constitution). The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1584/7) We turn to the articles of Bill No. 1584/7 (matter referred to in article 74 of the Constitution). The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1584/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u112	No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u113	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We shall begin the discussion of the articles of the Bill No. 1584/8 (matters referred to in Article 78 of the Constitution). The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1584/8) We turn to the articles of Bill No. 1584/8 (matter referred to in article 78 of the Constitution). The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1584/8) The title was changed by the Committee to "draft law on the statute and supervision of insurance or reinsurance undertakings with regard to certain accelerated review procedures before the Council of State." The title has been amended by the committee in "Bill on the Statute and Control of Insurance or Reinsurance Undertakings with regard to certain expedited procedures of appeal to the Council of State". The draft law contains 5 articles. The bill has five articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u114	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u115	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Sonja Becq, Gautier Calomne, Gilles Foret, Philippe Goffin, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, Raf Terwingen, Carina Van Cauter, Egbert Lachaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u116	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Uyttersprot presented an oral report on this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u117	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be brief. This bill was discussed last Tuesday in the Justice Commission. Mrs Becq is the main proposer of this bill and she has therefore explained to the committee the purpose of allowing the legal internship to be extended three times by six months in future. At the moment, this can only be done twice. Today, due to a lack of open places, there are nine judicial trainees at the prosecutor's office whose internship was renewed twice. That extension shall expire on 21 March 2016. In order to avoid the expiry of that second extension without being able to be appointed, it is appropriate to allow a third extension. Otherwise, they risk losing their chances of being appointed. During the discussion Mr Brotcorne asked whether there were enough vacant places for the trainees to be appointed. Minister None replied in the affirmative. The whole of the legislative proposal was then adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u118	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u119	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1632/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1632/1) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u120	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u121	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 17 February 2016, I also propose that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mrs Dirk Janssens and Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne and Mrs Ine Somers) amending the Law of 22 December 2009 on a general regime for non-smoking closed places accessible to the public and for the protection of workers from tobacco smoke, in order to introduce a smoking ban in closed passenger vehicles in the presence of children under 16 years of age, No. 1633/1;
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u122	- the legislative proposal (Mrs Karine Lalieux, Mr Alain Mathot and Mrs Özlem Özen and Mrs Fabienne Winckel) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 and the Value Added Tax Code in order to promote cultural patronage, No. 1650/1,
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u123	- the legislative proposal (Mr Georges Gilkinet and Mr Kristof Calvo, Mrs Meyrem Almaci, Mr Jean-Marc Nollet and Mr Wouter De Vriendt, Mrs Muriel Gerkens and Mr Stefaan Van Hecke and Mr Gilles Vanden Burre) to improve tax transparency by requiring large companies to report on each country, No. 1654/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u124	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 17 February 2016, I also propose that you take into account: - the bill (MM. Dirk Janssens and Vincent Van Quickenborne and Mrs Ine Somers) amending the Act of 22 December 2009 introducing a general regulation on the prohibition of smoking in closed places accessible to the public and on the protection of workers against tobacco smoke, with a view to introducing a ban on smoking in covered cars in the presence of children under 16 years of age, No 1633/1;
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u125	- the proposal for a law (Ms. Karine Lalieux, Alain Mathot and Mrs Özlem Özen and Fabienne Winckel) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 and the Value Added Tax Code to encourage cultural patronage, No. 1650/1;
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u126	- the bill (MM. Georges Gilkinet and Kristof Calvo, Mrs Meyrem Almaci, MM. Jean-Marc Nollet and Wouter De Vriendt, Ms Muriel Gerkens and Messrs. Stefaan Van Hecke and Gilles Vanden Burre) to improve tax transparency by creating a country-by-country reporting obligation for large companies, No. 1654/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u127	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u128	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law on the collection and storage of data in the electronic communications sector, No. 1567/1. The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law on the collection and retention of data in the electronic communications sector was tabled, No. 1567/1. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request. I hope there is a motivation on the part of the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u129	Mr President, Minister None has asked to withdraw the request for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u130	The request for urgency shall be withdrawn. The Government also requested urgent treatment under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law amending the name of the National Pensions Service in Federal Pensions Service, integrating the powers and staff of the Public Pensions Service, the "Pensions" assignments of the local and provincial sectors of the Special Social Security Systems Service and of HR Rail and taking over the common social service of the Special Social Security Systems Service, No. 1651/1. The Government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill amending the name of the National Pension Office in the Federal Pension Service, incorporating the functions and staff of the Public Sector Pension Service, the "Pensions" missions of the local and provincial sectors of the Office for Special Social Security Plans and HR Rail and taking over the collective social service of the Office for Special Social Security Plans, No. 1651/1. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request. I give the floor to the Minister of Pensions for a motivation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u131	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since no one has asked me to withdraw the urgency, I will defend it. This refers to the proposed merger of the National Pension Board (ONP) and the Public Sector Pension Service (SdPSP), i.e. the employee pension sector and the public sector pension sector. The project is carried out by the two administrations, which have planned an extremely precise agenda. The merger is scheduled to take place on April 1, 2016. I wish to assure myself that the merger may take place on that date and that the law may be published in the Belgian Moniteur before 31 March. This is a process that requires the gradual integration of both services on very specific dates. I therefore hope that we can work urgently on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u132	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we speak in the usual way and stand up for this urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u133	These inquiries were developed in a public meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Communications and Public Enterprises on February 2, 2016. These interviews were held at the public meeting of the Commission for Infrastructure, Transport and Public Enterprises of 2 February 2016. Four motions were tabled (MOT No. 109/1): - a first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Olivier Maingain; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Messrs. Marcel Cheron and Stefaan Van Hecke - a third motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Inez De Coninck and by Messrs. Emmanuel Burton et Jef Van den Bergh. Four motions were tabled (MOT No. 109/1): - a first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Olivier Maingain; - a second motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Marcel Cheron and Mr Stefaan Van Hecke; - a third motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Inez De Coninck and Mr Emmanuel Burton and Mr Jef Van den Bergh. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u134	Mr President, I have been told that there have been some problems with Minister Galant's interpretation of the RER issue around Brussels. Ms. Galant first had the opportunity to say that she had not been properly understood. We tried to understand his own interpretation of his first intervention. In order to be completely clear, I have tried to put in writing the need, for these two lines, 161 and 124, for a four-track decision to complete the RSP in the correct sense of the word "complete". I have even asked my colleague Stefaan Van Hecke to co-sign this text, which I think is clear. It says that the regional express network (RER) around Brussels is a real priority for mobility in our country. I invite not only the opposition groups who have already had the intelligence to support this project, but also the majority groups to join us on this point. That is something positive and concrete. I know that Mr. Miller is already acquired from us; I see him in his smile. I know the entire Walloon Brabant MR supports me. I hope that all the other groups will support us in this clear position.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u135	Mr President, in line with what Mr Cheron has just said, I understand, ladies and gentlemen of the MR, that a debate took place yesterday in another House. Clearly, the Walloon MR was in favour and had clearly stated the need to fully implement the RER, implementing the four tracks on the lines in the direction of Ottignies and Nivelles. No doubt you will claim that there is no need to vote on the motion, since in any case the minister, after saying everything and its opposite, has committed herself at the level of Parliament. But, ladies and gentlemen of the MR, the minister simply said that she "welcomes", which is a little light. It therefore seems important to me, beyond all the groups that will support these motions for recommendations, that the MR should also be careful to support the real implementation of the four paths for this RER, by doing so and showing it today. Failure to support motions of recommendation and simply wanting to support the simple motion would be an admission of weakness on the part of the MR. It is therefore an opportunity for the MR to act in line with his words on the right and on the left. I therefore expect, Mr President, that the MR will be consistent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u136	Mr President, Mrs Galant has not been misunderstood. She didn't have any changing versions. In fact, she had said well that for the government, the RSP would no longer have the same priority and would no longer be the same project as what has always been defended so far. When she spoke, she spoke well on behalf of the whole government and not only on her own behalf. Moreover, to see some reactions within the MR, what he was accused of was not having adequately concealed the true intention of abandoning the RER. I'm not making any more desperate calls to the MR. We saw him again in the Thalys Walloon file. They had announced that they would support a motion in the Walloon Parliament to demand the return of the Thalys on the Walloon dorsal. We finally saw what it was like. MR parliamentarians abstained, a sign of obvious weakness while in the Walloon Parliament they are in opposition. In this case, it would have been easy for them to support the majority. So, still counting on the MR, it's wasting your time. On the other hand, relying on the mobilisation of citizens, especially rail users – what we have done, like others – I believe that this is the best way to force policies to finally meet fundamental commitments.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u137	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to what was said last week. Like my colleagues, I think I've been very attentive. The Minister recalled that it was in April 2003 that the Federal State and the Regions agreed to an agreement to implement the ER program from and to Brussels. The ambition of the time was that the RER offer would be fully operational by 2012. At the end of 2014, when the minister took office, she found that more than 2 billion euros had been spent and that no suburban offers were marketed or communicated. It also found that the RER fund would be exhausted around 2019-2020, prior to the completion of all the work defined. Mr. Chair, I would like to conclude my remarks by recalling that the federal government's report has made the suburban offer a priority. It's written black and white. This was also recalled by the Prime Minister in plenary. The government agreement therefore provides for the completion of the work within the deadlines set. Contrary to the previous minister, on the basis of this finding, the minister decided to launch a real offer while ensuring the completion of the work, within a reasonable time and despite the RER fund inherited from the previous government. The Minister undertook to table a complete, technical and financial file on the government table shortly, setting out a realistic timetable for all work on lines 161 and 124 and the related funding requirements.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u138	Mr President, two billion euros have been invested by previous governments for RER work. I am thinking in particular of the Josaphat tunnel. This shows that they have all fed the RER fund and that it is the current government that has no longer supplied it to its proper level. As for the two to three billion savings imposed on SNCB, it is obvious that such a fund is no longer being financed. Second, requalifying an offer does not mean that there is a better one. Talking about "suburban" instead of "RER" means using an element of language and performing a communication operation. This is not an offer for commuters. Francophones know enough. What did the minister do? She abandoned them all, whether they were Walloons or Brussels. The latter are, moreover, left to chaotic mobility – and you also know that. This is totally unacceptable. I'm waiting for the plan, but I don't believe it anymore. I will therefore call on the Prime Minister next week. Indeed, admit that we tend to no longer believe Mrs Galant, who says everything and his opposite at a distance of two days!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u139	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 81 Yes No. 57 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Mr. Foret, did you vote in favour?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u140	I was wrong, Mr President, I voted instead of my colleague who is not here. For the sake of integrity, I wanted to report it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u141	I'll take note of it, Mr. Foret.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u142	The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u143	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service on 3 February 2016. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration on 3 February 2016. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 107/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Daphné Dumery. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 107/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Daphné Dumery. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? [[No]] Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u144	Yes 81 Yes No. 56 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u145	Vote on Amendment No 10 by Stefaan Van Hecke cs on article 32. (1442/7) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Stefaan Van Hecke cs to Article 32. (1442/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes [[35]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 19 Abstensions Total 137 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 11 by Monica De Coninck on article 32. (1442/7) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Monica De Coninck to Rule 32. (1442/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 44 Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 32 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 32 was adopted. Mrs Schepmans voted against.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u146	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 124 Yes No. 0 Non Abstentions 13 Abstentions Totaal 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1442/8) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1442/8) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u147	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 123 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1574/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1574/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u148	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1575/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1575/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u149	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 125 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1595/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1595/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u150	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1002/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (1002/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u151	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 137 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (616/8) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (616/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u152	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1584/9) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1584/9) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u153	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be sent to the Senate. (1661/1) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be forwarded to the Senate. (1661/1)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u154	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1632/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (1632/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2016-02-18-54-plenair-ip098x.u155	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 25 February 2016. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 25 February 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday 25 February 2016 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 25 February 2016 at 2.15 p.m.
