ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u1	Minister, I have a question concerning the control of refusals on the right to social integration. In the context of the new management plan of the PPS Social Integration, the Inspection Service carried out checks on the legality of OCMW's refusals to the right to social integration. It was noted that 65% of the verified applications did not contain any file for refusal. That's striking, isn't it? Further analysis shows, according to the POD Ml itself, that many OCMWs simply do not communicate their refusal decisions. However, Article 21 (6) of the Law of 26 May 2002 requires this. According to that Article, any decision to grant, refuse or review must be communicated to the State. We now notice that this is not happening properly. That is why I would like to put the following question to you, Minister. What do you think caused this? In what way will you ensure that this is done correctly in the future? It is this type of data that makes it possible for us to properly adapt our policies to reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u2	Mrs Van Peel, there are two reasons why 65% of the applications checked were refused. First, a number of OCMWFs assume that they should only transfer their decision to the administration in the event of an application, a review or a cessation of an allowance. Consequently, they do not disclose their information if no living wage is paid because of a refusal because no reimbursement is requested. Secondly, it was found that one of the software companies that is responsible for the development and support of the ICT applications of a number of OCMW debt securities has not provided an adequate flow of electricity in its IT programme. Since that information link does not exist, the OCMW shall not be able to transfer their refusals to the relevant administration using that ICT application. My administration has already taken a number of measures to resolve this situation. First, the OCMWFs were already informed of the obligation to transmit the refusals in good time via the electronic newsletter of the administration. I'm also considering an additional communication to remind them of that. The problem was also discussed at the monthly consultations between the administration and the software company. A follow-up will be provided so that there will be no more blocking at this level. Finally, the inspection service will pay particular attention to these dossiers. After six months, this department will draw up a summary internal report on the findings. Additional measures may then be taken on the basis of this report, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u3	Thank you, Minister, you are faster than your shadow, or at least my question. I am glad to hear that work has been done on this right away. If one wants to get a full picture of the problem, it is important to see why it is refused, when it is refused and whether there are major differences in this respect between the OCMWFs. We have had this discussion before. Tailor-made work is good, but I hope that within the OCMWs there is some kind of uniformity in this area. It should not depend on where someone was born whether or not he is eligible to start a file. In short, it seems to me to be a good thing that you are working to obtain data. I look forward to the report, because I believe that this will lead to interesting things. This is being continued in committee, I hope.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u4	In the meantime, I have additional news on agenda items 1 and 2. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Gustin's 9176 was converted into a written question. That also applies to Question No 1, by Mr De Gucht, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the We have to wait for item 4 because Mrs Lahaye-Battheu is still on her way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u5	Minister, when a person goes to a country just to get access to health care and does not follow the proper procedure, medical tourism is used. In the context of medical assistance for foreigners, there is a concern that this may burden our health systems. That is why the legislation in this area is important. In reply to my written question, you indicated that the PPS Social Integration does not have statistical data on this issue. The identification of medical tourism appears to be very difficult. That does not mean, however, that it does not happen. In practice, there are plenty of examples. For example, a man arrives in Belgium from Ghana with an ordinary tourist visa. On arrival in Belgium he does not feel well and goes to a hospital. There it is found that the man has AIDS and must be treated immediately. These are things that have already led to discussions in Antwerp. An elderly woman, for example, comes to visit her son's family. She travelled from Morocco to Belgium via Spain and has no visa. The day after arrival she has abdominal pain and goes immediately to the hospital, where the doctors determine colon cancer. The wife claims she doesn't have health insurance. The application shall initially be refused, but nevertheless instituted for the sake of urgency. Further social research shows that she has applied for and obtained travel insurance, but that insurance does not cover the diseases that already exist. However, the woman refuses to return to the homeland. The social research then finds that the person in question is staying in Belgium for purely medical reasons and without following the standard procedure. The inspection service will then proceed with recovery from the OMCW. Mr Minister, if it is shown that the standard procedure has not been followed and that medical tourism is involved and the costs are therefore being recovered from the competent OMCW, what action can an OMCW take itself in that case? If the OMCW refuses these costs, the health care institutions will be left with the burden, but in the other case that is the OCMW. That is a difficult triangle because there is no clear procedure or because there are no clear figures. Could you shed your light on that, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u6	Mrs Van Peel, the fact that the person concerned must follow the standard procedures for obtaining permission from the Foreign Affairs Office to stay on Belgian territory remains the indisputable fundamental rule. I would therefore like to emphasise explicitly that it is not part of the OMCW's mission to support persons coming to Belgium in the context of medical tourism. In doing so, social research is essential because it provides the OMCW with the necessary information about the situation of the person. On the basis of this social research, which examines inter alia the status of the person concerned, the OMCW can decide which services can be provided. As I said in a previous answer on this matter, the identification of medical tourism is very difficult. From your question, it seems that the OCMW should merely demonstrate that the standard procedure has not been followed to speak of medical tourism. A regular stay on the territory is indeed the measure. However, that needs to be refined. Only the finding by the OMCW that the person concerned has not followed the procedures provided for is insufficient to conclude that there is medical tourism. In addition, the OMCW needs to investigate through social research whether the intention of the person concerned to come to Belgium is purely medical. If the social research shows that there is indeed medical tourism, the costs cannot be charged to the Belgian State. If the social investigation shows that the person concerned came to Belgium for purely medical reasons and did not follow the standard procedure and the OMCW decides to provide assistance, it will therefore have to pay these costs by its own resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u7	Mistress the Minister, thank you for your answer. These are still difficult dossiers, because sometimes they are acute situations in which a care institution has to intervene immediately. That account stays somewhere. That's the nasty part. If the OCMW suspects medical tourism, but medical cases have already taken place, then the hospital will remain on account. We have a difficult field of tension there, especially because it is very difficult to map. I will think about how we can streamline this better and I am sure we will come back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u8	Mr President, Minister, you have already been questioned on several occasions on the delicate subject of professional secrecy and the transfer of information by social workers of CPAS. I take back in substance the different answers you had given to these questions. In February 2015, you said that "these enlargements must be carefully studied and fixed, so that they do not run counter-productive or run into fundamental principles". In June 2015, you referred to the analyses requested from the Justice FPS and stated that at this stage you did not yet have the results of these analyses. In October 2015, you stated that "such cases deserve a reasonable time to weigh and analyse the implications of the measures concerned, their legal validity, their effectiveness in relation to the objective pursued, the preservation of social work and its context". In December 2015, as part of the discussion on your policy note, you stated that "without wanting to affect the relationship of trust that exists and must exist between the beneficiary and the social worker, (you wanted to) discuss with the Minister of Justice how to strike a balance between the legitimate need to maintain professional secrecy and the arrangements to be made for certain categories of particularly serious offences". You also stated that "the debate on the reform of professional secrecy has been opened with the CPAS. At this stage, no commitment has yet been made. (Your) objective, in consultation with the Minister of Justice, is to review the relevant legislation in order to avoid complaints about social actors. (... ) The apparent slowness of this dossier is voluntary: only optimal consultation will achieve a result agreed to by all". Finally, in January 2016, you replied that "co-operation on this subject is in full swing" and that you could "provide more information to the Commission at the end of February". Minister, it's July 2016. After "reasonable time" and "voluntary slowness", it is time to act. I have forgotten to point out that the issue I am particularly interested in is that of sharing essential information within the framework of the local task forces in the fight against terrorism and radicalism. Everyone knows very well the difficulty of functioning these task forces. In fact, some mayors have reported this problem for a long time. Minister, do you finally have the analyses requested from the FPS Justice? If so, what are the conclusions? What are the results of your work? In concrete terms, how do you intend to act on this issue? How long? All these questions deserve an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed a complex matter which I have wished to give the necessary attention to in terms of legal analysis and consultation. Several months ago, I asked the CPAS federations to state their position on this issue. After reminder and insistence, this position was transmitted to me in the form of a note that I received on May 9, 2016. According to the federations, initiatives can be taken to facilitate the communication of the data available within the Social Security Bank-Carrefour, with the transmission of the data to the judicial authorities, under the supervision of the Privacy Commission. Such initiatives are currently under way between the Justice FPS and the Social Integration PPS. On the other hand, the CPAS federations have indicated to me that they are opposed to a change in the legal framework in this area because they consider it unnecessary. I do not share that view. After analysis, I believe that CPAS, as is the case with other social security institutions, cannot be exempt from any cooperation with the judiciary. I therefore believe that there is a need for a legislative initiative in this area. That is how I made my proposals to my colleague, the Minister responsible for Justice, on 20 May. My proposals are as follows. 1. To confer on the King's prosecutor the power to request information, in an expanded manner, when he finds offences. 2. I also consider it appropriate to open the possibility that the staff of the various social institutions may be untied from professional secrecy in the event of a particularly serious infringement. 3. I would add a provision which provides for an obligation to transmit information in the most serious cases. 4. I am opposed to such an initiative being aimed only at CPAS, and I hope that this mechanism can be extended to other institutions and, in particular, to all social security institutions, as covered by the Act of 11 April 1995 on the Charter of the Social Insured. These various avenues, as well as the opinions of the CPAS federations, have been communicated in full transparency to the Minister of Justice, who remains competent to be at the initiative of the legal or regulatory provisions in this case and, for the most part, with regard to professional secrecy. In addition, these leads are quite broadly in line with the proposal made by the College of Attorneys General on 2 June. As far as I am concerned, all the elements are now gathered so that we can move forward on this matter (opinions of the CPAS federations, legal analysis and opinions of the College of Attorneys General).
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u10	Minister, thank you for this answer, which I believe is appropriate. I myself have tabled a bill that would add a section 458ter to the Criminal Code and that goes in the same direction. It is extremely important that all those facing individuals who pose a terrorist threat to society can effectively share their information. It would be curious if the OCAM, for example, shared its threats but not the social security bodies. It is obviously necessary to check how this sharing of professional secrecy can be resolved. This must be done under specific conditions, that you yourself have specified and that I agree perfectly. I now simply hope that either my proposed law, which is here on the table of the Terrorism Committee, will be taken up, or that the Minister of Justice will act very quickly because there is an urgent need. It is known that the level of threat remains very high and that it is important that the mechanisms put in place are truly efficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u11	Madam President, Minister, at the end of June, you signed an agreement to work to reduce the use of antibiotics in livestock farming. The objective set by the Knowledge Centre for the use and resistance of antibiotics in animals (AMCRA) is a 50% reduction in the use of antimicrobial substances in general and even a 75% reduction in the most critical antibiotics, i.e. crucial for human medicine, by 2020. An evaluation will be conducted annually. In case of non-achievement of the objectives, you are committed to correcting and regulating further. In addition, a royal decree, modernizing the decree of 23 May 2000, appears to be in the final stages. It will include, inter alia, mandatory registration of the use of antibiotics and supervision of the use of critical antibiotics. In addition to the well-known public health problems associated with the use of antibiotics in livestock farms, it would appear that treating livestock with antibiotics stimulates methane production in nozzles, thus contributing more to climate change. Researchers found that bouses of antibiotic-treated cows released almost twice as much methane as those of untreated cows. Minister, what additional measures are envisaged to further reduce the use of antibiotics and to achieve the objectives set? What are the modalities of the evaluation to be carried out each year in relation to this Convention? By whom will it be realized? What about the regulations for drug manufacturers and the importation of certain veterinary drugs? What about the royal decree in the finalisation phase? Can you provide us with more information on the changes that will be made and on possible deadlines? In particular, you mentioned that you wanted to amend the legislation on the supervision of antibiotics in veterinary medicine; what about it? Are studies conducted to assess the effects of the use of these antibiotics on climate change?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u12	Minister, my question is limited to the effects of greenhouse gases on the climate. Recent research in the United States shows that the use of antibiotics in livestock farming also increases greenhouse gas emissions. Given the environmental impact, this is an additional reason to be vigilant for the use of antibiotics in agriculture. As my colleague has said, this also increases methane production. Mr Minister, we may need further investigation. That one investigation is not enough to draw conclusions, but it seems already a sign on the wall. Do you take sufficient account of the results of that investigation? Is methane gas emissions consistently measured? Not all antibiotics were tested in the study. Which antibiotics are mainly used in Belgium? Are those the same ones that were tested for the problem in the United States?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u13	I think we should maintain a global picture of the situation. By fragmenting the data and isolating certain studies, we run the risk of misinterpreting the situation. The production of methane by ruminants is a fact. (...) The livestock sector as a whole, like agriculture, must of course evolve and contribute to the fight against climate warming. We must also remember that ruminants are generally linked to the management of permanent grassland, which is almost as large a carbon sink as forests. In the context of your questions and my skills, it is antibiotic resistance that is the major issue. To combat it, I recently released updated statistics with AMCRA and my colleague Mrs De Block. I have taken two initiatives, of which I think they are important. The first is the drafting of a comprehensive convention between all stakeholders: on the one hand, the veterinary, agricultural, food and pharmaceutical sectors and, on the other hand, the authorities. This convention, signed on 30 June by all these partners and by my excellent colleague Mrs De Block and myself, aims to formally bring together all stakeholders around a common goal of reducing the use of antibiotics, that of the AMCRA 2020 vision, with a commitment to implement, within the framework of their respective competences, a range of means to achieve this. I would point out that AMCRA's 2020 vision includes a 50% reduction in the use of antibiotics in livestock farms between 2011 and 2020, and a 75% reduction in critical antibiotics, which are the most problematic. This agreement will be the subject of an annual report and will be followed by a management committee which will meet twice a year. My second initiative is the adaptation of the legislation on veterinary medicinal products, which will ensure that antibiotics are used in veterinary medicine which is much more supervised or even severely limited for critical antibiotics. It's a first in Belgium. The development of critical antibiotics is the major concern in the last report. The use of critical antibiotics can thus be measured and monitored much more rigorously and accurately. In addition, the use of critical antibiotics in prevention will be prohibited. The use of critical antibiotics in curative therapy will have to meet a number of prerequisites in terms of examinations and analyses. This new royal decree, which I would like to make available to you, is in the process of being signed with Minister De Block and will be published in the next few days. I think I can say that with all these measures, we have taken important steps to combat the excessive use of antibiotics, particularly critical antibiotics. Our goals are very ambitious and commensurate with the danger to public health. I give this matter all the priority and all the energy it requires.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u14	Minister, I welcome this concern to consider the emergence of antibiotic resistance as a major element. The results are encouraging, with a decrease of almost 16% in the use of this type of product in a few years. Last year alone, a 4.7% reduction was recorded. I have to say that you're making good progress on this file, and that's reassuring.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u15	Minister, I am pleased that this is a very important priority for you. It is a good thing that we all pay attention to this, even though the research on the link with greenhouse gases I mentioned earlier is an isolated study. You say that you want to put that in a global perspective, and I agree with that, but I would like you to include that research in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u16	Mr Minister, the OCMW Act of 8 July 1976 instructs the OCMW to provide urgent medical assistance to needy illegal immigrants who do not have sufficient financial resources to pay for their health care. The competent OMCW must take a decision on a possible charge and subsequently notify the State of that aid with a view to recovery. Only medical benefits, medicines and treatments included in the RIZIV nomenclature are eligible for reimbursement. The Royal Decree of 12 December 1996 provides a very rudimentary interpretation of the concept of urgent medical care, which can be provided both in an outpatient and in a nursing establishment. It may be of a preventive and curative nature. The urgency must be demonstrated by a medical certificate. The need of the applicant should be examined. What is to be understood by this urgent medical care is therefore interpreted by each doctor separately. During the past legislatures, I asked several questions about the problem and tabled a motion for a resolution asking the government to take some measures to control the rising costs. Since 2003 there has been a doubling to more than 40 million euros in 2008. The figures you gave here in the January 2016 committee show that between 2010 and 2015 the costs also amounted to between EUR 36 and EUR 48 million per year. The resolution also calls for the clarification of the interpretation of the concept to be removed. A clear regime is in the interest of all parties, both illegals and doctors, healthcare institutions and OCMWFs who have to be reimbursed for what they have paid to the applicant. In the coalition agreement, I quote: 'The principle of urgent medical assistance to persons without legal residence is maintained'. The notion of urgency is clarified in consultation with medical experts, without leading to a list of conditions which may or may not be considered to be borne by the Federal State." Mr President, first of all, following on from your reply in January, what progress has been made on clarifying the concept of "urgent character"? Secondly, what is your response to the other measures proposed in the resolution mentioned? I am talking about raising awareness of OCMW's until the introduction of the medical card for illegal immigrants to encourage them to consult the general practitioner before they go to hospital. I also asked in the text to oblige the Belgian embassies to communicate to the Foreign Affairs Office the data relating to compulsory health insurance, which must be concluded for the purpose of obtaining a visa. In addition, I urged that the data relating to the guarantors be made directly accessible to the OCMWFs. My last suggestion was to entrust the recovery of the costs of urgent medical assistance to third parties to the Social Integration PPS and to make real recovery.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u17	Minister, I agree with Mr Lahaye-Battheu's question. I have another question. You did indeed state your position at the January committee meeting. In the meantime, you received the advice of the Order of Doctors, which refers to the law of 12 January 2007 on the reception of asylum seekers. According to the Order, one could base oneself on the interpretation of the urgency already given in that law. You mentioned that thought trail in a reaction in the press worth investigating. However, I believe that there should remain a difference between the aid that can be given to people who are illegally resident in the country and those who are legally present here, mainly in order to avoid a suction effect. On the basis of the KCE report and the advice of the Order of Doctors, there is a danger that the concept of urgent medical care will be undermined in such a way that there will no longer be any difference and the financial costs, as described by my colleague, will increase even more. Minister, what is the state of play in the dossier? Where are the consultations with the actors involved? What's the further timing? What do you think of the proposed line of thinking to take the law of 12 January 2007 as an example? Today, it often takes a lot of time for an OCMW to find out if someone has bailed out the person asking for medical attention. Are you thinking of providing better instruments in this area to the OMCS so that this procedure can be speeded up?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u18	The aim of the MediPrima project is, on the one hand, to simplify and speed up the processing of medical care invoices for persons covered by the OMCW and, on the other hand, to improve its control. It is a major project, which will respond to many of the recommendations contained in the report of the Federal Health Knowledge Centre (KCE), in particular the simplification and harmonisation of administrative procedures, a more efficient organisation and a better follow-up of healthcare practice and, of course, the costs. In order to ensure a better follow-up of the healthcare practice and the associated costs, my administration has again had consultations with the HZIV, the Auxiliary Cash for Sickness and Invalidity Insurance, since 27 January 2016, with the aim of supporting the control developed by the HZIV. In order to achieve this, the RIZIV was also contacted. The discussion on the definition of urgent medical assistance has not yet been completed. As far as the comparison with the Reception Act of 12 January 2007 is concerned, I can already give you important elements of analysis, in particular the fact that asylum seekers and beneficiaries of emergency medical care do not have the same access to and follow-up to the care, and that the government agreement determines not to reach a restrictive list of concerns, as is the case with asylum seekers. Finally, I hope to gather information from good and poor care practices identified in the checks carried out by the Auxiliary Cash for Sickness and Invalidity Insurance (HZIV) in order to arrive at a better definition of urgent medical care. I started with the extension of MediPrima to the general practitioners. This will enable them to determine immediately the burden on the beneficiary and to benefit from the same reimbursement arrangements as the hospitals. This will be an additional encouragement for the beneficiary to go first to the general practitioner rather than to the emergency department of a hospital. The obligation of the Belgian embassies to record data on health insurance is not within my competence. I therefore refer you to Minister Reynders. As regards the OCMW's checks on the insurability of the beneficiaries, I can tell you that the OCMW should in principle not interfere with the medical costs in the event of a valid visa, as travel insurance must be provided for the duration of the stay. If the visa expires and the person concerned is still on Belgian territory, the OMCW must always check the applicant's insurability. I refer you to the specific letter of 14 March 2014 concerning the minimum conditions for social research. Currently, the data on the guarantors are not included in a common database. The possibility for OCMWFs to gain electronic access to that information has already been discussed with DVZ and with Home Affairs. I would like to refer to my other colleague, Mr Jambon. The registration of health insurers abroad and the recovery of costs can be discussed in the light of the development of cooperation with the Belgian embassies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I remember that the work is still ongoing. Administrative procedures need to be simplified and the organisation needs to be more efficient, so I have noted. I have also repeated my specific questions from my resolution. You say you are trying to discourage those involved from going to the specialist immediately, so that they would consult the general practitioner first. You add that, if there is a valid visa, there is also health insurance. The problem is that the OCMWFs do not have the data of that insurance. You say that we must turn to your colleague and party colleague, Mr Reynders. The theme has many facets. You are the minister responsible for the OCMW's. I would, of course, like to turn to your fellow Members, Mr Reynders and Mr Jambon. The main purpose of my question was to make a number of concrete proposals to improve urgent medical assistance, which takes a big bite out of the federal budget every year, in the interests of all concerned. For the rest, I will read your answers carefully. I believe that important steps can be taken forward. It is a fact that there will have to be cooperation with other departments. I will certainly turn to you when there is more clarity and concrete decisions have been taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I have the same feeling as my colleague. This is certainly positive. Through the extension of MediPrima to the general practitioners, you can indeed encourage those concerned to visit the general practitioner first, which was also stated in the colleague's resolution. I have also heard you say that you do not want to provide the same access for asylum seekers and illegal immigrants. That too is a positive thing, but that is a little concrete answer. After all, it remains unclear how we will describe the concept. I mentioned you faster than your shadow, but in this file, your shadow might be a little ahead. So I ask you to go back to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u21	Minister, I find the figures so remarkable that I would like to come back to them again in committee, although we have already discussed them in the discussion of the GPMI. On 7 June, De Tijd announced that there are 12.8 % of unemployed families in Belgium today. Apart from the general figure, there are huge differences between the three regions. In Flanders, 6.6 % of minors live in a family where no one works. In Wallonia it is 18.5% and in Brussels it is 25.7%. This is shown by figures based on the labour force sample survey of the General Directorate of Statistics. It is obvious that there are several causes and that several elements will also be needed to provide a solution. However, as far as I am concerned, there is no doubt that proper monitoring of jobseekers into the labour market must be absolutely paramount. In addition to the employment services, the services with which the regions support job seekers in finding work, the OMCWs also play an essential role in this, especially in helping their clients to integrate into the labour market globally. It is therefore a good thing that this majority, in addition to being fully committed to job creation among others, should also take measures to give the OCMW more leverage to support clients. The extension of the IPMI, which will be discussed in plenary tomorrow, is a very important step in this respect. However, we cannot ignore the fact that regional disparities are so great that I wonder if we should zoom in a little bit more on the part of the government agreement on the responsiveness of OCMWFs, because there seems to be a very big difference in approach. Minister, how do you intend to further encourage OMCWs to provide the best possible guidance to clients towards the labour market and to make them highly responsive? In what way do you want to get all OCMWs involved, without touching on their autonomy, which allows you to work tailored to the client's needs? How will you make that happen? When discussing the policy plan, I have already mentioned this: today, an OCMW is almost financially penalised as it is too much dedicated to job guidance, because it costs money, both to staff and to contract costs. So at the moment there's actually a reverse response: the better an OCMW works to help people get a job, the more the OCMW pays, and vice versa. In many cases, an OCMW is better off by simply continuing to give a living wage. We need to zoom in on that and work on it, especially when I see these figures. More generally, are you thinking of new initiatives specifically aimed at breaking down generation poverty, because these figures make it very painfully clear that the children coming from such families have a very great chance of getting into OCMW?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u22	Mrs Van Peel, the OCMWFs do indeed have an important role to play in the supervision of the beneficiaries of living benefits on the path to work. As you know, the professional activation of beneficiaries of housing benefits under the sixth state reform is now a competence of the Regions. The GPMI, though one of the most fundamental reforms for the OMCWs in this legislature, is the ideal instrument for better integration of the beneficiaries of living benefits. These are tailor-made trajectories based on individual needs. In the context of a GPMI, progress can be made on the workpoints for people who are far from the labour market, such as language learning, attitude training, mobility, etc. In this way, it will be possible to respond very closely to the barriers that hinder people's real integration into the labour market and to increase self-reliance. An important objective of the GPMI's obligation for all new files, including those protected in the alternative, is precisely that response of the OCMWFs you are talking about. At the same time, I fully respect the autonomy of the OCMWFs. For example, the reform of the GPMI obliges the design of a pathway, identifying working points on the basis of which objectives are set and defining the steps to be taken to achieve these objectives. The completion of these routes shall be determined by agreement between the beneficial owner and the OCMW. In order to support the OMCWFs in order to carry out this task in good conditions, I provide for specific funding and support measures, including in the area of IT and training. Furthermore, as I mentioned earlier in this committee, I wish to develop a monitoring tool. After all, I want to draw up a series of statistics and indicators which allow, on the one hand, to take account of a set of important parameters for social integration and, on the other hand, to measure the impact of new policies. Through this barometer, I want to collect data per OCMW on the number of living wage recipients, the average duration of living wage and so on, and these data cross, for example, the GDP per capita of the municipality and socio-economic data. This should allow for the examination of how and under what conditions OCMW debt instruments conduct their policies. In view of your last question about generation poverty, it is well known that children born into poverty from the very beginning miss the opportunity to fully develop and exploit all their talents. Preventing poverty from generation to generation requires an investment in children from early childhood, including the prenatal phase. The government agreement proposes that specific attention be paid to combating child poverty, including in the case of single parents. For example, I plan to combine three grant decisions aimed at social participation and social activation, including initiatives relating to child poverty, in order to increase its impact. In this way, resources can be more targeted to support OMCWs to offer children of families in poverty and social exclusion opportunities to escape the negative circle of poverty. The reflection process with my colleagues on this reform has now begun.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u23	Mr President, I welcome the fact that you are going to make the funding of such projects more structural and thus increase the resources available. The OMCWs can indeed work projectally on child poverty. I notice that in my OCMW. The closer one is to the families, the better one knows what a municipality is doing about it. I am certainly in favour of this. What I also think is very good in your answer is that you will refine the monitoring system, which already exists in part. I don't know what your timing for the intersection of numbers is, but it's certainly interesting to look at that, because it'll only then allow you to really respond. As soon as we have the data, we will also have to dare, if you know what I mean. It may be nice to map that out, but I think that certainly this legislature should be linked to it a further step. I have already said it in my question. Unfortunately, today, there is unwittingly unwittingly, that has never been the intention of the legislator. There are OMCWs that are very hard on labour market guidance, on Article 60, and that are financially punished by the federal level, in the sense that an OCMW provides much more for the contracts it pays for an article 60 than it has to pay for a living wage, which withdraws it from the federal level. As soon as we have a better picture of this, we need to look at it in its entirety so that we can properly respond to an OCMW rather than punish it, often unintentionally, for the fact that people are very hard on it. I've heard some good things, but it's gonna be a follow-up story for a while.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u24	Debates of the European Parliament 12447 by Mrs Nathalie Muylle will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u25	Madam President, Minister, bluetongue was declared in our French neighbours last September. I had the opportunity to ask you about this a few months ago. A market was under way for the purchase of vaccines to protect cattle and goats. You indicated that Boerenbond had requested a cost-benefit study of vaccination to determine whether it should be mandatory or optional. This study was to be carried out by AFSCA and the Centre for Veterinary and Agrochemical Studies and Research (CERVA). In addition, AFSCA reported a few months ago that bluetongue could affect our country this summer. That is why I would like to ask you again about this. Minister, what is the result of this cost-benefit study? Will bluetongue vaccination be mandatory? From when? How many doses of vaccine are available? Is it enough? What controls are in place in parallel with this vaccine? Although I'm a little familiar with the file, I wanted to take stock with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u26	Madam President, Minister, I am also coming back to you about bluetongue, since its emergence in France. Indeed, you had recommended a vaccination campaign against this virus in early April. However, due to higher demand than the most pessimistic forecasts, the stock of two million doses for cattle and 100,000 doses for sheep was immediately exhausted. All applications for vaccination could therefore not be met. This stock was to be restocked on 20 June. Ideally, vaccines should be given before winter. However, the animals will already be in grassland, while the disease spreads above 15°C and is transmitted via the mosquito. Farmers could still suffer heavy losses if their animals were hit by then. Minister, what is the percentage of vaccination requests that could not be met at the first order? What about the last doses that were due to arrive on June 20th? What is the country's current coverage rate with this new resupply? Could all farmers have been supplied with vaccines? If not, what are the health and socio-economic risks for farmers who have not received these vaccines?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Blanchart, you are giving me the opportunity to take stock of this matter. I do not hide from you that I am happy to do so, since I believe – but it is not up to you or your political party – that I have been overly questioned in Parliament on this issue when I think I have made significant efforts at the latter level, as you will be able to judge. Thus, as soon as we saw the onset of this disease in France during the summer of 2015, I immediately requested my services to assess the situation, particularly with regard to the progression of the disease which is only spreading thanks – if I can say so – to the support of an active flyfly. However, this fly is only active from a temperature above 15 °C. Following this opinion, I consulted the health authorities, the agricultural sectors, the veterinarians and the laboratories. It was concluded that vaccination was the best protection for animals and that there was an urgent need to make vaccines available. I have also asked questions about the cost-benefit aspect of the operation since it is known that given the age of certain animals, depending on the sectors, depending on the advanced state of pregnancy or not, etc., the cost-benefit ratio of vaccination is not necessarily favourable to the latter. I asked the sectors what their opinion was on compulsory vaccination and voluntary vaccination by veterinarians or farmers themselves. After that and after receiving the experts' advice, I found that the expected cost in the event of an epidemic was still in favour of vaccination and that it was appropriate to carry out vaccination on a voluntary basis. However, in order for the monitoring to be carried out in particular in terms of administrative traceability, it was appropriate for the vaccination to be carried out by approved veterinarians. So we are not in the same logic as we were in 2008. We ordered everything we could. I can tell you that in Europe this vaccine was not available anywhere. Fortunately, we found a Spanish company that bid in a public procurement contract, for which we obviously followed the legal procedure. We obtained two million bovine doses and one hundred thousand ovine doses. By the end of March, we started to vaccinate. In just over a week, the full amount of available doses was ordered by the veterinarians and the bulk was delivered between 1 and 8 April. A few more days have been needed to make the validations of the orders by the AFSCA and to organize all the logistics with the veterinary drug wholesalers. You have found that the applications were, at that time, very important, so that we have exceeded the forecasts of vaccine applications which, usually, for voluntary vaccinations for other diseases are around 20 to 30% of the animals that are actually vaccinated. In view of this, I brought the sectors and the administration together as a matter of urgency on 11 April. It was decided to make full use of the command options. Fortunately, in the public market, we planned to be able, as an option, to make additional orders. We also tried to shorten delivery times by contacting the pharmaceutical company. Of course, we have communicated all these elements to the veterinarians. We asked those who had not used all the bottles ordered to make them available to their colleagues. Finally, at the Council of European Ministers, I allowed myself to ask my Spanish colleague whether they had not ordered vaccines from the same company as us. Fortunately, the answer was positive! A second sympathetic element was that, as part of their programming, they could release their orders for the benefit of Belgium, so that we were able to obtain the doses. The possibility of production for Spain was oriented towards Belgium, which allowed us to obtain the vaccines earlier. I am very happy and grateful to my colleague, whom I thanked very warmly. We have a delivery deadline of 1.4 million doses on Friday, July 15. Today, we are in control of the situation. Anyone who wants to have a vaccine has the option. I am taking advantage of this committee and the thousands of people who will read this committee's report to call for further vaccination, despite the difficult economic situation in the agricultural world. We are just over 900,000 vaccinated cattle in Belgium. However, 2.4 million cattle are eligible for vaccination in our country. I encourage the vaccination of animals that have not yet been vaccinated. Until now, the fly has had the great courtesy of not reaching Belgium yet. But I am sorry to be carrying sad news: he could join Belgium during the summer, unless temperatures drop sharply. In summary, vaccination is progressing very well, doses will be available from 15 July and I encourage vaccination. There is no human contamination, but economic damage, damage to farms with a great genetic heritage, is extremely important. For farmers, the birth of a number of calves affected by the disease, deformed and non-productive, is extremely hard and difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u28	Minister, thank you for the comprehensiveness of your answer. It is realized that this issue was difficult to manage since a timing had to be respected, in a problematic economic context for the agricultural sector. This case was handled by master hand. Of course, criticism is easy. However, finding solutions to get the vaccines while few firms produce them, being able to ensure a resupply as you have done, is something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u29	Mr Minister, the case was indeed done in a round manner, especially when you were able to approach your charming Spanish colleague by talking to him about a mosquito. It's a great performance! I wouldn't have dared. But the result is there. You got the products. This will reassure the many farmers who are going to read us. It should be remembered that in 2007 the virus still contaminated 7,000 Belgian farms. It's not nothing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u30	Mr Minister, at the end of March, a case of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE), commonly known as mad cow, was detected in a farm in Givron, in the French Ardennes, some 40 kilometres from the Belgian border. The case seemed isolated, but the herd of this herd was completely slaughtered as a precautionary measure. On this occasion, I asked you about the risks to our farmers, especially those whose operations are located on the French border. You assured me there wasn't any. However, you lacked some information because the French investigation had not yet produced its findings. In addition, you told me about European legislation that should enter into force quickly. Minister, has the French investigation today produced its findings? Can you tell us the details of these conclusions? Has the European Commission changed the legislation as you told me? How? Has it come into force? Thank you for your clarification on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u31	Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, in fact, Belgium has no longer known cases of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) since 2006 and has obtained from the OIE the status of countries at negligible risk for BSE - which is very important - i.e. the most favourable status existing, since 22 May 2012, which is just over four years. However, BSE surveillance is still well present in Belgium, as in 2015 no less than 1,031 cattle were tested in slaughterhouses and 23,658 in rendering facilities. All of them, fortunately, turned out to be negative. The cause of the recent BSE case in France could not be established. France has conducted an epidemiological investigation into the potential cause, as foreseen by the European Regulation on Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathies (TSEs). For example, all descendants of the animal concerned and animals of the same age were screened. That's what we call cohort animals. To date, no evidence of the origin of the infection has been identified in this survey. Given the long incubation period of BSE, on average five years, it is very difficult to establish a direct link between the potential sources of the infection and the case. In addition, a few other cases of BSE in relatively young animals have been observed in recent years in the European Union without any explanation of origin. This is why the European Commission has given EFSA a mandate to conduct research on these isolated BSE cases, including the latest case in France. Belgium has of course supported this initiative in the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed. The results of this scientific study will not be available until April of next year. After finding the last case of BSE in France, France's BSE risk status was lowered from negligible to controlled risk. For beef cattle from France, the vertebral column, the tonsils, the last part of the small intestine, the caecum and the mesentery must be removed and destroyed as specified risk material MRS. This is in addition to the mulle and skulls of cattle over 12 months of age, which are still systematically removed and destroyed as SRMs. Commission Implementing Decision 2016/701 was published on 11 May and entered into force on 31 May 2016. It is therefore a matter of topicality. This European measure is taken as an additional precautionary measure to protect public health. I congratulate the translation for all these scientific terms, which are numerous in my response.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We have been able to take stock of this important issue since, in the past, we have experienced significant problems but it seems to be properly managed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u33	Questions Nos 12653 and 12654 by Mrs Van Camp are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u34	Minister, it is difficult for individuals to fight the fruit moth. There is no available means for the private individual that is biological and common. However, there are biocidal products to fight the fruit moth, but they are not available for private use in Belgium. The products are based on granulose virus, one of the most effective substances without adverse health effects. It is bizarre that individuals in France and Germany can get it. This is very confusing for the consumer and, moreover, he cannot fight the fruit moth in a good way. Pesticides that are harmful to health such as satsumas can easily be obtained, while they are actually heard under lock and key. I believe that biocidal products which have no adverse effects on health and which are effective should be available to consumers. Mr Minister, questions have already been asked about this in the past, but it seems that there is not much progress yet. In the meantime, have there been any reports at the Antitoxin Center? Why does Belgium not distinguish between broad-spectrum micro-organisms and micro-organisms with a very specific effect? How do you explain the difference between Belgium, France and Germany? These three countries are located in the same climate zone and yet other rules are applied to individuals in Belgium. Moreover, in line with the European regulations, the same rules should apply in a harmonised internal market. Is the Belgian ban on private use not contrary to European regulations? If so, can you correct that? Finally, I am curious about Belgium's attitude to this issue at European level. In Europe, we are seeing a positive evolution, switching to biocidal products as pesticides.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u35	Madam President, I accept this question from Minister Marghem because it concerns plant protection products and not biocidal products. The biocidal products are pesticides that must be used on anything but plants, such as insect sprays. It is a very interesting question, which points to the conflict between the growing interest in plant protection products of non-synthetic origin, biopesticides, and the permanent strengthening of strict measures on the use of these substances, particularly for individuals. The previous question that was asked about the product dates back to 2013. When it was replied that the product Carpovirusine did not meet the Belgian requirements for private use, because a mask has to be worn during use and because the product has to be stored cold, which is not realistic for non-professionals. In the meantime, there has been an evolution in the sense that the competent recognition committee for pesticides for agricultural use has very recently decided that the product concerned can be authorised for Carpovirusine. An exceptional deviation was granted for wearing a mask and storing it in a refrigerator. The Committee considers that the labelling of warnings is sufficient to inform the private user. This does not therefore mean that the product is already on the market. No authorisation has yet been granted because no application for authorisation for private use has been received. My administration will soon contact the distributors of the means to explain the new development. All plant protection products must comply with the same rigorous legislation and standards, regardless of whether they are selective against a limited number of harmful organisms or operate widely against a wide range of harmful organisms. The efficacy spectrum has nothing to do with the potential toxicity. On the other hand, natural, non-synthetic products are not necessary without risk. The differences in terms of authorised products in the Member States are incorporated into the European Regulatory System, as Member States are allowed to take account of national circumstances. However, this does not seem to be relevant to the plea in question. For private applications, the European Directive on the Sustainable Use of Pesticides provides for additional measures to be taken by Member States. This explains the different approaches in the European Member States in this respect. In Belgium a number of restrictions have been introduced for non-professionals, while in other countries they are not or are subject to other restrictions. The low risk criteria shall be applied at European level in the assessment of the active substances. Our country strictly respects European regulations. For example, those criteria were applied when renewing the approval of the active substances of this product. However, this classification will not affect national restrictions on plant protection products for private use, which will therefore have to continue to comply with carpovirusine. On the other hand, the national authorisation procedure for low-risk products is accelerated in order to stimulate that type of product.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u36	Thank you. It's a good thing you want to speed up the procedure. We'll probably hear more about that soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u37	Madam Chair, Minister, the Glyphosate registration is coming to an end on June 30, 2016 and the issue of its renewal is at the centre of intense controversy. In March 2015, the WHO International Cancer Research Centre classified glyphosate as "probable carcinogen" for humans. At the end of 2015, the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) did, on the contrary, find it "unrobable" to be carcinogenic. There was therefore a disagreement between WHO experts and EFSA experts. It should be added that many citizens' associations are challenging EFSA's procedures. In particular, there is a lack of transparency on the identity of the experts involved and the basic studies used to develop the EFSA's position. More recently, a second WHO study, conducted in partnership with FAO, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, classified Monsanto's pesticide as "probably not" carcinogenic. The situation is therefore rather confused and many consider that, in the face of these uncertainties, the precautionary principle must prevail by prohibiting glyphosate. Despite this strong controversy, the European Commission announced on Wednesday 29 June the extension of the EU authorisation of glyphosate for up to 18 months. In a press release, the European Executive states that it "decided to extend the authorisation of glyphosate for a limited period, until the European Chemicals Agency publishes its opinion by the end of 2017 at the latest". Minister, how will this 18-month period be used to clarify scientific analyses of the toxicity of glyphosate? It is well known that on Monday there has been progress at European Union level since certain restrictions on use have been decided. What steps will be taken to strengthen and ensure the independence and transparency of scientific analyses on the toxicity of glyphosate?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u38	Madam Member, thank you. This is a case to which I have paid the greatest attention, in particular by meeting with the Federal Public Health Administration and the Belgian Higher Institute of Public Health; by documenting me about a number of contributions and reading much before taking the Belgian position at different stages of the procedure. But I would remind you that this position is taken by common accord with my colleague Maggie De Block, who is also a doctor. With regard to the current situation, without recalling the various stages of the European decision you are aware of, the 18-month period recently adopted by the Commission will be used by the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) to analyse the labelling and classification of glyphosate, including its classification as regards carcinogenicity. This is part of the proper procedure. ECHA drafts opinions pursuant to European Regulation 1272/2008 on the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures. Normally, the renewal of approval should not wait for this confirmation of labelling, but in this case such an extension was the solution proposed by the European Commission in view of the decision-making impasse prevailing at European decision-making level. With regard to the independence and transparency of scientific analysis, I do not share the accusations that EFSA would not work independently or transparently. I would point out, for example, that the European Court of Auditors has published in a report on the management of conflicts of interest of the European Union agencies that among the selected agencies, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) and the EFSA have developed the most developed policies and procedures for the declaration of assessment and management of conflicts of interest. As far as scientific studies are concerned, it is true that EFSA relies in part only on studies carried out by industry. This is only a small part of the entire spectrum of the studies analysed since the EFSA approach is to consider that all relevant and published studies are also analysed. On the other hand, these industry studies are linked to standards of good practice, which are also controlled by a number of European structures or independent bodies. I also note that the Court of Justice of the European Union is currently considering the extent to which studies submitted in the context of applications for authorisation of plant protection products should be considered confidential or not. This is Case C442/14, which I will of course apply. In conclusion, both at the Belgian federal level and at the European Union level, I consider that the procedures, consultations and verifications allowing us to have a sufficient level of confidence in the independence and transparency of the assessments made have been carried out. I must note, even if that is not the meaning of your question, the very surprising situation in which our country is likely to find itself. As you know, marketing authorization is a federal responsibility, but authorisation for use is a regional responsibility. I believe that in our country, the Regions will have different attitudes on this issue. I have carefully read some of the provisions which I consider to be largely inapplicable. As far as I am concerned, I would generally prefer to adopt from time to time, even if it is a matter of debate or if it is sometimes the subject of controversy, a position in favour of reducing pesticides that incorporates all the parameters rather than making a particular dossier – this is not your case – an element of intra-Belgian political struggle because I find this rather inappropriate. On the other hand, I have read a number of opposition reactions which I believe to be totally legitimate. I have seen a number of positions expressed sometimes in a virulent manner, which I can understand when it comes to political debate and especially when it comes to a matter of this nature. However, I have also seen statements, public communications, expressions used, especially on websites, on social networks that seem to me – but this is not your case, nor any member of parliament – pure and simple defamation within the meaning of the Criminal Code. Furthermore, I would like to point out that the precautionary principle is a principle that Mrs Maggie De Block and I, like our administrations, follow and apply as closely as possible. And if, tomorrow, new information were to question the information we have today, we would immediately take an attitude, as we did by banning, for example, 17 of the 65 products we had been asked about in 2015. That is the state of play on this important issue. Before I finish my speech, I would like to make a small correction. Indeed, since the beginning of the 2000s – you are very legitimately referring to Monsanto as its main and historical operator – the production of the molecule and the use of its combinations have fallen into the public domain. Finally, Belgium had identified the element of uncertainty in terms of health associated with glyphosate with other co-formulants, including tallowamine. And it is with satisfaction that we have found that our position of prudence in this matter has been followed at European level. Nevertheless, a pesticide remains a pesticide and its use, the information about it must be given the greatest attention and caution not only by professionals but also by individuals.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u39	Minister, thank you for that answer. It is true that there is a situation in which the Regions, in any case Brussels and Walloon, have positioned themselves in relation to the way in which this product is used. It is still worrying to see that studies are contradictory. The precautionary principle must prevail; we must bear it in mind. We have already talked about this, particularly in the Committee on Health. A representative of your firm was often present. We know that you are committed to this reflection. It is important to be able to speak univotly and to have this precautionary principle in mind. I fully agree with you that it is important to think together and to take concrete steps to have a general reflection on reducing the use of pesticides. Such reflection may take place among individuals, at the level of the public authorities. Many municipalities are already in this dynamic. That's something to encourage. We must also think, together with the federated entities, about other means for our farmers. It's important. We have to think about this transition phase and take it with ourselves, very sincerely, and not throw the ball between the federated entities, the federal, the European Commission. I think the citizens want something else. This is clearly a public health and production problem in the future. I think this is really something important and that we should not play small political games in relation to these issues. I'm not saying that's what you're doing, but I was talking generally, as you were talking generally.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u40	Minister, it's actually a follow-up question. The first phase of the electronic social report has recently been implemented. It allows OCMWFs to exchange relevant data in a very simple way via the Crossroads Bank of Social Security. It helps, among other things, when the aid applicant moves, to easily pass on relevant cases about the client to the new competent OCMW. In the circular of 23 December 2015, you make it clear that this exchange of information is not limited to this first phase. In consultation with the OCMW's, you want to check which other elements are useful and add value to the project. These may include, for example, medical assistance decisions, budget management, social employment or the provision of individualised projects for social integration (GPMLs) and the corresponding evaluations. Minister, where is the debate on the extension of the electronic social report? Have any cases started yet? What elements do you think of yourself? We have already discussed the extension of the GPMI to the 25-plussers. In the debate in committee it was stated that there is a risk that some OCMWFs might consider it a purely administrative matter. That is not the intention, of course. The integration of the GPMI into the electronic social report can provide impetus and allow proper monitoring of its format. How do you view the integration of the GPMI into the electronic report? The last question goes back to another question I asked. Of course, it has to do with accountability and also with better data exchange. The electronic social report can also facilitate remote control for the POD. To what extent do you think the electronic social report can serve this purpose and how do you intend to simplify it further?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u41	Mrs van Peel, the second phase of the electronic social report, to extend it further, has already been launched. The first preparatory meetings were already held, including the inclusion of the GPMI in the electronic social report. I think it is particularly important that some data on the IPMI should be included in the electronic social report. This will allow social workers to start and/or continue with knowledge of the facts. As I said, the draft law on the extension of the GPMI is currently in line with the parliamentary procedure and will be discussed in plenary tomorrow. The electronic social report is not currently under scrutiny. This is a particularly delicate point for OCMW's associations and the OCMW's themselves. The exchange carried out through the electronic social report is covered by the shared professional secrecy of social workers. My administration does not have access to the data that the OMCS exchange among themselves. That's not the point. I believe that an on-the-spot check is the best way not only to control OCMWFs, but also to assist them in carrying out their statutory tasks. In addition, each OMCW is autonomous in determining the needs and needs of the support demander and in examining the means at their disposal to best meet those needs and needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The last thing you say is, of course, extremely important. I will, of course, follow the issue of shared professional secrecy. The VVSG states that it should be handled with care. Indeed, it is not intended that the POD should have access to the whole of that information. You certainly have a point. What we must be careful about is that we are not going in the other direction and are going in too strict a manner. This means that you have to do a lot of double work in a lot of cases. If you speak of a monitoring system that you are going to set up and the electronic social report, it would be almost a missed opportunity to check whether these issues cannot be linked rather than do double work. I do not think that makes the OCMWFs any worse either. The administrative burden is already enormous there today. So we need to find the most efficient way to narrow it down. That you want to keep some of the information private between the social assistants, I certainly am not against that. I know this is a very sensitive discussion. We just have to make sure that the balance doesn't go too far in the other direction. But you have a whole administration to think very carefully about that. I'm curious and thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u43	Mrs Hufkens and Mrs Gantois are not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u44	Minister, at the request of the European Commission, an audit of the BFSA was carried out in November 2014. The results of the European auditors show, on the one hand, that the BFSA is a consistent and well-documented control system. On the other hand, the audit report states that a number of BFSA inspectors do not always carry out their checks as accurately as possible. For example, Belgian auditors would not have noticed or considered infringements to be insignificant in previous audit actions. Furthermore, infringements of hygiene rules were identified in production environments of poultry abattoirs and operators processing poultry meat. It is important that thanks to the accuracy and competence of the Belgian BFSA auditors, the good name and reputation of the BFSA is maintained. The food agency must therefore closely monitor our agricultural and food sectors in order to ensure the safety and quality of our food. I have the following questions for you. How do you respond to the various problems and concerns raised by the audit, in particular with regard to poultry meat? Will a study be carried out on how this European audit was carried out? What factors do you consider to be the reason why the Belgian auditors considered these problems to be insignificant or overlooked? Is there going to be an investigation into this? Have the results and the necessary instructions already been sent to the companies in which the infringements were detected in accordance with European legislation? At what time do they still have to set themselves up as a rule? Do you take measures to undergo a thorough re-examination of all holdings where poultry are slaughtered and/or processed? What is your view on this? What is the deadline for this to happen? What are the penalties or fines that follow an infringement? What steps will you take to ensure that these problems will not arise in the future? Will the control procedures and the training of the BFSA auditors be adapted on the basis of this audit?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u45	My question goes in the same direction, of course. Some hygiene problems have been identified. There were mainly problems in the poultry sector: packages that were wet and damaged by ice formation, rust on the equipment, meat storage crates that were not sufficiently cleaned and so on. So it was absolutely not about frivolous things. The BFSA responded reassuringly and said that there had been no danger to the consumer, but it admitted that the control system could be improved here and there. Hence my supplementary questions, Minister. Is it true that there has been no real problem for the consumer? Does the BFSA really have a consistent and well-documented system? Even if it is a good system, what improvements do you think can be made to that system? How much would it cost to make these improvements? If you see this, by when is this possible? Finally, will you ask the BFSA to address the identified problems in its action plan? Will you make suggestions for improvements to the system?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u46	The audit carried out by the European Commission services in November 2014 is one of the numerous annual audits carried out in the Member States and in third countries to assess the efficiency of the official control of the food chain. Overall, this audit was carried out satisfactorily. It was concluded with positive conclusions, since the Commission has decided that Belgium has a coherent and well-documented control system and that this has generally been well implemented. Unfortunately, in recent comments, a number of individual findings were taken out of context. This led to conclusions which contradict the overall conclusion of the auditors and even what are misleading. As with any audit audit carried out in the case of a few rare exceptions after the event, it is normal for certain findings to be made which lead to recommendations addressed to the competent authority. However, this does not call into question the availability or competence of the funds allocated to the Agency. On the contrary, the audit report concludes that the checks are carried out by competent and well-trained staff. This is in line with the audit decision which led to the certification of the BFSA inspection services according to the ISO 17020 standard. As with other audits carried out by the European Commission, the recommendations lead to a proposal for an action plan to be finalised in consultation with the Commission. The action plan proposed to the European Commission contains a series of proposals aimed at both operators and inspectors of the food agency. These proposals, on the one hand, in the form of targeted communications, aim to remind operators of their infrastructure and hygiene obligations. On the other hand, these proposals aim to optimise the preparation of inspectors so that they can carry out their tasks with optimum results. To this end, specific training has been organised and certain tools and control instructions have been supplemented or clarified in order to clarify the requirements in force. For a number of findings, all the corrective actions were carried out to the satisfaction of the Commission. The Agency attaches great importance to quality and has chosen to develop a quality policy that has been certified or accredited according to different ISO standards. Continuous improvement is a basic principle and recommendations of audits should and should be considered by the BFSA as opportunities for improvement. In line with this philosophy, the management of the BFSA closely follows the action plans drawn up by the operational services. The Management Committee shall discuss progress on an annual basis and shall ensure the timely conclusion of recommendations which concern it.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u47	Minister, you are clearly saying that certain things have been taken out of context. You also say that corrective actions have already been taken to ensure that the quality is maintained and monitored at the BFSA. You are also right to say that the BFSA as a whole was not poorly evaluated, but was considered to be a consistent and well-documented control system. However, the perception, in particular in poultry and poultry holdings, remains that in some holdings unacceptable cases are still taking place which, however, were not identified as significant. How are we going to deal with the companies which have established, according to current standards, that infringements would have occurred? Information on this would also give certainty to the consumer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u48	I agree with you, Minister. No one disputes that the Agency generally operates well and that there were more positive than negative points in the audit. It remains a fact that small concrete scandals that come in the media cause the BFSA to fall into a bad light. I have not received a clear answer from you today to those specific points of concern that have indeed been raised, except that you say that there are action plans and that they are being followed up.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u49	Madam President, Minister, this is a summer question; I am adjusting my questions according to the season. Chickens and outpatient catering are very hip. On festival grounds we find numerous stalls. Ambulant restaurants in markets are very heavily controlled and try to comply with all current standards. The same applies to the operators of food stalls, who see a new source of income in it. In Flanders, Jeroen Meus is one of the best known operators at the big festivals. However, everyone must comply with standards and legislation on food and drink, and this must be done in accordance with proper hygiene requirements. Minister, what have been the figures since 2011 on inspections carried out at events? Does this happen in collaboration with local police areas and services of the FPS Economy? What violations were there? Do you have a division by arrondissement and province and, if possible, also for specific large festivals such as Rock Werchter, Pukkelpop, the Lokerse Festivals, the Gentse Festivals and Sugar Rock on the Flemish side? Are you willing to carry out intensive inspections at festivals and events in the coming months at the outpatient hospitality stores regarding strict compliance with the BFSA regulations? If so, which events and festivals will be monitored? How do these controls work? Is random checks carried out or are all stalls inspected? Who is working with the local police zones or the services of the FPS Economy?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u50	Mr President, Mrs Van Hoof, the control plan provides for 1 500 inspections of outpatient operators every year. This figure includes both retail and catering. The inspections are carried out at different events, such as markets, festivals and others. They are selected locally by the provincial control unit based on history, complaints and turn roles. Inspections carried out are recorded in our database at the location of the audited. These are not linked to the event where they were performed. So I can't provide you with any data for these specific festivals. However, I can provide you with an overview of the inspection results for operators with the activity of outpatient catering, including the food stalls and trucks. These results are broken down by province where the operator has his place of business and include inspections carried out at the various festivals, along with other events such as Christmas markets, markets, bakeries and so on. I will make this information available to you. Except for the announced control actions in the cities, the inspections are unannounced. In the case of inspections of events, the aim is to inspect all stalls, but it is also possible to check them on a sample basis. This depends on the size of the event. Depending on the event, the audit is carried out in consultation with local authorities and other authorities, such as customs, the FPS Economy, the Social Inspectorate, the FPS Finance and so on, depending on the control performed and the context in which the audit was programmed. I have some figures for you concerning the outpatient operators and the inspections.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for the figures. It's good that controls are being carried out. You have taken a very good initiative with Foodweb to better inform consumers about things that go wrong in the area of hygiene and regulation in catering. It would be good to extend this to events in the future if many offences were detected there. Of course, consumers should not be frightened, but it is important that organisers take this into account and that they are involved in the quality control of food trucks and food stalls. I have also been ships of commerce and catering in the city of Leuven and I know that the municipality was involved in acting sensitizingly in relation to, among other things, market stalls. It would be good to involve the municipalities in which these parties are organised in order to raise awareness among the organisers about the quality of what is offered.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u52	Mr Minister, I have already asked for clarification on the use of sucralose in bakery preparations manufactured from a commercial point of view through two parliamentary questions previously tabled. Both European and national food legislation is very complex and often unclear. As a result, this is a brake on the entrepreneurship of those working on food. After all, they are not sure what they may or may not be allowed to do, and they do not like the risk of getting fines because they use substances that are not absolutely certain they should be used. There is uncertainty about this, among other things, in the baker's federation. In your answer to a previous question, you said that the European Framework Regulation will apply on 20 July 2016. It will replace the Royal Decree of 18 February 1991 on special foods. In addition, you state in that reply that a procedure has been developed for the authorisation of new applications for sucralose, which is open to any interested party. You indicate that the framework regulation will apply and that it will replace the Royal Decree. How should that be understood? Does it enter into force immediately? Will the KB be lifted and or revoked? Can you clarify this and provide more legal certainty? If you say that the procedure is intended to allow any interested party to come up with new applications of sucralose, which is rather cumbersome, who do you mean by "any interested party"? Is it an individual entrepreneur or a collective of entrepreneurs? How do you ensure that the procedure is financially and administratively feasible and accessible to small entrepreneurs? They do not, for example, have the ability to hire a nutritionist. If a decision is taken to allow new applications for sucralose, should an agency or an institution check them and decide on them? What institution will be empowered to do so? It may be about the BFSA. If not, what do you plan to do?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u53	The Royal Decree of 18 January 1991 on special nutritional matters dealt with the transposition into national law of European Directive No. 2009/39. That Directive shall be repealed from 20 July and replaced by Regulation No. 609/2013. Since it is now a regulation, it is directly applicable in the Member States, without transposition. The royal decision on special nutrition is not lifted, but is currently in revision. It will be adapted not only to the framework regulation, but also to the implementing provisions, which are still awaited. At the moment, the greatest change is the reduction in the number of categories of particular foods and the deletion of the concept of dieting, alimentation diététique, as it applies the same rules as for ordinary foods and the use of specific additives in that obsolete category disappears. A transitional period of three years is foreseen for this purpose, which is now coming to an end. Furthermore, there is little change in practice in the short term, as the implementing provisions are not yet ready. Legislation relating to additives shall be regulated at European level. There are no national powers, except, of course, the right to vote on European authorisations. A list of permitted additives and their use was drawn up. The list is easy to consult in the European database of additives. A European procedure makes it possible to authorise the use of new additives or to adapt the scope of existing additives, provided that, of course, there is no danger to the health of the consumer, there is an advantage for the consumer and the use of the additive does not mislead the consumer. This can be done both at the initiative of the European Commission and at the request of a Member State or an interested party, i.e. both sector federations and individual companies or any other interested party. Such an application should be accompanied by a dossier explaining the proposed use of the substance and the information necessary to allow the risk assessment by EFSA, the European Food Safety Authority. No fee or fee is required when submitting an application. In the case of the extension of the use of an additive already authorised, the file requirements are limited and feasible for small businesses. Where an authorisation is granted, it shall apply to each operator. My administration, the Public Health Office, is always willing to provide an additional explanation to a company or federation, if one wishes to submit an application for admission.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-07-13-54-commissie-ic477x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for the technical answer to a technical question inspired by the baker's federation, which has given me some legal uncertainty. It is perhaps a good thing that you, as Minister, inform those concerned through your administration about the procedure, about the royal decision that is to be revised, and about the timing that is being used in this regard. That's a useful thing.
