ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Maigain's 9097 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Geerts withdrew Mr 9607.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u2	Madam President, Minister, on Thursday, February 18, a train without a driver or passenger travelled between the stations of Landen and Tirlemont, a distance of 12 km. According to information provided by the press and the SNCB spokesman, while the driver had taken off at Landen station to check his train due to suspicions of defect, the latter started without any reason. The train driver therefore warned his colleagues that they would take the necessary steps to stop this phantom train and thus avoid a catastrophic accident. It was only at the station of Tirlemont that another driver was able to take possession of the train that was driving at low speed. Minister, this surreal situation cannot happen! This incident could have had serious consequences. Deficiencies are most certainly at the origin of this event. How come we get to a train that runs without a driver when there is a double safety system? It is known that an emergency braking is automatically performed if the driver does not press each minute on a pedal, called an "emergency pedal", as soon as a signal is heard. It is surprising that this safety mechanism did not work when there was no one on the train. What is the safety equipment at this train line? I was told it was a TBL1+. Is this correct or is it an ETCS? Was the train properly equipped? If so, why could this train not be automatically braked? These are key issues. The challenge is also to know what SNCB has done to learn all the lessons from this event and to give guarantees that this will not happen again. This incident could have had catastrophic consequences!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u3	Madam Secretary, I agree with Mrs Fonck's questions. I particularly want more information. It's a very strange incident. I think that we must do everything we can to prevent such matters from happening in the future. Madam Secretary, is there any more information on how this could have happened? Have the SNCB and Infrabel evaluated this incident yet? Have they taken any steps to make this impossible in the future? How did the cooperation between SNCB and Infrabel go? In case of such incidents, there is sometimes a hair in the butter between the two. Is it necessary to take further action to avoid such incidents in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u4	Madam Minister, it is a rather disturbing fact that I would like to discuss with you since an empty and driverless train has been travelling between the stations of Landen and Tirlemont. According to my information, the driver noticed a defect, stopped the convoy and left the driver's cabin to control the problem. Suddenly, the train restarted on its own at low speed. Is this the first time this has happened or has it ever happened? What is your position on the subject? Is a train capable of restarting alone? A system would not have worked; could the driver not have stopped the machine? Has an investigation been initiated? With what results? How can we prevent this from happening again?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u5	SNCB has informed me of the following. Because of a brake incident, the train driver left the train to see it. However, he left the train to immobilize. After the brake problem was solved, the train started moving under the influence of gravity. The automatic watch device, or emergency pedal, could not be activated because, when a train is stationary and therefore after the driver has left the train to inspect it, the reverse lever is in a neutral position. As a result, the automatic monitoring device is not activated. It comes to my mind that, in so far as a mistake was made in this case, the convoy was not properly immobilized when the driver left it. A reminder of the existing instructions for driving personnel will be made. Furthermore, the correct application of these instructions will be subject to additional checks at regular intervals. SNCB confirms to me that this is the first time such an incident has occurred.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u6	Madam Minister, thank you. Obviously you conclude that this is a human error, but make no mention of the technical aspects. With your explanations, I understand the problem of the "non-activation" of the emergency pedal mechanism, but you did not answer questions about TBL1+ and ETCS. Was this line equipped? If so, why has it not been possible to brake as this safety equipment allows? If this is only a human error, the issues of continuing training are highlighted, as are the pressures on drivers' work. I would like us to be able to make, today or in a second phase, all the clarity on the technical aspects and, in particular, on the equipment of the other safety mechanisms: TBL1+ and ETCS. It is a major issue for the future because to say that this is the first time is one thing, but it must not happen again with other consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u7	Madam Minister, thank you for your reply, which is brief but clear. There are, of course, a number of questions that remain open. A first element is the moment when that train started to run without a driver on board. What steps have been taken to get that train under control at that time? I understand that the train has been given freedom of movement, taking into account that the journey continues further along, which would reduce the speed of the train. This allowed another member of staff to leave to slow down the train. A second element concerns TBL1+. I suspect, Mrs. Fonck, that once the engine's shut down, TBL+ has lost control of it. I'm not a technician, but I think that's the explanation for that. However, it is strange that a train is not braked if it is shut down, or that the train does not have a hand brake, to say it in car terms. So there are still some questions that need to be studied further. As Mr Fonck has already pointed out, the main concern is, of course, that such a thing cannot happen anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u8	Minister, I think you will do everything you can to prevent this from happening again. We all wish it. We will see in the future what different measures are to be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u9	Colleagues, following a Conference of Presidents, we have received a reminder to the Speaker of the House regarding strict compliance with the Rules of Procedure. Committee chairmen are requested to enforce the timing of questions/answers – no more than 5 minutes. If you exceed this time, there will be no reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u10	Madam President, Madam Minister, following the crash of a Germanwings aircraft in 2015 caused by a pilot suffering from psychological problems, the German government has announced the strengthening of controls on personnel navigating. As such, unannounced tests will be conducted to detect the presence of alcohol, drugs and drug substances in pilots. Moreover, companies flying under the German flag will also have to set up watch mechanisms for their crew to ensure that employees have all the physical, psychological and moral conditions to work. In view of what has been decided in our German neighbours, I would like to ask you the following questions. What measures have been taken in Belgium following the Germanwings crash? Has increased controls been imposed on airlines, if any, with arrangements similar to those adopted in Germany? What are the rules currently in force regarding the minimum presence of crew members in the cockpits of Belgian-flagged airliners? Do you have data on the number of pilots that have been positively controlled by your drug and alcohol services? What is the development of the situation in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u11	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the final report of the Civil Aviation Safety Investigation and Analysis Board (CASB) on the Germanwings aircraft accident has just been presented. The Office made several security recommendations. These recommendations should help the various European authorities to assess the measures to be taken. The European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) is working on a series of measures following the Germanwings flight accident, including the medical screening of pilots and their ongoing medical assessment, which will be implemented in Belgium as soon as they are published. Currently, alcohol or drug control is not routinely performed during the medical examinations of pilots or cabin crew. However, as part of routine blood tests carried out during the pilots' medical examinations, certain biological indicators (gamma-GT or other) may indicate potentially abnormal consumption, including alcohol. This then falls under the cover of medical secrecy and the person concerned is individually monitored by the medical service concerned. The medical certificate may then be suspended or limitations may be imposed. EASA has issued a recommendation on this subject to Member States in the form of a non-binding Safety Information Bulletin (SIB). The SIB recommends that airlines update their procedures so that at any time at least two authorized persons are present in the cockpit. Belgian operators have chosen to follow this SIB all the more easily since some already applied this type of procedure. Apart from the examinations carried out in connection with the issuance and maintenance of medical certificates, any checks shall be carried out at random by the police services. The DGTA has not been informed in the last two years of positive controls on alcohol and drug pilots carried out in the territory of Belgium. Some companies operating on Belgian territory organise unannounced internal controls, particularly with regard to drug use.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u12	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. If recommendations have been made, we hope that the measures will be implemented as soon as possible. We can also welcome the fact that there has been no positive control in recent years. If this kind of incident is relatively rare, when it happens, the consequences are disastrous. It is important that preventive measures can be taken. I see you are following this carefully. We will return to you once the measures have been implemented more concretely.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u13	Minister, on February 19, there were particularly disturbing events near the locality of Aubechies. Individuals have in fact sheared the protective fence of the Eurostar tracks to place a block of concrete on the rails. As a result, a high-speed train struck this obstacle and had to start emergency braking. Fortunately, no victims are to be deplored. We will all agree, and a major disaster has been avoided. The question of the safety of railway installations is therefore clearly raised. While it is impossible for federal officers to monitor every metre of ballast in our territory, all measures must be taken to prevent offences and such criminal behaviour. I would also like to ask you the following questions. Have your services identified any particular flaws that would have allowed the perpetrators to commit their misdemeanour? What are the lessons learned in terms of improving the protection of railway installations? What measures have you already adopted to improve the situation? Has a complaint been lodged with the judicial services concerned? Finally, can you tell me if you are optimistic about the identification of any suspects?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u14	Mr Calomne, following the Thalys attack on 21 August, Infrabel took the following initiatives: complete control of high-speed lines, install additional cameras and predict where it is possible to deviate in case of danger. In addition, Securail officers regularly patrol along the railway tracks. A check takes place seven days out of seven and twenty-four out of twenty-four to check if anyone has gained access to high-speed lines, however, is unfeasible. The case in question is managed by the Youth Prosecutor's Office in so far as the perpetrators are minors. Given their age, it is impossible for Infrabel to file a civil suit in the hands of an investigating judge. On the other hand, the infrastructure manager introduced an injured person's statement to be closely associated with the file and to obtain all information about the outcome of the investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u15	Minister, thank you for your full response and hope that this kind of incident will not happen again soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u16	Minister, the small tourist trains sector has recently undergone some regulatory changes. In December 2015, there was a merger of the notions of miniature train and tourist train, which gave rise to the new name "miniature tourist train" and resulted in a uniformity of the rules. In concrete terms, each train must now receive a communal permit in order to be able to travel in a city, whereas in the past its movements were linked to the concept of touristic locality. Imagine a small train passing through several communes during an event; the train management company must then obtain several authorizations, which is a significant waste of time. Another problem is the regulation of the sector. Since 2013, permit D is mandatory for tourist train drivers. However, exemption may be granted in certain situations: if the driver was born before 1982 and in the case of slow vehicles. However, a tourist train not exceeding 40 km/h may be considered a slow vehicle. This creates confusion among the managers of miniature tourist trains who would like to know with certainty whether a D licence is required in order to drive the train. Minister, do you not find it absurd that managers of miniature tourist trains must apply for authorization for each municipality in which their train passes? This will demotivate some who have invested in the sector. Does a driver of a tourist train now known as a miniature tourist train have to have a D permit while the vehicle he drives can be considered a slow vehicle?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u17	My colleague, a parliamentary initiative that led to the draft law adopted by Parliament in December 2015 had as its main objective to make possible the use of miniature tourist trains also outside of what falls under the strictly defined concept of tourist locality. However, no change has been adopted with regard to the need for communal authorisation, and no amendment has been tabled to this effect. Communal authorisation is therefore still compulsory to operate with these vehicles, as it was before. I would like to point out in this respect that these trains are not ordinary vehicles. They may consist of a series of trailers with a total length of 25 metres. They are not equipped with any safety systems, not even seat belts. Their bodyshell is very rudimentary and they are used to transport dozens of people of all ages. They are therefore not intended to travel long distances or to be mixed with dense and fast car traffic. With regard to the driving licence for these vehicles, miniature tourist trains have been classified by default, since 1 May 2013, in the category of D licences, since they can carry eight passengers in addition to their driver. However, two derogations permit the operation of miniature tourist trains for persons born before 1 October 1982 or who have a B or G licence for persons born after that date. If these trains fall into the category of slow vehicles, they cannot therefore exceed the speed of 40 km/h. If these trains are intended exclusively for folk events authorized by the municipality and are on the way to or from the municipality, or test for such events, they may not exceed the speed of 25 km/h.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u18	Madam Minister, thank you. I'll analyze your answer in detail. It has a lot of elements. In Tournai, this sometimes seemed to create a new problem in situations that have existed for ages.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u19	Madam President, Minister, my question deals with the minimum number of employees at SNCB in 2018. We have read that there is a draft agreement between the trade unions and SNCB and Infrabel. Only 2 200 employees would not be replaced until 2018. This is, of course, a whole lot less than the 6 000 that was mentioned earlier. The number of effectives would decrease to 31 765. CGSP Cheminots' top man said the following in the newspapers: "Compared to the design we acquired at the time," he meant the design of the previous year, "the number of redundancies announced is lower, but the status of the staff to be recruited is uncertain." We believe that the draft agreement should be feasible with the budgetary resources that the federal government makes available to both companies. We therefore consider it important to check whether and how the draft agreement between trade unions and companies fits into the budgetary context. This is a crucial factor for the viability of these companies, if not threatening to wipe out the mountain of debt and jeopardise its viability. Madam Minister, could you explain the draft agreement that was concluded? How many staff are effectively not replaced? What Staff Regulations will the new recruitments take place? Are they contractual or statutory? Will we continue to replace the driving staff, i.e. train drivers, train drivers, etc., one-on-one? How realistic is the draft agreement, taking into account the budgetary context in which companies are located?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u20	Madam President, Minister, the press has echoed the recruitment of 1,300 agents by railway operators SNCB, Infrabel and HR Rail. This large-scale operation is expected to address the retirement of a number of employees by 2025. In order to take stock of this issue, I would like to know exactly what the recruitment schedule is and whether a phase is planned for the next few years. What are the main types of positions to be filled? It is my responsibility that the operators have decided to launch a recruitment campaign by uniting their services. As a result, they ended a decade-old collaboration with a private communications company. Could you give us the reasons for this choice and explain the advantages in terms of management efficiency and potential savings? What measures have been adopted to involve regional employment agencies in this recruitment campaign?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u21	As regards Mrs De Coninck's question, according to HR Rail, the draft consists of several themes: employment, selection and recruitment, career, re-employment and professional reorientation, modernisation and simplification of regulation, the revision of certain elements of remuneration, social policy and diversity. The subjects of the preliminary agreement were worked out in the context of existing legal structures and the budgetary context and taking into account the quality of service and the efficient operation of the Belgian railways. According to HR Rail, it will be effective for the Belgian railways in three years, i.e. by 1 January 2019, reduced by 2 300 employees. For the typical railway professions, recruitment is carried out in a statutory context. For other relations, contractual arrangements are increasingly being chosen. Staff shall be replaced on the basis of real needs and taking into account developments and modernisation in the organisation of train traffic. Thus, on the basis of the current transport plan, train drivers and train escorts are replaced one by one. On the other hand, the concentration of the signal houses does not replace all signalers and substation chiefs. The productivity-enhancing measures already taken in December 2015 and February 2016 and a better organisation of work also allow not everyone to be replaced. When drawing up a draft agreement, the budgetary context in which companies are located was obviously taken into account. Finally, I would like to point out that the social agreement is an important but not the only element that will ensure that the government's objectives are achieved. The necessary efforts should also be made in terms of operating costs and investment costs. With regard to Mr Calomne's question, this year the companies have already partially communicated their needs to HR Rail. According to the latter, the number of recruitments to be carried out has to date been estimated at a minimum of 1,300. For the coming years, needs will be determined on the basis of the 2017 transport plan and the further modernization and optimisation of activities. Staff members shall be replaced on the basis of actual needs and taking into account the evolution and modernisation of the organisation of rail traffic. These include operational rail traffic personnel: train drivers, attendants, signalling cabin personnel and maintenance personnel. According to HR Rail, the contract with the external supplier was nearing completion. A new tender was therefore launched in 2015. None of the registered candidates met the expectations of the companies. It was finally opted for an in-house development. The communications services of SNCB, Infrabel and HR Rail have jointly developed a new campaign. The children of the railway workers were chosen as ambassadors for the railway trades. The slogan "Hard your dream, today your job" aims to highlight the pride of the staff in their work as well as the family spirit. For HR Rail, the development in clean management also demonstrates that, thanks to the collaboration of the three companies, it is a successful project. The cost of the entire campaign compared to the intervention of an external partner can only be determined at the end of this year. My expectations are, of course, that it will be cheaper. All vacancies on our railways are communicated to VDAB, Forem and Actiris. In addition, regional organizations are being used for specific tactical actions in order to fill job shortages in some regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u22	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. We are pleased that a social agreement is still possible and that we can see that savings can be made without bothering the traveller and without causing the railway workers to suffer a social massacre. I remember you saying that, for example, the train escorts are being replaced one by one. I believe that it is very important that, in the context of productivity and efficiency measures, it is possible not to replace certain staff. After all, a large number of people will retire in the coming years. They do not all need to be replaced, without compromising service provision.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u23	Minister, thank you for having answered my questions in an accurate and comprehensive manner. I am pleased that, in the absence of satisfactory external cooperation, companies have been able to enter into a partnership. That they put forward their children seems positive to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u24	Minister, the press has echoed your plan to regulate drone piloting in the Belgian sky. It seems that a royal decree designed to mark the rules of this expanding sector is indeed on the track. If I believe the information I have been able to gather, the proposed legal framework should include three categories of users: recreational, semi-professional and professional users, obligations in terms of pilotage training, but also insurance coverage. With regard to such an important issue as drones and the progress achieved by this government, I would like to ask you the following questions. What are the broad outlines of the proposed legal framework? Can you give us some details about preserving the security of our fellow citizens. What is planned for the level of user training? Could you give us information on the routes already envisaged on this subject, particularly at the level of school education? What is the outcome of consultations with the insurance sector on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u25	My colleague, the draft royal decree responds to the European Commission's remarks on product standards and the free movement of services. In addition, the European Commission has asked us to better consider operational risks. That is why three categories of drones were created. At the security level, the more likely the operations are to pose a risk to property and people on the ground, the stricter the rules for theft. As far as surveillance is concerned, DGTA, as is already the case for other aircraft, will therefore have the main responsibility of monitoring compliance with the obligations of drone users. The licences and authorizations provided for under this Royal Order will be issued by the DGTA, which may, if necessary, suspend or withdraw the said licences and authorizations. This control will be carried out through audits and inspections by the various DGTA departments. Its missions do not deprive other authorities such as the police or the Privacy Commission of their general competence in the context of their mission. DGTA will inform the police and local authorities when this draft Royal Decree comes into force. As such, a "drones" brochure from the Mobility FPS will soon be provided. Any drone, whether used for commercial, professional or recreational purposes, must be insured. We have received the insurance sector for the first draft, and we have also received it as a result of the adaptations desired by the European Commission. Telepilots must be responsible and ensure that the insurance sector takes proper care of the type of drone used. Finally, for training, the Royal Decree provides the theoretical and operational elements to be assimilated for each telepilot. They will be able to complete their training at the specialist centres in Belgium. This knowledge will then have to be justified in an examination for the issuance of a telepilot certificate to an examiner approved by the DGTA. For operations with greater risk, a theoretical and practical examination will be required at DGTA.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u26	Minister, thank you for your answers. I see that security is a major part of this project. This will reassure citizens who may be concerned about the drifts that may result from the use of drones. I will follow closely the developments on the issue, but the news is encouraging.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u27	Madam President, road tunnels have attracted our attention a lot lately. I thought, why don't you worry about railway tunnels? Tunnels are tunnels! Madam Minister, the problem of road tunnels has caused me an irrepressible desire to ask you about the current state of railway tunnels. I have noticed that, since I officially tabled my question, the press has already relayed information from Infrabel. We are never more well served than by the very important managers of this country, who have the ability to bounce beautifully! Even before you answer me, I've already read some of the answers in the press, but I'm going to pretend to ask you the question. Not being fooled is a quality. Can the problem which has arisen for road tunnels or is it going to happen again for rail tunnels? We know, through the interesting and important study commissioned by Infrabel a few years ago at Lausanne's Polytechnic School - an excellent school - that the state of the Walloon and Brussels network is generally worrying. The question of Brussels rail tunnels therefore arises. I repeat here that it's not just the North-Midi junction. Let us not lose sight of a line like that which, one day, will take us to the Josaphat-Schuman tunnel that should open, nor the Bois de la Cambre tunnel and a series of other tunnels. The question of railway tunnels, particularly in Brussels, and in particular concerning the North-Midi junction – but not only – leads me to ask you the following question. Is there a risk that a situation of concern such as that experienced for road tunnels will exist? More precisely, in order to take the lead, and for the sake of prevention, is there a precise cadastre of the condition of the Brussels rail tunnels? What is the general state of these tunnels? How are the monitoring and evaluation of these infrastructures organised, and possibly the permanent maintenance of these tunnels?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u28	Madam President, dear colleague, Infrabel has a precise cadastre of the condition of the Brussels rail tunnels, carried out on the basis of the visits carried out every four years. The inspection of works of art is carried out in accordance with the regulatory technical requirements of Infrabel, chapter construction and maintenance of works of art. A distinction is made between the detailed inspection, which makes it possible to draw up a complete balance sheet of the work of art and to compare its state with the reference state following an eight-year cycle for the main lines. The systematic visit, which covers the essential parts of the work, follows an eight-year cycle of four years apart from the detailed inspection. Security is a priority for me, as you know. It is also the first priority of Infrabel in all areas falling within the competence of the infrastructure manager, whether it is traffic management or infrastructure control and, in particular, tunnels. Brussels rail tunnels do not present safety problems. There are no structural risks. If necessary, interventions are carried out, such as concrete repair, reinforcement of the structures with the aid of projected concrete, or other work to improve watertightness.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u29	Minister, I welcome two things. The first is the fact that there is a methodology at work on the part of the system operator. The second is the answer which is rather positive a priori; there is not too much apparent damage. I am delighted to have been able to ask the question and to have heard the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u30	Madam President, Minister, I am very attentive to the condition of the Ottignies station, whose accesses, wharves, and laneways are seriously inadequate for passenger traffic, which is constantly growing. The Ottignies station is one of the most important in Wallonia in terms of travellers. In 2015, all the political forces of Ottinto had expressed themselves with one voice in demanding these improvements, within the framework of the masterplan developed throughout the area surrounding the station. Their commitment was reaffirmed on February 24, 2016 with a new motion in support of the redevelopment of the station and its surroundings. The funds were initially provided for in the 2013-2025 IPP, but we know what happened. The actors in the case are very concerned and all the more so since your answer to my question of March 24, 2015, which referred responsibility to the Walloon Region and the City. Following the recent re-engagement of the federal government to take over the RER projects on lines 124 and 161 as soon as possible, much has been said, particularly with regard to Ottignies. In your remarks to the House, in Mr Cornu's comments on the RTBF and in the press documents issued by the SNCB, I have heard on several occasions about the partial renovation of the Ottignies station. Madam Minister, what is the concrete and detailed meaning of the "partial" renovation in the Ottignies station file, in connection with the RER? Will the next IPP include the necessary and planned investments under the initial master plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u31	Mr Cheron, the Ottignies train station welcomes a little less than twenty thousand travellers a day. Its particularity is the crossing of passengers in transit with others who board trains. It is also an important railway and intermodal node. To date, reception facilities are no longer suitable for such a complex station. A sheet on track, catenary and signalling work has been drawn up and submitted to the investment unit. It announces the start of some work for the period 2016-2020. It is also planned to renovate the wharfs and lanes towards Brussels and to develop new gateways to these wharfs. The precise definition of planned works and developments at the Ottignies station is discussed within the investment unit and will be communicated as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u32	Minister, I will therefore consider that your answer is partial to the extent that it is provisional. You yourself say that some work is planned for 2016-2020, but that the questions asked have still not been answered and are referred to future choices. Nevertheless, I consider the introduction of your answer to be positive, as you have pointed out the number of daily travellers. It's like Carmen: the rising guard and the descending guard.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u33	It's Wallonia's second station.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u34	Yeah, but she lost a spot. These were bad numbers. If one or the other mayor MR invites you, I advise you to look at the intersections. You will see that the situation is particularly difficult. You have to be almost a fan of mountaineering to accomplish this daily feat. I will therefore come back to ask you again quickly about this important Walloon railway node.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u35	Minister, line 130A Charleroi-Erquelinnes has just been rehabilitated. All work has been completed, including all repairs to the works involved - bridges and tunnels. You know that there is a TER that connects Maubeuge to Paris via Saint-Quentin. Would it not be a good thing to consider a direct line that could connect Charleroi-Sud to Paris, via Erquelinnes, Maubeuge and Saint-Quentin? Since there are already partnerships between SNCB and SNCF, I think this alternative should be explored. This line could be a great opportunity to reopen Wallonia to France, since there is no rail link at present, and thus to promote the economic expansion of the southern part of the country. Later, it will also focus on the timetables and deadlines of this line, consider trains that would pass more in the morning and in the evening (like twice in the morning and twice in the evening). Previously, this existing line made it possible to reach Paris in three hours. The train left around 0800 and arrived at around 1100 in Paris. In short, a considerable saving of time and money for commuters and a nice opening to our region. Minister, have you ever thought about this alternative and have you made the necessary contacts to see if this line can be created? So what would be the burden-sharing agreement between SNCB and SNCF? If not, would it be possible to consider a study on the subject? What would be the financial amounts of such a construction site, knowing that some of the rails are already electrified? What equipment could be used?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to these studies, the reopening of several cross-border passenger lines in the south and north of the country has indeed been under consideration in my office for several months. In particular, contacts were made with local authorities. At my request, SNCB is currently studying different scenarios for new cross-border links, including the one mentioned in your question. I hope that these studies can be clearly planned in future management contracts for SNCB and Infrabel. At this stage, no financial agreement has yet been discussed with SNCF. Furthermore, according to SNCB, it does not have traction equipment capable of providing passenger services between Belgium and Paris. However, other avenues are being explored in collaboration with SNCF.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u37	Minister, I understand that we are studying whether it is to know the distribution of the financial cost, but I am dubious about the need to do it again. As I have told you, all the work has been done. It is therefore a fully electrified line. We already have a TER coming to Maubeuge. According to this you tell me, it would be possible to imagine that the motor was changed to Maubeuge or Erquelinnes, which would be completely stupid! It might as well be a partnership to extend to Charleroi where, there, a simple care will be made. Therefore, an agreement on the allocation of operating costs would need to be reached, which would probably not be very high. I think the distance between Erquelinnes and Charleroi is 15 km, which is a short distance. I would like to recall that this line already existed. SNCB deletes it because it focused on Thalys. Without wanting to turn the knife in the wound, I remind you that the Thalys passing through Namur, Charleroi, Mons and Lille no longer exists. I think we should speed up the process a little bit. It seems to me to be a good policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u38	Madam Chair, Madam Minister, the last time we discussed this item in plenary, following the announcements by the CEO of SNCB, you didn't commit much, but you tried to say that we were making noise for little. At the same time, SNCB launched a consulting market, which you cannot ignore, entitled "For the development of a pricing strategy for SNCB products". The content of this consultancy contract, launched on 4 February and today concluded since the deadline was 22 February, is very clear. I am not going to read you the whole of it, but the terms cannot be more explicit: we are talking about maximising revenues, quantifying an overall potential for additional revenues. These are elements to be taken into account. This goes even further as it is already said in this consultancy market that, I quote: "The new management contract with the State is under negotiation, but it will provide SNCB with a new framework for more freely adjusting its tariffs in the future. For some products which account for a large part of travellers' income, price developments have been largely pre-defined; for the others, the price can be determined with a greater margin of manoeuvre." The description of the content of this consulting market shows that SNCB confirms the willingness of its managers to defend increased tariff freedom and "maximize their revenues" to the detriment of commuters and users. In addition, SNCB states that it already has its guarantees to be able to make progress on this point under the future management contract, as if these points had already been confirmed and guaranteed to them. In addition, I have already spoken on several occasions on the issue of car parks and on the fact that some free car parks will become paid. Today there are 45 car parks for a total of more than 18,500 places with access controls and therefore paying. We discover the very clear objectives of B-Parking by 2018 to add these 45 additional parking spaces, thus 18 500 additional paid places, to reach a total of 42,000 paid places by 2018. In addition, the service provided to commuters continues to ask questions, especially during rush hours. Punctuality is lacking, trains are removed, there are not enough seats. All this is clearly observed during rush hours. There is a very clear will to maximize revenues, to have tariff freedom and to increase tariffs. This is combined with an increase of 15 to 30 per cent in the annual cost for the commuter who must park in a parking lot that has become paid. This is very important, and it is above all contrary to a mobility policy that makes rail attractive and competitive. You know that as I do, everyone does his calculation. The person sees the risk of delay. You're gonna tell me that in the car, there's traffic jams. Stoppages have been removed in some stations. The user notes that the rate has increased and that he may have to pay the parking. Finally, he does his little calculation and compares what it would cost him with the car. The cost is clearly a direct part of the attractiveness and competitiveness of rail. It's about avoiding sending the commuters back to the car. Minister, how do you explain that this consulting market was launched when we were trying, not just in the opposition, to make you understand and make the SNCB understand the importance of developing services before focusing on a revenue maximization strategy via tariffs? How much does this consulting contract cost? I'm interested. I have explored websites and this market has been launched not on a Belgian scale but on a European scale. I'm waiting for you to confirm that. What are your positions as a minister, as well as that of this government, in the face of these ambitions and in particular the statements that already announce a whole series of very clear increases in tariffs?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u39	Madam President, Mrs Fonck, the future management contract is currently under negotiation. Among the elements that form part of this future management contract is the tariff component. SNCB informs me that, as part of an internal reflection on the tariff range of SNCB, it has sought additional clarification from experts in this field. The amount is not fixed or known because SNCB has launched an RFI (request for information) and not an order with specifications. SNCB wanted to question the market on this issue before a specification was launched. This procedure makes it possible to check whether the required skills exist and to establish a pre-selection of candidates on the basis of the technical and organisational capacities of external providers. This procedure also makes it possible to enrich the overall reflection and a precise specification is then sent to the selected candidate. As for the tariff policy applied to car parks, I refer you to my answer to question No 7448 by Mr Laurent Devin at the Committee on Infrastructure on 9 December.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u40	Minister, there's what you're saying and what you're not saying. We feel like we have a minister who is the spokesperson for SNCB. You're giving us an explanation. This is also fun because SNCB has removed the consulting market from www.b-rail.be. This is for the little story because, in any case, consulting markets are obviously available in a snap of fingers on many other websites. It is quite fun to see that SNCB no longer even dares to take on this consulting market that it has launched itself. That being said, this deal was launched and you didn't tell me how much it cost. How much will SNCB actually spend on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u41	The amount is not fixed or known.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u42	Minister, I have the consulting market in front of me and it is extremely clear. It's consulting, and I guess you know what it is, there'll be a cost. Unless SNCB works as it did in the nineteenth century, and I don't think that is the case, it has defined an amount and a budget that it will be able to allocate to it. Secondly, this consultancy contract, at the level of its missions, is also clearly defined to increase tariffs. Thirdly, should we remind you that the CEO of SNCB has already expressed a clear support for higher rates during peak hours, on substantial tariff changes in school subscriptions, to target students and seniors, large families? Is it worth recalling that in February a 4% increase in tariffs was already made in addition to inflation? Should we also remind the minister that you are the minister responsible for this issue, that you are the minister responsible for mobility and that it is therefore up to you to define the priority and strategic areas of mobility? In relation to this, your responsibility is to ensure an attractive and competitive policy for commuters, including the issue of the fare to prevent commuters from being returned to their cars. Therefore, it is your responsibility to send a very clear and strong signal to SNCB. At the very least, I was waiting here for you to have positioned yourself in this consulting market to freeze the procedure completely and not to start consulting work, the objective of which is purely and simply to achieve maximum revenue. Madam Chair, I move a motion of recommendation, which I will not read.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u43	I would just like to make it clear that it is in the management contract that I am intervening. As far as the internal market in SNCB or Infrabel is concerned, I never intervene. There are members of the executive committee and, depending on a certain amount, they can make arrangements themselves; if that exceeds a certain amount, it goes to the executive committee and then to the board of directors. So, although I am the minister responsible, I am not the one who manages the markets of these two companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u44	Surprisingly, in this case, this point has never been passed on to the board of directors. This has obviously been done without even informing him. Things seem to have been done in catimini. But, minister, read the content: "The new management contract will provide SNCB with a new framework to adapt its tariffs more freely in the future." The way in which this price can be released is even detailed, as well as on which niches this can be done. The market is still public.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u45	I'm done with the discussion. Mrs. Fonck has the last word. It's closing. Madam Minister, please don't reply or we'll spend the afternoon. I'm just applying the rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u46	Thank you, Madam Chair, for enforcing the Rules of Procedure! Minister, it is time to send a clear signal to SNCB. If you don't, SNCB will only do more to maximize its recipes on the back of commuters. This is not an intelligent mobility policy. This policy will have only one effect: to increase traffic jams and to send commuters back to cars. This is not how SNCB will be better off.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u47	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Catherine Fonck and the response of the Minister for Mobility, responsible for Belgocontrol and the Belgian National Railway Company, asks the federal government - to impose a freeze on the tariffs applied by SNCB in order to preserve the attractiveness of rail transport and to prevent citizens from turning even more towards cars, even though punctuality and service are still largely insufficient, and especially during peak hours; - to amend the SNCB management contract in order to guarantee free access to B-Parkings for SNCB users." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Catherine Fonck and the reply of the Minister for Mobility, responsible for Belgocontrol and the National Society of the Belgian Railways, asks the federal government - freeze the rates of SNCB in order to safeguard the attractiveness of the train and to prevent the population from making even greater use of the car, in the light of the service provided, especially during peak short-term punctuality and service; - amend the management contract of SNCB to ensure that rail passengers can make free use of the B-Parkings.' A simple motion was tabled by Caroline Cassart-Mailleux and Inez De Coninck and by Jef Van den Bergh. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux and Inez De Coninck and by Mr Jef Van den Bergh. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u48	Madam President, Minister La Libre Belgique of 24 February published a report on the consequences in Belgium, and more specifically on the coast, of the dismantling of the southern part of the Calais "jungle" by the French government. The mayors of several cities bordered by the North Sea have been concerned about a large influx of migrants, as they fear the creation of a Belgian "jungle". This article highlighted, among other things, the collaboration that exists between SNCB officers and the police. Indeed, officers were asked to report to the police the presence of migrants in stations, particularly those on the coast, in the light of recent events in northern France. While such collaboration can only be encouraged to facilitate the work of the police, some testimonies have caused some trouble. One of them reported the misadventures of a migrant who, after purchasing his train ticket, had been directly reported by the ticket office to the police – on two occasions. Minister, what directives have been communicated to SNCB staff regarding their expected collaboration with the police on migrants? Is there a collaborative agreement between SNCB and the police on this matter? If so, what are the terms? If not, have you considered developing one so that everyone knows their respective obligations? Did you learn about this report and the testimony you gave? Have you asked for an internal investigation so that this type of behaviour does not happen again, as long as it is real?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u49	Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, the SNCB gives me the following information. The staff of the railway company were instructed to report to the Security Operations Center (SOC) any presence of migrant groups in the railway stations. The SOC in turn informs the Police Information and Command Centres (ICCs). This practice exists for any gathering which it may be necessary to channel. This is the case with football fans or demonstrators. Train attendants should report only the rest of the boat. In addition, the Corporate Security Service has strengthened the presence of its field experts in the coastal stations. Their mission is to help people in trouble to get in touch with the appropriate support services. The instructions were decided at a meeting between the police and the Corporate Security Service. They provide for intensified cooperation by all parties, each acting in accordance with its jurisdiction and within its territory. The report published in La Libre Belgique raises only one aspect of the current situation in the stations of the cities concerned with the issue of migrants. Moreover, this is not a denunciation, but a general approach to safety at railway stations and trains. The follow-up to the communication to CIC of the presence of groups of migrants is not known a priori by the counter-officer. The sale of tickets was therefore legitimate.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u50	Madam Minister, thank you for your information.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u51	Madam President, Madam Minister, poverty among the population is unfortunately a reality. It is not uncommon to meet beggars mainly in the streets or even in railway stations in large cities. But, obviously, the problem is exploding since, from now on, they are also on board trains. Inside them, they distribute a small paper explaining that they need help and money for various reasons. They then return to pick up the paper, hoping that it will be accompanied by a small note or a room. The approach, though not aggressive, is disturbing. It can easily be assumed that such an approach also involves getting on board the train without a transport ticket. It is for this reason that I wish to take stock with you of this issue. Minister, are you aware of this problem? What is your position on this one? Is there any regulation in this regard? If so, what is it planning? If not, do you intend to introduce one? Are train attendants trained to cope with this? If not, have they received instructions? What about beggars who board a train without a transport ticket?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u52	Dear colleague, begging is considered an offence in railway infrastructure such as railway stations, for example, only if it is aggressive. On the other hand, it is totally prohibited on trains. It is in this context that the Securail officers and the police are fighting against the phenomenon mentioned in the question. Accompaniers are not specifically trained on this issue. However, they received a directive on this subject, which was recalled to them in July 2015 following the resurgence of the problem on board trains. This directive states that in the presence of a beggar on the train, the attendant must immediately call on the SNCB Security Operations Center to request an intervention from the Securail agents who will draw up a report. In fact, beggars on board trains are generally not in possession of a valid transport document. In this case, the train attendant shall apply the rules in force and shall propose to him/her that he/she pay his/her journey at the fare on board and, in case of refusal, shall draw up a passenger irregularity report. As with any traveller who does not regularize his or her situation within the prescribed time frame, SNCB may initiate amicable or even judicial proceedings in order to recover the amount owed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u53	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u54	Madam President, Madam Minister, rail traffic was disrupted between the stations in Brussels-Nord and Brussels-Midi on Monday 22 February following a computer problem. The consequence of this was that trains could only travel one by one on the line for safety reasons. In fact, the trains were not detected on the Nord-Midi link as a result of this computer incident. Train drivers arriving in Brussels-Nord or Brussels-Midi had to report their presence by telephone to the switch post. Then the trains could run one by one on the line. Minister, can you tell me if a breakdown of this magnitude has already occurred on the rail network? What are the reasons for this computer failure? Since the North-Midi junction is already very engorged, is there an alternative to rescue in case of a problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u55	Ms. Cassart, according to Infrabel, before 2007, there were some incidents of the same order. It is also to prevent this problem that Infrabel has adopted the Internet connectivity of systems in place of the old copper lines, which are very difficult to maintain and less reliable. This was a malfunction in the communication protocols of the Internet network in Brussels-Midi. Alternatives may be to provide for the duplication of the system and to identify convoys via telephones.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u56	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u57	As of 1 January 2015, the Belgian railway network had 1,818 level crossings, most of which are equipped with an active installation, i.e. gates and/or lights and bells. You know as I do, a crossing carries an accident risk and has a negative impact, particularly on punctuality. In this regard, I was delighted to learn, in a previous question, that the removal of level crossings was an issue to which you attached importance. Indeed, a crossing has a real impact on punctuality. When the train is announced, the barriers close and block road traffic. We have to wait until the train enters the station and leaves again for the gates to rise. In rush hours, it blocks all traffic. In Tilff, the railway station crossing is a good example of this because it leads to cascade lines. However, it is a direct access to the CHU in Liège, which is therefore a priority route. What would happen if an ambulance were blocked in the lines in the morning because of this crossing? In a previous question, you told me that Infrabel continues to remove grade crossings every year, which is why I am questioning you today. Minister, can you tell me how many level crossings will be removed during 2016? Is particular attention given to level crossings on a priority route, such as the one leading to a hospital, and in particular the one leading to Tilff? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u58	Dear colleague, Infrabel informs me that it is planned to abolish fifteen crossings during 2016. These will be abolished on the basis of the priorities set out in the level crossing plan and on the basis of the planned budgets. Priorities were set on the basis of three criteria: previous accidents, the risk of accidents and the impact on punctuality. It is indeed planned to abolish the crossing at Tilff. However, an appeal against the building permit was filed at the end of 2015. It is therefore necessary to wait for the decision on this point before we can determine the agenda for the work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u59	Madam Minister, can you confirm to me the information that the Brussels-Bâle link serving in particular the stations of Strasbourg, Luxembourg and Namur will be abolished on 4 April next?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u60	Colleagues, SNCB has provided me with the following information. In 2015, the IC Basel route linked Brussels to Basel twice a day without correspondence, including the cities of Namur, Libramont, Arlon, Luxembourg and Strasbourg. In view of the difficulties associated with the work on lines 161 and 162 and the introduction of the new transport plan, this train has been using, since the end of 2014, a ICJ domestic traffic path, which increases the number of stops in Ottignies, Gembloux, Ciney, Jemelle, Marloie and Marbehan and extends the journey time. Following the start-up of the second phase of the SNCF's new high-speed line, LGV Est, linking Paris to Strasbourg, SNCF needed the trail, i.e. the reservation of the railway line to operate a train used by IC Basel on French territory in order to put into service its new transport plan cadenced in the Lorraine and Alsace regions. As a reminder, the line between Paris and Baudrecourt has been operational since 2007. Therefore, in the absence of an appropriate track on French territory, the four national railway undertakings (Belgium, Luxembourg, France and Switzerland) had no choice but to terminate the Brussels-Bâle relationship from 1 April 2016. The existing relationship from Brussels will be maintained as far as Luxembourg. Basel will remain accessible via correspondence in Luxembourg. For example, I give you some comparisons of journey times. Starting from Brussels to Strasbourg, the time is 5:29 a.m. Starting from Namur with Eurocity to Luxembourg and Strasbourg, the time is 4:12 a.m. In the course of the second half of 2016, with the use by SNCF of the 2nd part of the LGV Est at Baudrecourt, this journey time will save one minute and will therefore be 4h11. The duration of the trip between Namur and Strasbourg will therefore be almost identical. It is important to add that in the course of the second half of 2016, after the works, Brussels-Midi - Roissy Charles de Gaulle airport - Strasbourg will be possible in 3:40. Pending the completion of the work, the journey time from this 3rd April will be 4 hours 06. SNCB Europe also states that Brussels and Luxembourg, currently connected by 16 IC links and 2 EC links, will be connected by 18 daily round-trips. The abolition of the two Brussels-Bâle ICs frees two hourly train paths allowing the commissioning of two additional IC trains between Brussels and Luxembourg. Of course, I remain attentive to these reflections in order to guarantee Wallonia a place of choice in the international offer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u61	Madam Minister, thank you for these points of answer. I understand that the absence of appropriate furrows in France is primarily due to the search for a solution to the lengthening of journey times on the line used; in all likelihood, because adequate investments have not been made on this line.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u62	If you wish, I can repeat the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u63	No! You said that the line was also deleted because the journey times were extended due to the work in progress. I'll read your answer again, but that's, in any case, what I heard. I therefore regret that we have not invested properly on this line so that it can continue. Indeed, no matter what you say, those who want to go to Switzerland are now facing a break in the load. I regret that, of course, because that is what threatens Namur's status as an international station.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u64	I have a question about the state of social dialogue in our railway companies. At the end of December, the trade unions announced five strike days, because the management had made some interventions in personnel policy, with which the trade unions disagreed. You have just said that some positive results have already been obtained from the consultation between trade unions and employers. The management took some steps to modernise personnel policy. The trade unions disagreed with this and threatened to strike. Of course, public opinion did not understand this. That is why social dialogue was soon resumed when it became apparent that the strikes were no longer acceptable. Progress would have been made on some partial aspects. According to the reports, there would be an agreement on weekend and night work in the maintenance workshops, the Sunday bonus would be abolished and the hours worked would be paid out. Finally, train delays will no longer be considered as hours worked. From now on, only hours actually worked are paid. Madam Secretary, can you give us an update on the social dialogue? Do you confirm the results of the consultation mentioned? When do you expect the meeting to be concluded?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u65	At the meeting of the National Joint Commission on 24 February last, a second package of productivity-enhancing measures was adopted in order to respond more flexibly to current and future operational needs. Firstly, the abolition of the time-bonification of Sunday work, secondly, the abolition of time-bonification for train delays, thirdly, the adaptation of the rules on collective leave, in the sense that it may be decided to include a number of annual holidays in the planning of all workplaces, and fourthly, the adaptation of the regulatory provisions to increase working hours and the employment in successive shifts in workshops and maintenance stations. On 2 March the amendments to the draft text of the Protocol of Social Agreement, submitted by the trade unions, were discussed at the HR Coordination meeting in the presence of the trade union presidents. On 3 March, the draft protocol of social agreement 2016-2018 was submitted to and discussed in the Steering Committee. The last comments made during the Steering Committee were subsequently incorporated into the draft. On 7 March the draft agreement was delivered to the trade unions, which will submit it to their authorities. An answer is expected by the end of March.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u66	Madam Secretary, thank you for your clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u67	Madam President, Madam Minister, you confirmed that a letter of intent had been signed between the Belgian and Ethiopian authorities so that Ethiopian Airlines could obtain a permanent traffic right for Belgian cargo flights to Dubai, Hong Kong and Shanghai, lines to Asia that are currently provided by TNT Airways. Clearly, 28 rotations per week would have been granted with direct flights (day flights for the DHL Global Forwarding and not night flights for DHL Express). But it is true that so far we do not have much detail. Minister, my first question relates to the ongoing negotiations with Ethiopian Airlines and the airports concerned. What stage are these negotiations at? Can you tell us whether decisions have already been taken on the number of rotations, the airports concerned, etc.- Is that what you're saying? Have you taken into account the impact of this agreement on all Belgian airports? Have all airports been consulted? My second question concerns the employment aspect and the Belgian operators. According to the press, Ethiopian Airlines promised to create jobs. This seems to me to be quite uncertain with regard to the type of activity of this company. Indeed, the latter operates mainly as a low cost carrier for cargo brokers. These brokers transport preconditioned cargo for air transport to an airport where it is loaded into another aircraft. It is therefore a handling which requires very few personnel. In my view, the risk is rather to lose highly qualified Belgian jobs. Moreover, it should be noted that Ethiopian Airlines is not subject to the same rules as European operators. In doing so, we organize, in a way, a form of unfair competition, a form of social dumping. Could you give me your point of view on this? Thirdly, do you not think that there is a risk that this agreement will turn against the airports of Zaventem and Bierset? Indeed, it is my responsibility that Ethiopian Airlines would have clearly announced its intention to stay in Maastricht, simply because it would have better conditions. Finally, this may turn directly against the above-mentioned airports.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u68	Dear colleague, bilateral consultations between Belgian and Ethiopian civil aviation authorities took place on 11 and 12 February 2016. A Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) negotiated by DGTA was signed between the authorities amending the previous MoU in June 2015. With regard to freight frequencies, the memorandum of understanding of June 2015 provided for unlimited frequencies between Ethiopia and Belgium, the right of third and fourth freedom. The submission also provided for 21 frequencies per week with fifth freedom of the air. The February 2016 MoU increases these fifth freedom rights from 21 to 28 frequencies per week. Traffic rights still apply to all Belgian airports. We do not interfere in the choice of the airport. However, one thing is clear: it will only be day flights to Brussels. I would remind you that this decision can prevent a foreign carrier from leaving Belgium for a neighbouring country, which could have a heavy economic impact on at least two Belgian airports. As regards the February 2016 consultation, all Belgian stakeholders, namely Belgian air carriers and airports, were consulted. Various meetings were held by both my firm and DGTA. It is also a good practice for Belgian air carriers to be invited and participate in bilateral negotiations as observers, as was the case here with TNT Airways and SN Brussels Airlines. Airports are also invited to comment beforehand, which has been done positively by Brussels and Liège airports.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u69	Madam Minister, I am well aware of the consultations that have taken place and of the information you are giving me on the memorandum of understanding. When you talk about a risk, it is about a relocation and a departure to Maastricht. This surprises me because for a Boeing 777 for example, it is impossible to take off at full load from the short track from Maastricht to Hong Kong or to Shanghai. In relation to this, I think it is not impossible that there was an incorrect form of blackmail. On the employment front, policies cannot on the one hand say that they are doing their utmost to combat social dumping and to organise it on the other. Here, there is clearly one issue that no one has considered: that of unfair competition with respect to our Belgian operators and our qualified Belgian workers. Ethiopian Airlines is not subject to the same rules as European operators. This form of unfair competition is a real problem. I therefore draw your attention and the attention of the government as a whole to this issue. I would also like to say that it would be time, in terms of airport policy, for a policy to be drawn up with all the actors concerned, for the development of the air cargo in favour of employment and Belgian operators. I hope you have heard the cry of the Belgian Cockpit Association (BeCA). Compared to their analysis of the whole issue of the cargo, key issues are at the heart of this debate. We must take this into account to influence our policy today and for the next few years.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u70	Madam President, I thank the minister who is present in committee, unlike many of her colleagues. This is particular today, in the context of the budgetary conclave. We couldn't get Minister Peeters...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u71	Mr Gilkinet, I would like to point out that I will enforce the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u72	Minister, I am asking you a local question that has a global scope. His subject is the reassignment of the building at Godinne Station, which is an ancient soap opera worthy of finally finding a positive outcome, and why not with you as minister. Indeed, the project to transform the building's floor into social housing, carried out by the Société de Logement de service public la Dinantaise, was already included in the 2004-2005 anchor plan of the commune of Yvoir. I have had the opportunity to question successive SNCB ministers on several occasions as to the difficulties of reaching an agreement between SNCB and Dinantaise. The main focus of the negotiations was the fixing of the cannon required by SNCB. The SNCB did not appear to take into account that the rents potentially collected by the Dinantaise for the occupancy of housing would remain limited, as they would be adapted to the incomes of the occupants, in the context of public housing. In autumn 2015, an agreement-in-principle was finally reached between the two parties. Unfortunately, it is my responsibility that the text of this report has not yet been submitted to the Board of Directors of SNCB. Given SNCB's current policy of closing or limiting access to some of its stations, the Godinne project is a good example of potential conversion. It has a social and commercial dimension, since the ground floor would be occupied by a local business, not to mention the heritage aspects. This is one of the last mosane stations. It is absolutely superb, even if it is in the process of being severely degraded because it is not occupied. This project also has a mobility dimension since the reception would be much better if the station were occupied. It would be regrettable if it could not succeed. Madam Minister, why has the agreement between SNCB and Dinantaise not yet been formally signed, unless it has been signed since my question was tabled? Has it been submitted to the Board of Directors of SNCB? If not, when will he be? Are you committed to working towards a quick conclusion? In general, what is your approach to the management of SNCB's real estate assets, which is organised in close consultation with local authorities and which aims, where possible, to reallocate buildings to public utility projects such as housing, beyond the issue of safeguarding the heritage? I think we have a typical example here.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u73	Dear colleague, an agreement in principle has been reached with the Dinantaise to grant her a 66-year-old emphyteosis right to the former building of the Godinne railway station. SNCB will inform the Dinantaise of its decision on the continuation of this project by the end of March at the latest. With regard to SNCB's general policy on the upgrading of old station buildings, SNCB is seeking with local authorities the various possible reallocations of buildings and possible win-win partnerships. Depending on the new allocation of the property – housing, trade or other – and the investments made and the services offered to rail customers, SNCB proposes either an occupation authorization or a right of emphyteosis. In the absence of agreement with the municipalities, SNCB addresses the private market.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u74	Minister, thank you for your response, which confirms your commitment to reach agreement by the end of March. So the case could finally be completed. I can generally validate the idea of seeking win-win partnerships with local authorities, although, in this case, the case has dragged a lot. I really urge you to encourage this kind of agreement. I am thinking of another agreement reached by the commune of Profondeville for the reopening of the Lustin railway station, to allow passengers, even if there is no longer a ticket office, to wait for the train in good conditions. This type of agreement must be really encouraged. As soon as these houses are in a position to be rented, I invite you to visit them because this is an exemplary collaboration between SNCB and the housing company concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u75	Minister, this question was tabled in writing on January 26. As I am sometimes impatient, I asked it again in the form of an oral question. As part of the revitalization of the railway station district in Namur, several projects have been launched. These included the reassignment of the site of the former post office and the land adjacent to the boulevard Mélot. This concern makes sense in order to avoid the appearance of a canker in the city centre of the capital of Wallonia. A promoter has thus imagined the installation on site of an office complex as well as a hotel. The construction of this hotel is conditioned by the sale of the land by SNCB, which is slow to materialize despite the apparent intention of some of the company's officials to proceed with the sale of the site. I am not the promoter's representative, but I think that, with a view to the proper reallocation of public space, there should be clarity on this issue and rapid progress should the SNCB agree. Minister, can you confirm that SNCB intends to sell the land adjacent to the old post at Mélot Boulevard? Can you provide an update on the status of the file? How long does SNCB intend to communicate its decision? What procedure will be implemented to ensure its success?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u76	Dear colleague, SNCB informs me that it intends in the future to enhance the site adjacent to the former station at Boulevard Mélot in Namur. The area concerned belongs to both SNCB and Infrabel. Currently, many of the technical facilities required for public service missions are still present on the site, including a telecom centre, cables, an electric substation, electrical installations supplying all the electrified lines in Namur, as well as other things. The renewal and replacement of these facilities are not yet scheduled. Therefore, SNCB informs me that it is not yet in a position to specify the time limit within which it will conduct a call for tenders with a view to valuing this area. In any case, the exploitation of the site will be widely advertised in order to search for the best offer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u77	Minister, "in the future" is vague! It can be in a hundred years! You will have understood that this file would deserve to go up above the pile. I understand that it must be agreed between SNCB and Infrabel. It is not for nothing that we plead for the uniqueness of the railway undertaking. Technical details of the equipment required for the proper operation of the railway shall be determined. It's perfectly audible. The sale of land that is of no other use to SNCB represents new revenue and is a response to urban issues in an important city of Wallonia. After the sale, the promoters will manage, of course. I can only encourage you to be attentive to this issue and to try to push SNCB and Infrabel to agree to quickly materialise this intention that you confirm.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u78	Madam Minister, my question was initially merged with some other questions. Last year 47 accidents occurred at railway crossings, of which 33 were on passenger lines and 14 were on port lines. Unfortunately, 11 deaths were also to be regretted. Other questions were already on the subject, in particular on the railway crossing plan. I have just heard that 15 railway crossings will be abolished in 2016. However, it would also be useful and useful to carry out an evaluation of the plans made at the time and of what was effectively achieved. After all, the ambition was much higher than what we see in reality. My questions on this are as follows, Madam Secretary. Can you give the category of consideration where the accidents occurred? Is that correct with what I wrote in the written record of my question? Have procedures been initiated to recover costs from the next of kin? I shall drop that question because after four months I have received an answer to my written question on this matter. Did an evaluation of the new call signal happen? What are the conclusions? In the past, it was decided to install flash cameras to consider railroads. Were there any records written in 2015? Which category of consideration was really closed? So where did investments happen? How many were planned to abolish in 2013, 2014 and 2015 and how many were effectively abolished? What budget is attached to this? What are the ambitions in 2016, 2017 and beyond to address the issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u79	In reply to your first question, I will provide you with the attached annex. You will also find elements of your answer to your sixth and seventh questions. Infrabel will let me know the following. There are different types of accidents to consider. Either it's an accident involving a person. It's either suicide under a train or accident by a train. In this case, Infrabel does not incur any costs, either on the victim's next of kin or on their insurance company. Either this is an accident involving a motor vehicle. If the driver is liable in this case, Infrabel shall recover the costs from the insurance company that will cover the vehicle in question. However, no story is collected from the victim's next of kin. In 2009, a pilot project was launched on the route in Mol with a radar device. As a result of a type approval problem, no report can be drawn up for road users. Since then, there hasn't been any other project. There was therefore no written record. The main conclusion is that this was a change project in which the general public had to get used to the new call signal. This explains why there were comments about a too quiet and too loud call signal. In 2012, nine reflections were transformed from passive signalization to active signalization without barriers and a transition was transformed from active signalization without barriers to active signalization with barriers. In 2013, a transition from passive signalization to active signalization without barriers was transformed and two were considered from active signalization with barriers and obstacle detection to active signalization with barriers. In 2014, no signification was transformed. In 2015, the passive signalization of one road was transformed into an active signalization without barriers. According to Infrabel, the abolition of 15 considera tions is planned in 2016. For the years 2017 and 2018, the available resources will depend on the multiannual investment plan to be adopted. Infrabel made a site visit to some identified trespass hotspots and planned the implementation of both infrastructure and sensitisation measures, such as the placement of tight closures, in order to limit access to the tracks. Infrabel wants to equip more than 17 kilometers of track with fences, on the identified hotspots, and provides for the installation of anti-trespass panels at the level of considering posts at a station. Infrabel has highlighted 70 considerations for the installation of anti-trespass panels. Infrabel will conduct a number of awareness campaigns through various media in 2016. Also in 2016, Securail and the railway police will conduct various control actions and repressive actions in a number of stations and consider a number of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u80	Madam Minister, thank you for your reply, which I will read again in the report. It is important that efforts are continued, because, unfortunately, 11 fatal accidents have taken place again. Madam Minister, sometimes we ask questions about figures here, but it takes four months for those figures to reach us. Perhaps we could talk to society sometime to see how this can be done more quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u81	Madam Minister, we have noted that since 2013, a number of train drivers have switched from SNCB to private operators such as B-Logistics and DB Schenker. According to them, wages are higher and there are a number of other extralegal benefits. There is also a different corporate culture. This is, of course, detrimental to SNCB, because SNCB has invested in training. The return on investment will then naturally decrease. In the meantime, consultations have been held and an agreement has been reached, which, among other things, determines the period of return. We're gonna have to pay faster now. The question is whether that regulation will pass the court's review. My questions on this are as follows. What is the cost of training a train driver? Is there a good monitoring of the number of people who start training and the number of people who drop out after training, as in the case of the Defence Department at the time? How many train drivers have effectively switched to other operators since 2013? How do we plan to reverse that tide? What are possible action points that can be worked out?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u82	How many train drivers start training at SNCB every year varies according to age pyramid and operational needs. We can say that in recent years between 350 and 500 train drivers have been recruited each year. Taking into account the duration of the initial training, the cost of the training equipment and the success rate of the candidates in the training, this amounts to about €80 000 per certified train driver. Since the real reason for the dismissal is not always given up, we can only estimate the number of drivers who have switched operators since 2013. We estimate this number at about fifty, of which about thirty went to B-Logistics. In December 2015, the regulation was amended in the sense that statutory train drivers are obliged to pay a return fee if, before the expiry of the 10-year return period, they leave a company of the Belgian Railways voluntarily by resigning, leave a company of the Belgian Railways as a result of dismissal from office or dismissal or voluntarily leaving the degree or position they held at the end of the training. In addition, in February 2016, the notice period for dismissal on request by statutory staff members belonging to the train control staff was extended to 1 year. The staff status update notice will be published in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u83	Madam Minister, I remember that the training of a train driver costs EUR 80 000. In the context of the period of return and the commitment of people after training, we must be careful not to end up in a situation such as football. Under the Bosman judgment, it is prohibited to include in a contract of employment clauses providing for penalties for leaving a business or for unilateral suspension. That's what I'm afraid of.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u84	Madam President, Madam Minister, on 24 March 2015, almost a year ago, you answered my question about the intention of SNCB, communicated in the press, to reduce the services of the Eupen station, a real hub for European travellers from Germany. You told me at the time that "unlike what was announced in the press, the opening hours of the ticket office at the Eupen station will not be changed on April 1, 2015, from 05:45 to 20:15 on weekdays and from 06:00 to 20:30 on weekends and holidays." You also stated that an operational automaton is placed in the station and that the presence of SNCB in the station is ensured by an agent. However, on February 14, 2016 and the days that followed, we unfortunately had to see that the window closes at 1:00 p.m., resulting in a whole series of inconveniences, especially for students who do not have the opportunity to purchase their Campus Card. As for the ticket distributor, he's changed his location. It is not illuminated and there is no sign indicating its location. Moreover, during our visit, it did not work. Maybe it was an accident. Minister, what means are you going to put in place to honour the SNCB's promise to the municipal authorities of Eupen about the services provided by SNCB at Eupen station? What will be the actual opening hours of the windows? How many staff provide a presence in this station beyond their presence at the ticket office, in order to allow for the reception of customers, the dynamism of the city and in particular of the station, as well as the sense of safety and well-being of travellers? Finally, my last question is not specific to Eupen station. It often happens that the automatons are not illuminated and highlighted, while they are the only ticket distributors in many stations. Should we not, therefore, be careful to ensure access to and illumination of automatons?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u85	Dear colleague, the SNCB informs me that since 1 October 2015, the opening hours of the windows have been adjusted on Saturday and Sunday. The windows are open from 7 a.m. to 2.20 p.m. The validation of Campus cards is possible via the automaton. Students are more likely to use automatons. The purchase of Campus cards is possible at Eupen station during the opening times of the windows but also at any other station. Eupen's automaton was moved on February 2, 2016. It is now located in front of the entrance to the station, between two public lighting poles. It is therefore easily accessible and visible to travellers. In addition, the automaton is equipped with a lighting device which activates according to the luminous intensity of the environment. A display was placed on February 16 at the location of the old automaton to indicate this new location. The current window opening schedule is from 5:45 a.m. to 8:15 p.m. on weekdays, and from 7:00 a.m. to 2:20 p.m. on weekends. However, this timetable may be modified according to needs: passengers passing through the station, number of sales, etc. By way of service, only one agent is present at Eupen station to ensure the sale, reception and service to customers and travellers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u86	So the weekend schedules have been reduced and those of the week remain the same. With regard to the automaton, the changes were made after the observations of 14 February. On February 14, it was not between two lighting poles at the entrance to the station; I can guarantee it. If only one agent is required to ensure the full time range, he cannot be there all the time. But you're telling me that there's someone there all the time. Several people therefore provide a presence. Does the SNCB's commitment to the city of Eupen correspond to what has been negotiated with the municipality? I think these are commitments made freely. It would be good to respect them.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u87	Madam Minister, during the previous question session a number of fellow Members asked questions about the discovery of chromium 6 in the workshop in Gentbrugge. There were still uncertainties. Hence the question. Apparently chromium 6 has been released from the renovation works on the MR75 trains. The renovation works were first done in a workshop in Mechelen, but due to lack of capacity and time pressure a temporary workshop was also opened in Gentbrugge. Apparently the same safety rules were not applied there. At first the standard was not exceeded, but when the workshop was in use for a while, it appeared that the standard was exceeded more than once. That is, of course, terrifying news for the affected workers and their families. In the workshop in Mechelen many measures were taken for the safety of workers, which were not taken at the temporary workshop in Gentbrugge. Why was the procedure applicable in Mechelen not applied in Gentbrugge? How long have workers been exposed to chromium 6? Have the trade unions not responded to the fact that other safety standards were applied in two different workshops for the same work?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u88	In the two workshops there is not the same equipment. However, the workers in the central workshop of Gentbrugge were indeed protected by appropriate breathing protection during grinding and welding operations. From March 2014 there have been very sporadic works with very limited dust development. All persons who carried out the works were always protected. All employees of the central workshop Gentbrugge who carried out work on and in the carriages, who had to be on the carriages regularly for example for supervision and control and who carried out work in the main hall and between the carriages, were subjected to biomonitoring so that a picture of possible exposure to chromium compounds could be obtained. The first results are reassuring. Each workshop has its own committee for protection and prevention at work, in which the trade unions play their role locally.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u89	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. In particular, I remember your last sentence: each workshop has its own committee for protection and prevention in the workplace, in which the trade unions play their part. Apparently that role hasn't been the same in Gentbrugge as in Mechelen. Perhaps we should have a debate in the future on some of the railway workshops, which are clearly not really adapted to today's needs. Perhaps the discussion should be conducted in order to determine whether maintenance should be carried out in-house or can be outsourced.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u90	It's the trade unions who put the facts out. Thanks to the unions, I knew about the exposure and the facts got to the newspapers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u91	But they agreed to open the workshop anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u92	Absolutely not. They didn't agree at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u93	Mrs. Temmerman, you will put a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u94	But I asked the question, and there was an answer from the minister, and that is exactly the same question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u95	Madam President, Minister, once again I am bothering you with a question about the DIV office in Ghent. You know that both the FOD Mobility and the Flemish counterpart together with the city of Ghent are looking for a new location for the DIV antenna. The current location lies on the Fisheries, but that is a cycling and residential street and that location has never been met. Because I often pass there I know that there is a lot of nuisance there by stationed cars of people waiting or who do not find room elsewhere for their car. So we're all looking for a new location. I asked the Minister of the Interior a written question on all possible buildings of the federal government, i.e. via the Government of the Buildings, especially vacant buildings in Ghent, asking if there was a solution. On that list are the preliminary and concierge residence in the Port Arthurlaan. This building is an administrative building dating from 1966 with an area of 630 square meters. On the basis of the information provided by the Home Secretary, that property is no longer of any federal use. It'll be sold. Madam Secretary, that would be an ideal place for the DIV office. It is easily accessible by car, there is a lot of space around to park and there are no problems with the accessibility. Is a move to that vacant administrative building currently being examined or considered? Was there a need study made to make progress in that file? In case of positive answers to the previous questions, which I hope, what period can a move to that property be considered?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u96	Madam President, Minister, I will not repeat the introduction. I believe that the problem is well known to you. I have the following questions. What is the state of play in the search for a new location for the DIV office in Ghent? What steps have been taken in recent months? What are the potential locations for the new DIV office? A number of locations have been identified, but now it appears that they are not satisfactory. Has a choice been made yet? What next steps will you and your administration have to take to provide a concrete answer to the question of a new location for the DIV in Ghent? What's the timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the rental agreement of the DIV fisheries office was entered into by SBAT for a period of nine years and started on 1 June 2013. However, the contract may be terminated after three and six years, subject to a period of notice of six months. The FPS Mobility and Transport has committed themselves to finding a suitable location within the range of available federal government buildings. The location at Port Arthurlaan 14 in Ghent was prevented as a possible option for a possible transfer from the DIV office to the Fisheries in Ghent. In view of the plans of the Buildings Management, namely the sale of the building, it seems logical to me that no need study is being carried out. Consequently, a move to this location is no longer possible. Another option remains the building at Port Arthurlaan 12 in Ghent, which is used by the maritime services of the FPS Mobility and Transport. The Logistics department of the FPS Mobility and Transport will also organise a meeting with the Buildings Management to make new proposals for possible locations.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u98	Madam Secretary, your answer gives a little hope with regard to the Port Arthurlaan No. 12. I do not understand, however, if one really means it by looking for an alternative. I have been in the room, there are very few adaptation works to be done. It is true that it is on the list of buildings to be sold, but if a private government needs it, I assume that it can be removed from the list. So I really do not understand why the building located in Port Arthurlaan no. 14. It could go fast, there are few modifications needed to the property and it is easily accessible. Only an agreement must be found with the Government of the Buildings. I believe that the Government of the Buildings should be there for the administration and not the other way round. I would therefore ask you to step up and put the people out of their misery.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u99	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, but we are of course not getting along very well with it. We absolutely need to be able to land in the short term. I understand there's a lease. However, the nuisance in the fisheries sector is a huge problem. I would like to call again for this to be done and to look for a location where the DIV can offer its services to the Gentenaars in the longer term. You say the building is for sale but that the building is at no. 12 are among the possibilities. Well, then you have to work on that and that should not be put off. I therefore call once again on you to move towards a concrete solution in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u100	Madam Minister, the president of your party, in an interview with the newspaper Le Soir, more than eight days ago, spoke very laconically about the RER file, by answering this rather simple question, asked by a journalist: "Will the 800 million missing for the RER be at stake during the budgetary adjustment?" Mr Chastel's clear answer was this: "No! For this, we will find funding beyond the budget!" Given the large sums that are mentioned, with the supposed regional contributions (pre-financing announced), the answer of the president of the main French-speaking party of the majority has obviously, as far as I am concerned, raised more questions. So I am speaking to you, Madam Minister. I'm not just questioning a party president. I respect the institutions of my country. The parties, on the other hand, are not even included in the Constitution! Are the sources of funding, beyond the budget, defined? What can be meant by this statement? If it is not the budget, then it is not the budgetary adjustment! If this is not about budgetary adjustment, we are not in what is at stake with the monitoring committee, what Europe allows or does not allow and the figures that move every two hours. The budget seems evanescent... Mr. Reynders had mentioned that Infrabel could borrow. We're not going to come back on this debt. Is it a question of borrowing? Is this PPP (public-private partnership)? Is that Juncker's plan? But I think it is too late because it is the call for European funds. We have understood that it is not within the strict framework of budgetary adjustment. Mrs Wilmès replied to a question asked a short time ago, that you had not engaged any lines or requests. Can you confirm that you didn't ask Mrs. Wilmès? Did you submit a request for a budget line as part of this adjustment? Apparently not. The figure of 800 million was mentioned at the meeting of the intermodality platform. There are numbers for Infrabel and SNCB on lines 124 and 161. When combined, the net result is around 800 million. Minister, does this include the strict application of the famous 60/40 key? I don't think so. Indeed, by carefully looking at the documents to which I have legal access, which are the documents that allow us to locate the work to be done on the localizable parts in Wallonia – I am sure there are, I know even the amount that they cover – we find that there is not 800 million left to find, but that we are rather "beyond the billion", as Mr Chastel would say. In this context, taking into account the official figures and what can be assumed from the 60/40 application, to the extent that it remains annual – which I do not wish, but some of the smartest colleagues have mentioned this track – is there a request on the other side of the linguistic border and this amount? We could talk about other RSPs, but when I see the necessary numbers there, we're not quite at the same level of millions or billions. But I don't want to create any more difficulties here. As part of the finalization of the RER file, what is the total amount you will have to find, Madam Minister? How will you find it, if not in the context of budgetary management? How and with what timetable will this amount be used? Beyond the financial elements, it is well known that what will count for the completion of this dossier are the licensing issues, which will have to be resolved urgently: urban planning permits and those which could authorize the development of infrastructure in Infrabel, on the side of Linkebeek or elsewhere. There are permits that are not granted and there are permits that may quickly become obsolete because no construction will have started. On the other hand, there is also the question of monitoring to be undertaken in order to avoid what we have been through so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u101	Minister, I will not refer to the president of the MR who is not with us and therefore cannot be justified, but to the Prime Minister whom I asked about the funding of the MRR a couple of weeks ago. The Prime Minister said very clearly that he would find the money and that you would come with him, in April maximum, with a solution. So I asked the Prime Minister about the budget adjustment when it was already known that an adjustment would take place from the end of March, as usual. The answer of the first was less clear about the solution. How can we find a solution outside of a budget adjustment? Is that when we find the solutions? At the same time, the Prime Minister ensured that the RSP deadlines were met. To do this, the RER Fund must be provided very quickly in order to start all the work. In this context, I read a Belga dispatch about a distribution of staffing between SNCB and Infrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u102	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u103	You say no, but this distribution speaks of 60% for SNCB and 40% for Infrabel. The key is the same as for Flanders and Wallonia.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u104	It is in the article of the Echo of yesterday: "The provisional endowments of the royal decree".
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u105	This still gives small indications. Minister, there was a commitment from the Prime Minister in committee, and a commitment from you in plenary. The budgetary adjustment is there. I will repeat exactly the same questions, as they will be heard. Have you applied for the financing of the RER infrastructure works, including the four-track adjustment of lines 124 and 161? Did you make the request to your budget colleague? If so, what is the amount? If not, why was this request not made in light of both the Prime Minister's and yourself's commitments to seek early funding to maintain the RSP schedule as in previous years? Then you announced in committee that you might want to make the 60/40 multi-year key, which we support. Have you made any progress in this debate, which could prevent the 800 million from being transformed into billions or more? The majority rejected the introduction, in the resolution proposed and co-signed by Mr Cheron, of regular monitoring in Parliament of the work of the RER. Would you be in favour of monitoring this work?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u106	Madam President, Minister, I come back to you once again following my request to organize this meeting between the elected politicians of the Walloon Brabant, the services of Infrabel, the SNCB and your office so that we can finally have a clear vision of this issue of the ER so important to our province. The last time we had the pleasure to talk about it, you told me that you were going to organize a meeting with the mayors of the municipalities concerned on Wednesday and Thursday. Unfortunately, even within your own political formation, there were negative reactions: the mayors of La Hulpe and Rixensart cancelled the appointment, believing that it was not this kind of meeting they wanted. You wrote to me telling me that you intended to organize these meetings. But I didn't want that kind of meeting. Rather, I wanted a political meeting in order to receive clear explanations of the plans that will be proposed, the actual future of this RSP, the method of funding and the timetable. Madam Minister, could you give us a debriefing of the two meetings you had with the mayors concerned? Could you tell me if the date of the meeting that I have been asking for for more than a month is set? If not, when will she be? Or let me know you don't want to organize it! If I am not set once and for all on this matter, I will continue to question you every week. Finally, my last question relates to the budget. I will not repeat what my two distinguished colleagues have said, but I would nevertheless like to know what specific requests have been made in the context of the budgetary adjustment for the finalization of lines 161 and 124.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u107	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as I have already explained on several occasions, experts from my office continue to examine all possible funding avenues for the completion of the four-track implementation of lines 161 and 124. This project will be presented to the government in the coming weeks. All solutions are explored. I would therefore like to ensure the sustainability of the financing of the four-track implementation of these two lines, which was not ensured by the IPP 2013-2025, which relied on a hypothetical increase in endowments in the coming years. In order to prepare for this project, technical field visits were held last week, in the presence of the local authorities concerned, experts from SNCB and Infrabel, and my firm. The objective was to identify precisely all the work to be carried out in the short, medium, and longer term. I have also requested that fact sheets on the finalization of these two lines be submitted and reviewed by the Investment Unit's analysis committee. These fact sheets will soon be discussed with the Regions within the Investment Unit's strategic committee as part of the preparation of the next IPP. Finally, Mr Crusnière, concerning the date of the meeting between the experts of the SNCB, Infrabel, the cabinet and the political authorities of the Walloon Brabant, my cabinet is organizing, in collaboration with the governor of the Walloon Brabant province, a new meeting on the basis, in particular, of the new information collected during the visits to lines 124 and 161.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u108	Madam Minister, thank you for that answer, if that can be considered as an answer. You simply use the methodology that is yours in relation to the development of fact sheets. You could have added the composition of the data sheet, the meeting on site, etc. You did not even answer the question of why you did not table anything in the context of the budgetary adjustment, not a line that could have been justified on the multi-annual side of the operation. Clearly, there is nothing in the budget conclave. We are therefore, once again, reduced to assuming that in the future, from all tracks – you have said "all leads", so we imagine that there are many – we will be able to find only one. We will ask you questions regularly because we do not have the answers. In addition, you did not respond to the exact encryption. It is well known that this will not be 800 million because these are accompanied by the strict application of the 60/40 key. You mustn't be naive. There will be that, too. It's a reality. It is not desirable, but it is unfortunately obvious. Colleagues, I therefore raise a motion in which I ask the government, since it does not do so, to clarify as soon as possible the sources of funding for the RSP Fund and to take into account the investigation to be carried out by the Court of Auditors on the audit. I repeat here a sentence which has been removed from my text of resolution: 'This is intended to provide the RER Fund with the necessary budgetary resources, in consultation with the three regions, for the complete completion of all the projects'. My last request to the government in this motion is to establish a permanent monitoring of the monitoring of permits to be required – I insist on this issue of permits – and investments in construction sites that are linked to the finalization of the RSP. I bring this motion in the hands of the Chair, which is co-signed by my colleague Van Hecke.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u109	Madam Minister, I must say that we remain hungry. There is still a budgetary conclave. We all know it's difficult. But we know that a budget is choices. Choices that a government must collectively make. I thought that when a Prime Minister guaranteed in Parliament the continuation of the ER, those choices would be made, these words would be followed by deeds. That is, there is a clear demand, already for 2016, in this budgetary conclave. That is not the case, it is a shame, because when you come in a few weeks, the budget conclave will be completed, in any case according to the announced timetable. My colleague Stéphane Crusnière and I have tabled a motion whereby we ask the government, among other things, to monitor both the SNCB and Parliament; that is the substance of this motion. We also call for the government to commit itself to a precise timetable for the completion of the entire infrastructure work as originally provided for in the RER Convention of 4 April 2003, commit itself to financing the RER Fund as soon as the next budgetary adjustments are made in order to be able to carry out the above-mentioned work, commit itself to setting up a bimonthly monitoring concerning, inter alia, the progress of the work and the evolution of the RER Fund. This monitoring will be carried out jointly by the SNCB RER Cell, Infrabel and the Mobility FPS, who will report to Parliament every two months. Madam Chair, that is the substance of the motion that I am presenting to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u110	Minister, I am also concerned when I hear your answer. This roadshow that your firm did last week to see if there was still work to be done and to draw up sheets worries me, because if we're only there, I don't know if my great-grandchildren will ever see the RER! Again, we are missing the deadline for budgetary adjustment. If we cannot ask for additional resources, I do not see a clear timetable for this. With regard to the meeting, I look forward to it and look forward to it. I hope that it will not be postponed again, otherwise we would still have to question you. To clarify matters, it would be interesting if we could hold this meeting as soon as possible with a timetable and funding channels. The sooner this meeting takes place, the easier it will be for everyone!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u111	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Messrs. Marcel Cheron and Stefaan Van Hecke and read as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries by Mr Marcel Cheron and Mrs Karine Lalieux and the response of the Minister for Mobility, responsible for Belgocontrol and the Belgian National Railway Company, asks the government - to clarify as soon as possible the sources of funding for the RER Fund; - to take account of the inquiry carried out by the Court of Auditors in the decisions to be taken in order to provide the RER Fund with the necessary budgetary resources, in coordination with the three Regions, for the complete completion of all the projects related to the RER dossier; - to establish a permanent monitoring of the monitoring of permits to be required and investments in construction sites linked to the completion of the RER." A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Marcel Cheron and Mr Stefaan Van Hecke and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interviews between Mr Marcel Cheron and Mrs Karine Lalieux and the reply of the Minister for Mobility, responsible for Belgocontrol and the National Society of the Belgian Railways, calls on the Government - clarify the sources of financing of the GEN Fund as soon as possible, - take account of the Court of Auditors' examination of the decisions to be taken with a view to serving the GEN Fund, in conjunction with the three regions, with the budgetary resources necessary for the final completion of all the yards in connection with the GEN dossier; - to monitor on a permanent basis the follow-up to the licences to be recovered and the investments in the yards related to the completion of the GEN." A second motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Karine Lalieux and Mr. Stéphane Crusnière and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries by Mr Marcel Cheron and Mrs Karine Lalieux and the response of the Minister for Mobility, responsible for Belgocontrol and the Belgian National Railway Company, asks the government - to commit to a precise timetable for the completion of the entire infrastructure work as originally provided for in the RER Convention of 4 April 2003, including the four-tracking of lines 161 and 124; - undertake to finance the RER Fund as soon as the next budgetary adjustment is made in order to be able to carry out the above-mentioned work; - to set up a bimonthly monitoring of, inter alia, the progress of work and the evolution of the RER Fund. This monitoring will be carried out jointly by the SNCB RER Cell, Infrabel and the Mobility FPS; - that the SNCB RER cell, Infrabel and the Mobility SPF report to Parliament every two months." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Karine Lalieux and Mr Stéphane Crusnière and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interviews between Mr Marcel Cheron and Mrs Karine Lalieux and the reply of the Minister for Mobility, responsible for Belgocontrol and the National Society of the Belgian Railways, calls on the Government - commit themselves to a precise timetable for the execution of all the infrastructure as originally laid down in the GEN Agreement of 4 April 2003, including the four tracks of lines 161 and 124; - undertake to finance the GEN-Fund at the time of the next budgetary adjustment in order to enable the execution of the above-mentioned works, - have the progress of the works and the evolution of the GEN Fund monitored jointly on a bimonthly basis by the GEN cell of SNCB, Infrabel and the FPS Mobility and Transport; - to have the GEN cell of SNCB, Infrabel and the FPS Mobility and Transport report to Parliament on a bimonthly basis." A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Inez De Coninck and by Messrs. Benoît Piedboeuf and Veli Yüksel. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Inez De Coninck and Mr Benoît Piedboeuf and Mr Veli Yüksel. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. We are going to vote on these motions in plenary next week. But I can tell you that we will be debating and voting in tomorrow's plenary on the resolution requesting an audit at the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u112	Madam Chair, I have summarized the three motions. On behalf of the majority and on behalf of President Chastel, I tabled a simple motion because we trust the government and the minister and believe in the solution that will come.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u113	Minister, throughout our country's railway system, the issue of the North-Midi junction is fundamental. Today, there is a limitation on the number of trains to be able to cross this junction. Mr Cornu systematically repeats during each visit to Parliament that the ATO system, in conjunction with CBTC technology, is a prospect for the future. It goes so far as to say that the ATO system could increase the passage of trains within the North-Midi junction by 25%. In recent years, however, a number of proposals have emerged on the enlargement of the North-Midi junction, on the assumption of a tunnel under the tunnel... It is both politically and financially impossible and unmanageable. This prospect, announced by Mr Cornu, led us to a technology to solve enormous problems. We know how much, thanks to our star system, the North-Midi junction is an essential element. Last Friday, L'Echo announced the impossibility of "implementing CBTC or ATO technology in the Nord-Midi junction, because its use presupposes homogeneity of rolling stock and an identical composition of trains", which is not the case today, it must be noted. In a joint communiqué, Infrabel and SNCB confirmed that studies of different technologies to increase capacity are under way, but both companies stated that "no conclusions can be drawn at this time". We know very well, I repeat, given the improbability of a vast enlargement project or of a vertical doubling of the North-Midi junction, the search for alternatives for its optimisation is necessary if we are to develop the rail. Minister, these various communications prompt me to ask you a number of questions. What is the status of the respective studies of SNCB and Infrabel on ATO and CBTC? When will we be able to know the results? Are the information revealed in L'Echo well founded? Are these studies carried out in parallel without consultation or have they been commissioned in good collaboration between the two companies? That is what I wanted to ask you about this very important part of our rail offer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u114	Mr Cheron, thank you for your question, which addresses an essential point for the future of rail development in our country. Studies of different technologies to increase capacity are under way, as I have announced. No conclusions can be drawn at this time, given the innovative and complex nature of the case. It is not yet possible to give a date when the results will be available. The information revealed in L'Echo is premature, given the state of the studies. No conclusions can be drawn at this time. Infrabel and SNCB are working hand in hand to identify solutions to increase the capacity of the railway system, particularly at the Nord-Midi junction, with a view to providing users with an improved service without any compromise for safety. I also reassure you that the large infrastructure works that cost exorbitant amounts are completely abandoned. There are three areas of reflection, namely the introduction of more efficient traffic management, the optimisation of the infrastructure and the use of an ATO device on board rolling stock.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u115	Madam Minister, I welcome your answer because I think that if what was revealed by L'Echo were to prove correct, it would be a real tragedy for the performance of our rail system. There is a political, budgetary, urbanistic impossibility of widening the junction - I am convinced that Mrs Lalieux would go up to the barricades in the face of such projects. We are therefore well aware that it would be very bad news that the technology tells us that the ATO project is impossible. I am also pleased that Infrabel and SNCB are working together. I weigh my words. It is a strategic interest to work together. If one day we have the opportunity, we will better examine ATO performance in connection with ETCS and thus safety. It is not a question of bracing safety, but of using the best elements of technology to allow what is possible, for example for cars in some time. It should also be allowed for trains and make better use of this North-Midi junction. Comparisons with other countries show that there are, of course, opportunities, provided that the technology is at the point of development, allowing for the safety and fluidity of traffic. We could one day try to get Alstom engineers who manage this ATO file to get technical explanations to understand how important it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u116	Madam Minister, my question concerns the postponement of the Leuven Straight ahead as a result of the trade union actions at Belgocontrol. A few days ago it appeared that Belgocontrol's social conflict had additional consequences. By 1 April, Leuven's modified flight route should have been a fact, but we already know that this will be delayed for at least a month because of the social conflict. The air traffic controllers involved in the training for the new flight route have ceased. Some even speak of a deliberate boycott. I wouldn't go that far. The obstructors of Leuven Straight through are in any case the victims of these actions. Moreover, failure to comply with that judgment on Leuven Rechtdoor may also have financial consequences. Indeed, there are periodic penalty payments of EUR 50 000 for the federal government per day that it does not introduce the route as agreed. Madam Secretary, I therefore have the following questions to ask you. Can you explain the delay of the route Leuven Straight ahead? How much delay is the new flight route due to these trade union actions? Is the government now risking having to pay the penalty payments of EUR 50 000 per deferred day?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u117	Despite the various conciliation meetings between the board of Belgocontrol and the representatives of the syndicated organizations, the Belgocontrol syndicates started collective actions since 15 February. In the meantime, you will have heard that these actions have just been suspended and that the parties are again sitting around the negotiating table. As a result of these protests, the organisation of Belgocontrol is currently disturbed and the cessation of the Leuven straight through the end of March 2016 will not be possible. The implementation of a new route without the training being fully followed brings with it major safety risks. The training of the controllers is also required before the Leuven West flight route is put into operation. I therefore regret that the protests are delaying this process. Today it is impossible to set a precise date for the cessation of the Leuven straight ahead. In this respect, it should be noted that the case was brought before the Court of First Instance in Brussels on 16 November 2015 and that a decision was expected by the end of 2015. However, because of the difficulty of the dossier, the President postponed the decision until a later date, which was not specified. Until now, the cabinet has not been served with that judgment. Consequently, the date on which the infringement takes effect or the amount of the periodic penalty payment has not yet been determined.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u118	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I take note of the fact that you will not be able to stop the route at the end of March, which we could already read in the press. As far as the question of the possible consequences for the government is concerned, it is not yet certain, but the government is in any case running a huge risk of having to pay that penalty payment. I therefore call for the law on air transport to be implemented as set out in the government agreement. In any case, there must be a law governing the procedures for the routes. In this way we can finally stop the chaos of these routes, in the interests of economic aspects and the viability of the region. We must finally have a legal framework so that action groups or municipalities can no longer just go to court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u119	Madam Minister, in 2015, apparently 4.2 million passengers took the train to Brussels Airport, an increase of 7.2 % compared to 2014. That is a good thing. The Diabolo connection, the access to the airport, was financed by a PPS with Northern Diabolo, including a surcharge on the train tickets. In addition to the fixed fee of EUR 9 million, there appear to be two variable components, in particular the tariff reception and passenger domestic traffic and an amount per passenger using the railway infrastructure to the airport. I checked the supplement myself. At present, this amounts to EUR 5.14 regardless of the distance travelled. I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. How many train passengers to the airport carried SNCB in the years 2011, 2012 and 2013? How many passengers will SNCB have to transport to the airport every year in order to reach the PPP target of Northern Diabolo? Will additional trains be deployed in the 2017 transport plan? What is the proceeds of the Diabolo supplement since its introduction? Is the full amount of the supplement to the Northern Diabolo group or is it also financing other needs? If there is sufficient income, as the contract determines, will the supplement be reduced if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u120	Mr Geerts, there were 3.4 million train passengers in 2011 and 3.5 million in 2012 and 2013. For the year 2015, the contract provided a total of 5.2 million passengers. A further increase in the number of train passengers to and from the airport is expected from the start of the Schuman-Josaphat tunnel scheduled for April 2016. It is still premature to reply because the transport plan is still in full preparation. In any event, from April 2016 and the opening of the Schuman-Josaphat tunnel, Charleroi and Namur will also have a direct connection to the airport on working days. The Diabolo bonus has already raised €64.3 million since its introduction until 2015. The full amount goes to Northern Diabolo. This surcharge shall continue to apply for the full duration of the concession, in particular until 2047. This supplement is intended not only to reimburse the initial investment costs, but also the financing and maintenance costs throughout the period of the concession, insurance, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u121	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for her reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u122	Madam President, Minister, the arrival of the ER also raises the question of the mobility around the stations that will be served by these trains in the future. In 2003, under the agreement, an investment of 150 million was planned to develop 24 new docks for buses in the 9 stations covered by the RER. Can you tell me, Madam Minister, whether the 150 million originally planned for this construction will actually be used for this purpose and provide me with information on the progress of the work? I'll tell you more about my commune, Wavre. Currently, only one bus dock is planned in front of the Wavre train station, which causes a real mess during school outings and during the hours of departure and return of commuters. With the RER and the implementation of the 161 Brussels-Ottignies line, it is hoped that the number of Wavrians choosing to use the train will increase, which will further complicate access to the Wavre station. The plan to create the bus station on the current parking lot of rue du Moulin in Vent has long been laid down. In order for this project to materialize, SNCB must sell to the Société régionale Wallonne du Transport (SRWT) a parcel of land along the tracks. Can you tell me at what stage this request is? Has SNCB already considered SRWT's application?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u123	Dear colleague, by letter dated 1 February 2016, SNCB confirmed to the SRWT its agreement on the sale of the land necessary for the construction of the SRWT bus station, with the latter taking over 80 parking spaces reserved for its customers. These spaces must be within a perimeter equivalent to the current parking lot. For your information, I will give you a copy of the letter from SNCB. You were talking about the parking lot at the Moulin à Vent. I don't know if it's about the Mesange parking lot. Is it the same?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u124	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u125	I don't know the place. About the parking lot, I don't have any other information.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u126	What's the status of the docks in the Walloon Brabant?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u127	That must be the subject of another question. I can't answer you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u128	It was in my question too, but I will come back with this subject. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u129	Madam Secretary, I have just spoken to a number of train drivers. They have told me a few things which require me to ask again here about the recommendations of the Buizingen Committee to SNCB, which I do not think have yet been implemented. One of these recommendations was that SNCB should move from a punishing organisation to an organisational and learning organisation. Well, if, for example, a signal is not visible and can cause major inconvenience, the train driver must immediately report it to traffic control and fill out the E360 form with no less than 50 possibilities. But that'll take 15 minutes. Most train drivers do not do so, all the more so because they are wiped out the cloak and get reprisals on top if they fill it out wrong. Train drivers act like they didn't see anything, even if something is going on. Of course, that has an impact on the future. Does the NBMS know that the form is complex and has an evaluation been carried out? What about the reports, anyway? Is it understood that there is probably a shortage of reports due to the complexity of the form? As far as the new regulation is concerned, I have seen the booklet HLT with many instructions. Employees get that on Friday night and have to master it Tuesday morning. We had asked for this to be distributed well in advance and not too often a year. How come that recommendation has still not been implemented? As far as the recommendation on the learning organisation is concerned, we will soon have a follow-up committee again which will deal specifically with traffic accidents. However, I would ask that attention be paid to such things, because their impact is too great.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u130	The notification by a train driver of an anomaly to the infrastructure shall be recorded in both SNCB's databases and the infrastructure manager's databases. Each week, the infrastructure manager gives feedback to SNCB by electronic means, indicating the measures taken. These data are compared and verified with the SNCB database. Where appropriate, train drivers shall be informed by SMS of the follow-up given by the infrastructure manager to the notifications. The E360 forms were put into service on 15 June 2014. This document combines the two previous forms and therefore simplifies them. In the meantime, the train drivers are familiar with this. An evaluation is under way on the grouping of certain headings and the clarification of the reporting of certain irregularities. Major efforts are being made in the field of train driver training. Important changes to the regulations are accompanied by additional training. Driving a train is a safety function in which the new matter must always be known. A continuous effort is indeed expected from the train drivers. If they still have questions besides the planned training courses, they can always contact their framework. As far as Recommendation 2.25 is concerned, SNCB has planned to focus on a safety culture among its staff, both in initial training and in continuing training and during the implementation of the service. With regard to Recommendation 2.35, SNCB first submits amendments to the regulations to a staff of its staff before publishing them. That team first validates the lyrics on their readability and interpretation.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u131	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I understand that the scheme comes from SNCB. The train drivers I have spoken to agree that a great deal of effort has been made in terms of training, but we must now be careful that the pendulum does not go to the other side and that the punishment for non-compliance with a number of elements should not be considered. For example, if you have exit interviews and ask why people switch to another operator, that is one of the reasons. I think this should continue. We need to get rid of the punitive culture that prevailed in that company and still prevails at certain times; the summit must follow that phenomenon better.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u132	Madam Minister, my question is in the context of the problem or the theme of training on signal collisions. You yourself raised the issue yourself following the opening of the Schuman-Josaphat tunnel on 9 April 2016. Apparently, a number of test runs have been carried out in that tunnel, which showed that of the eight signals, six signals are not clearly visible. They're either too low or placed in the overhead lines and the like. As a result, the maximum speed that could be driven has been reduced by Infrabel from 60 km per hour to 30 km per hour on a reverse track. We have to do it. [[.]] The tunnel is not yet open, but it is already decided today that the speed will have to be reduced, because safety is not assured because the signals are not visible because they are not correctly placed. I have the following specific questions. Is my analysis correct that there are eight signals, but that there are six signals wrong? How many reports of the ill-visible and poorly-placed signals have been received at the moment when the tunnel had not yet been used, particularly during the test journeys? Have all these signals been placed in regulation? I ask that question because the speed has to be reduced already. I have already touched on the problems with the implementation rules and the notifications in my previous question. Is delaying the commercial entry into service of the tunnel due to the fact that Infrabel had to reduce the maximum speed for the time being? On the other hand, does the cause lie only in the disaster exercise that has not been able to take place? How are we going to put such signals in practice? Does this happen to people who have field experience or is the placement determined solely by Infrabel engineers? I refer to Britain, a country which has always acted badly in the field of safety, but which has made a catching-up movement due to the many accidents. There one goes effectively with the experience experts in the field. Is that what happened here, or isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u133	There are 9 signals in the Schuman tunnel. The problems reported by SNCB and DVIS were addressed by adapting the infrastructure. No comments were received since then. According to Infrabel, all signals are placed in the Schuman Tunnel. The comments were taken into account in order to make the signals as visible as possible. On this basis, the position of two signals was improved. The train driver has two possibilities to report an anomaly to the infrastructure. Firstly, he can make an entry on his worksheet for non-urgent reports. Secondly, he can report them directly to Traffic Control for urgent cases. In both cases, feedback is given to the railway undertakings on the measures taken by Infrabel. Through the hierarchy of the drivers, signals with poor visibility can also be discussed in the working group on Sein collisions. The signaling device was ready for use on 15 November 2015. The tunnel was designed from the start for a speed of 60 kilometers per hour. There is therefore no reduction in the maximum speed. On this track the speed has been reduced to 30 kilometers per hour to allow the signals to be placed in a regulated position. If the effective movement of a signal is a good solution, its implementation will be included in the planning of larger infrastructure work. I will give you a table with an overview of the signals that were effectively moved on this basis. The lack of visibility is usually raised as a result of a signal collision in which the train driver questions good visibility. The reasons for the signal collisions are dealt with in the working group on Sein collisions. Infrabel, the railway undertakings and the DVIS participate in this working group, which meets five times a year. In the event of modifications to the signalling device, the signalling plans shall be submitted to the railway undertakings for consultation in advance. Both a freight operator and a passenger operator are involved in the process and thus have the opportunity to give advice. Infrabel also organises test runs for the introduction of a new line and then the train drivers can report problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u134	Madam Secretary, I know that this is a very technical matter. I will look into your answer and, if necessary, ask additional questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u135	Minister, many cyclists in our country are weak road users. De facto, special improvements to road installations and a number of provisions of the Highway Code have been made to protect this category of road users. However, they are also required to comply with a series of specific rules, including the provision of a bell, proper brakes, white or yellow light at the front and red light at the rear. On the other hand, the wearing of a self-reflecting chasuble and the wearing of a helmet are not, at present, mandatory in our country. However, many studies have found that wearing the helmet would significantly limit the severity of injuries to cyclists in the event of an accident, such as head injuries, but, above all, limit the number of fatalities on the road. Of course, Belgian statistics are relatively stable on fatal accidents, but unfortunately every death is too much. You will agree, there is no zero risk, but we must try to do as much as possible. Given the indisputable advantages of wearing a helmet for the safety of cyclists, how do you look at the issue of the mandatory wearing of helmets for all cyclists? Is there any reflection within the government on the general obligation to wear helmets for cyclists? If this is not the case, what are the arguments against the general requirement to wear helmets? Finally, what measures do they take to improve the safety of cyclists, as part of the overall reflection on the reform of the Road Traffic Code?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u136	Colleagues, the obligation to wear helmets has been a controversial measure for years, because the unquestionable safety benefits you mention can be discussed. I refer, among other things, to the European Commission's working document of 20 July 2010 which was used for the adoption of the road safety policy guidelines 2011-2020, which sums up the issue well. To repeat only a few arguments in debate, the protection offered by the helmet would often be overestimated. Headphones shall be approved according to European standard EN1078 and their performance shall be measured only for impacts at speeds not exceeding 20 km/h. Thus, the helmet would provide protection only in the event of light shocks and would not have any real impact on more severe shocks that are precisely the cause of serious or fatal injuries. Analysis of the severity of injuries to road victims, conducted by the IBSR in 2014, also revealed that cyclists are no more exposed to serious head injuries than pedestrians or even motorists. Internal brain injuries and skull fractures account for 29% of serious injuries in these three categories of users. Cyclises are primarily exposed to fractures of the upper and lower limbs. Several studies have also shown a substantial decrease in the number of cyclists in countries that have decided to impose helmets. However, there would be a correlation between the number of cyclists and the level of road safety they enjoy. Moreover, it is undeniable that cycling is a real alternative to many of the mobility issues we are currently facing, such as road congestion, air pollution or physical inactivity and its consequences in terms of public health. It is up to me to make an arbitration which takes these various elements into account, in consultation with the associations concerned. I can, in any case, encourage the wearing of the helmet and not make it mandatory. To be complete, I intend to provide an exception for pedalecs speed drivers because they will benefit from the assistance of an electric motor allowing them to reach the speed of 45 km/hour. But this category of electric bicycles must, in fact, be assimilated to a moped. I announced in the General States of Road Safety on 15 December that the Road Traffic Code would be revised in order to incorporate the clearest rules, but also to better take account of weak users. The rules on different types of highways will also be reviewed. The aim is to make it easier for the road manager to extract cyclists from motorized traffic, where possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u137	Minister, I take note of your answers. It is important to be attentive to evolution. Indeed, there are more and more cyclists, since the alternative bike is increasingly used, even in urban areas, thanks to electric bicycles. You mentioned the matter. Therefore, we will continue to be attentive to the development of this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u138	Madam President, Minister, I thought that this question had been withdrawn or converted into a written question last week, but my colleague tells me that this was not the case. I don't know at all. Madam Secretary, if you have the answer, I would like to turn the question into a written question. Apparently, I haven't received the answer yet. I thought I turned my question into a written question last week. If I can get the answer, this is good for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u139	Mr Geerts, you may now ask your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u140	Madam Minister, my question concerns the increase in capacity for the North-South link. However, I must be careful not to get into the water of Mr Cheron's question. I thought my question would be added to his. Based on what simulation could the capacity be increased by 25%? Experts tell me that this can be done for subway but not for trains that need a locomotive or motorset. What benchmark was made? ETCS2 should be applicable. Is there a consensus between Infrabel and SNCB on this? Is there any conclusion on the freezing of the lane fee? What budgets are needed?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u141	Madam President, Mr Geerts, I understand that you are impatient about the conclusion of a new management contract, as the current contract was concluded for the period 2008-2012. When I took up office 16 months ago, the management contract should have been renewed for two years. Work on the new management contract is progressing well. With regard to the multi-annual investment plan, I have set up an investment cell in which the Regions are also represented. A first meeting of the Strategic Committee of the Investment Cell took place on 22 February, but the Analysis Committee met several times. ATO, automatic train operation, is a system that guides the train automatically and safely from one station to another. The automatic control is based on an optimal speed profile that ensures and complies with arrival and departure times, while reducing energy consumption to the minimum. With this system, the transport capacity can be increased without the existing infrastructure having to be adapted because the intervals between the trains are shorter. It also makes it possible to reduce operating costs due to a significant reduction in energy consumption. A study is currently under way to determine the capacity increase of the North-South link with such technology. The results of this study will be available before the end of this year. I would also like to refer to the example of the new rail link Crossrail Link in London, where an increase in capacity of 40% was achieved thanks to the implementation of automatic train control.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u142	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. My first remark concerns management contracts. Those are indeed over in 2012. Three parties within the then government have told the Minister that he should no longer renew those management contracts, because this would be for another government. Those designs stayed in the closet. Those parties are still in the federal government today, others aren't. Secondly, as far as ATO is concerned, I think that this can only be done on the basis of metro trains, as is the case in London.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-03-16-54-commissie-ic370x.u143	The question-and-answer session is over. Thank you to the Minister and her collaborators. We've made good progress. There are not many questions that have been postponed.
