ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-07-54-commissie-ic485x.u1	Minister, I should like to inform you that Mrs Rita Gantois is deferring her question No 13172. So I have two questions left.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-07-54-commissie-ic485x.u2	Madam President, before I address them, I will allow myself to clarify the situation concerning the order of business. At the Conference of Presidents, I was questioned that Mrs De Block would not have responded to the request to convene the committee. The information that came to me from the firm is different.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-07-54-commissie-ic485x.u3	It was this week.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-07-54-commissie-ic485x.u4	What I was told at the Conference of Presidents was that Mrs De Block would not have agreed to come this week. That's not what I was told about Mrs De Block. There, I was told that an agenda had been agreed with three sessions in September. In addition, I observe that my colleague is present very diligently in Parliament and answers dozens of questions. I therefore did not understand this request very well. Maybe you can give me some clarification. On the other hand, I replied that I was available. You know how much I am present in Parliament, one of the most diligent. I am asked for three questions, one of which disappears. This is totally contrary to the habits of our commissions. Is it your intention, in the future, to convene the commission as soon as there are one or two questions or have you called it because it was your questions or preparation? Tell me what it is because it really comes out of the usual usages and conviviality! I'm here. If you ask me to come tomorrow, I will be there, as I have been for two years. No one in any commission does that! In addition, one of the two people who had to question me is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-07-54-commissie-ic485x.u5	That's what we're finding out today! I explained this to you and your collaborator. Parliament decided to resume its work on 1 September. Before the holidays, it had been said in the Conference of Presidents that ministers had to be at the disposal of the committees which planned meetings from the first week of September and that the only arguments not to come were the councils of Belgian, interministerial, European ministers, etc. Since many questions were addressed to Ms. De Block, we contacted the minister's office to arrange the meetings. The cabinet members were not present at that time. We were told that it was not possible for the minister to come in the first two weeks of September. With a view to the Conference of Presidents, I informed my group leader that we were unable to obtain the presence of Mrs De Block when a good 40 questions had already been tabled. As for you, we had not contacted you because only two questions were on the agenda. As a result, I was informed that you had said during the Conference of Presidents that you had been available but had not been contacted. Hence the approach we have taken towards you. Then, on September 1st, we agreed to an appointment with Mrs De Block. She may not be present until 20 September. On that date, unfortunately, we will find ourselves with a hundred questions. I would add that I thought the Conference of Presidents was taking place today at 12 noon. That is why we proposed this meeting at 11.30 a.m. The intention was therefore not at all to meet committees unnecessarily. In addition, other questions could have been raised in the meantime. We simply wanted Parliament to meet in the first week of September. It must be recognized that this is something that is difficult to do and to respect, not only in this committee but also in others.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-07-54-commissie-ic485x.u6	I absolutely disagree. Ministers are available. Many of them are on committee this week. Mrs. De Block is one of the busiest. Its presence on this commission is scheduled for 20 and 27 September and 4 October. There's no problem. You have tried to create a problem, including by inviting me to come on two questions, which are of course very important, but two questions! Two parliamentarians had to question me, one of whom was absent. It's his right, I respect him. Everyone has their own organization. We must not try to make a speech that "the ministers did not want to come". That's not true. We need to see the agenda of this week's parliament. Look at him.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-07-54-commissie-ic485x.u7	The agenda of this week's parliament was to be organised. It was to be arranged for questions as early as the first week of September.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-07-54-commissie-ic485x.u8	Don't try to make an incident. There aren't any.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-07-54-commissie-ic485x.u9	To meet the committee in the first week of September, Mrs De Block was not available. I'm not gonna sue him for intent.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-07-54-commissie-ic485x.u10	I'm going to question her, because Mrs De Block is still available for Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-07-54-commissie-ic485x.u11	She's not always available. It is often available.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-07-54-commissie-ic485x.u12	Look at the number of hours, legitimately and with pleasure, she spent in parliament. It's really a bad trial.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-07-54-commissie-ic485x.u13	She wasn't. She told us not to be available this week and next week. And so, we just relayed that fact. We do not relay an intention, we relay a fact. She wasn't available this week. At the Conference of Presidents, you said, "I am available and I have not been asked."
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-07-54-commissie-ic485x.u14	If necessary, of course, depending on the questions. I would even like to come when there are no questions, Madam President. But this is out of the ordinary, in addition to the President's questions. I come with pleasure, that there is no ambiguity at this level. But to say that ministers are not available... I refer to the agenda of the House. You'll see all the ministers that are available. Mrs De Block already has three dates, I have just mentioned, two at the end of September and one at the beginning of October. So I'm saying it so that it's clear: don't go and create an incident on Ecolo's side in an attempt to make it look like the government...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-07-54-commissie-ic485x.u15	But where's the incident, Mr. Borsus? Where's the incident?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-07-54-commissie-ic485x.u16	The incident is that you just said that ministers are not available. That's not true.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-07-54-commissie-ic485x.u17	But you're the one who lends me that intention. I have drawn up a committee agenda with the limits I have just outlined. I don't create an incident around that. There was, between the members of the Conference of Presidents, whether or not there were commitments made before the holidays. It is on the basis of this that the agenda was organised. It is true that I would have liked Minister De Block to be able to come in early September, given the large number of questions scheduled for 20 September. The intention was to resume the work of the parliament on 1 September in order to be in touch with the current political situation, which is not waiting for the end of September. But I am very pleased that Minister De Block comes three weeks in a row. We must try to organise a question-and-answer session with Mrs De Block every week, otherwise we will not get away with it. I'm very glad you came today, although there are only two questions. Originally, there was Mrs Gantois's question and mine, and I added a second. I am very happy, I do not create an incident in relation to that. I didn't make a political incident. I didn't try to draw attention to that. This is our internal organisation, which we are discussing in the Conference of Presidents. If you don't mind, we can move on to both questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-07-54-commissie-ic485x.u18	The first question concerns the health regulations relating to food purchasing groups and the AFSCA circular dated November 2015 on the sale of food from the producer to the consumer, with the intervention of a third party for the organisation of the delivery. In this circular, the Agency specifies the conditions and rules relating to the handling, transport and management of food removal points. This circular raises serious concerns among both citizens and associations that have been mobilizing for many years to promote the short circuit, fight against junk food, which gather to buy directly from small local producers and thereby relocate the agricultural economy. In considering this circular in relation to the concerns of the actors on the ground, it appears that certain elements may indeed appear unclear and lead to arbitrariness. There are concerns about administrative procedures and over-burdened obligations, and therefore obstacles for these food-procurement organizations. Have there been any problems, or concerns about poisoning or fresh foods, that justify this mobilization and approach of the FASFA? If so, it would be interesting to know what problems had been encountered. If, on the other hand, this is only an early hypothesis, it may be interesting not to mobilize forces from AFSCA in an area that is not dangerous but rather to work in a concerted manner. Are there any plans for consultations with the actors in the field, the food purchasing groups? It would be important to have certain guarantees regarding such consultation. The recommendations of the PSAB and the practices put in place need to be relevant. You may be able to give us guarantees about the protection of the private home and the fact that the AFSCA will not land at the home of two who agree to be a deposit point. Can you also provide assurances that non-profit groups or de facto associations with a limited number of producers and consumers will be excluded from the scope of this circular? In any case, they will not have to report their activities to the AFSCA and keep family-type management as a good father. What are the risks to a collective that intervenes as a third party in the organization of food deliveries and that does not register with AFSCA?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-07-54-commissie-ic485x.u19	Madam President, buying groups, as such, are in principle not considered to be active operators in the food chain and as such are not known to AFSCA. They therefore do not fall under its jurisdiction and cannot be subject to its controls. The circular referred to was obviously the subject of consultation with the parties concerned. I have a list of dates of meetings and interlocutors. The purpose of this circular is simply to define the criteria according to which, in certain specific cases, third parties who intervene between the producer and the consumer in the short circuit must report their activity to the AFSCA. In the vast majority of cases, there is no intervention, action, repackaging, processing, repackaging or other similar action, which takes place between the producer and the consumer. In this case, there is absolutely nothing to do. Citizens' groups, non-profit organisations and all other initiatives of the same nature can therefore be fully implemented. The situation remains where there is intervention between the producer and the consumer. I have just identified a few examples of the nature of the intervention. We repackage, we transform, we divide, we make portions, etc. In these specific cases, they are operators subject to the registration requirements at Afsca. These requirements are very simple. For example, they can be made online. The other third parties, the first ones I mentioned, simply gather, market, make baskets etc. It's a reality I know very well. I had the opportunity to visit them and meet with the interlocutors. The circular merely makes a number of recommendations to them concerning action, consumer protection and hygiene rules in general. As this principle is expressed, it is obvious that the boundary between the first group and the second group remains to be seen. The purpose of the circular was precisely to determine how one could be located, given the nature of the activity, since, as you noted, this activity may be of a very diverse nature, identity and organization. As part of this definition, the Agency issued this circular, which was already published in November last year. To my knowledge, up to this point, this circular has not posed any known difficulty for Afsca. If there were to be any difficulty, any definition that would seem inappropriate, any incomprehension, I stand at the immediate disposal of local purchasing groups. Afsca is available immediately. In addition, there is an independent mediation service at the AFSCA. If someone prefers to share their problem with this interlocutor, or has the feeling that a difficulty will arise, they can still express it. At this stage, this is not the case. So I want to be quite reassuring, and I am very formally reassuring. As you know, Madam President, I am very strongly engaged with local producers, alongside the transformation of proximity, along with everything that makes the value of our products, which are also the result of local, citizen, agricultural initiatives that need to be supported. I would therefore like to point out that these groups of local purchases are not orphaned by the slightest attention, are not in danger, are not threatened in any way or in any way. If that feeling exists, my door is open at any time, the door of the AFSCA as well. We must not hesitate to see each other in such a way as to dispel, to clarify things. If there are concerns about the circular, it will be adapted immediately if necessary. Contacts had taken place, notably on 27 April 2016, with the network of responsible consumers, the GASAP network. I thought all those contacts had cleared up any doubt. When I read the communication and the dialogue with the press that I read this morning, I observe that there would have been only one check. One. A first version of the circular already existed in early 2015. Then it was adapted in November. It's September 2016. If I believe the article I have before me, then only one control has been exercised. Moreover, it did not detect any negative consequences. So not only are the decision and the intention of the minister very 'pro' decisions, very attentive, very concerned about the local citizen valorizations of the productions, but in addition, we have set up a'small producers' unit at the AFSCA. Contacts have also taken place, as I have just pointed out. Services, including mediation, are available if problems arise. Notwithstanding my very clear message, if there were any difficulties, I am ready at any time to organize the necessary meetings with the partners concerned. So unless you have information that would not have come back to me, which is still possible, I do not see an earthquake in the world of the short circuit, nor an attack on the world of short circuits; there is no question of danger or difficulty for the 160 or so groups today. That is the reality as it is, and described to the nearest millimetre, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-07-54-commissie-ic485x.u20	Minister, thank you for your answer. If I'm questioning you, it's because I've been told I'm worried. Are they due to difficulties of incomprehension or to the perception of insufficient consultation? This is one of the things I try to understand and investigate. I have received information according to which contacts have been made with members of your firm by the Network of Responsible Consumers in particular. There would not be a total appeasement. I also asked you about how the private sphere of the person who can be considered as a place of transition of baskets or food to be taken away by consumers will be respected. This element needs to be clarified by the AFSCA. The private sphere must be protected when citizens organize themselves for such distribution. In addition, there is the issue of manipulation. It is not obvious to consider collection, handling, division, packaging. If you receive from a producer twelve loaves to be placed in twelve baskets, if you receive from a marketer an apple crate that you must distribute in each basket, does this manipulation require a declaration? This question is asked to avoid drifts. This is a process of anticipation of the sector. If one considers that this type of gesture is manipulation, which will require registration and checks, the fear of being confronted with requirements of hygiene, of premises (carrying, etc.) is very real. Finally, voluntary citizens will no longer be candidates because of fear of the number of steps taken. We're going to professionalize, we're going to hire people, we're going to enter the competition between distribution channels, and we're going to end up with disproportionate demands. As you said, there are no incidents that justify taking such a circular. Clearly, there is no attempt to correct malfeasance or bad practices. As you have just done, it is important to reassure about intentions. In my view, consultation must be resumed more intensively by addressing the different formulas. If I have a bistro and I'm lending my garage for a collection, I'm going to have to file a declaration because I'm part of the food chain. Some elements need to be specified. It would be a shame if AFSCA was wasting energy on controls and putting in place a whole series of requirements that could not be met or that would break the system. In addition, it is important that the concerns of producers and citizens who organise these distributions be addressed by concrete information. If intentions are clear on all sides, there must be a way to find solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-07-54-commissie-ic485x.u21	You're right. There is a great variety of elements. For everything that is collecting vegetables and making baskets, there is no difficulty. Of course, a question arises if I move on to the other scale. On the assumption, I buy 20 kilos of meat, which I divide into two kilos packages: what do I do in this case? This is no longer the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-07-54-commissie-ic485x.u22	That's right. There is a need for demands in the way we do things.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-07-54-commissie-ic485x.u23	All these active operators with no significant processing activity can operate without any problem. I have cited the example of the 20 kilos of meat divided into two kilos packages because in this case, we are on the other side of the slider: we have an operator activity that requires hygiene standards, which means standards to be met, including a possible control if the person keeps the meat in a fridge or freezer. That seems normal to me. This is really the exceptional case.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-07-54-commissie-ic485x.u24	We agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-07-54-commissie-ic485x.u25	As evidence, we haven't had the slightest difficulty in more than a year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-07-54-commissie-ic485x.u26	This is one more reason to find that this loosening in the determination of criteria, in the categorization, which sows confusion and generates fears, was not justified. Before, there was no incident, then there was a check that didn't give anything. Perhaps there is a waste of energy or a need to clarify. Informing stakeholders of your availability to provide answers to their questions is an important point.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-07-54-commissie-ic485x.u27	My second question was actually to Ms De Block because it was a health impact concern. The question has been referred back to you because it is the professional category of farmers. I have learned of a work done at the level of the Agence française de sécurité santé de l'alimentation, de l'environnement et du travail, the ANSES, which for four years has mobilised researchers from several disciplines (doctors, sociologists, toxicologists, etc.) to analyse the impact of the use of pesticides on the health of farmers. It is interesting to examine the impact of pesticides from the point of view of farmers because they sometimes underestimate the risks. Many measures are being taken to give them the right instructions for use. This French study has shown that there is sometimes a shock between good uses by environmental concerns such as spreading products by trying not to get out of the physical field so as not to harm the environment. As a result, other practices are sometimes developing and affecting the health of the farmer. The report has also pointed out that very few studies are working on the combination of all these products to which farmers are exposed at the same time or successively and which must therefore be investigated. On the Belgian side, in terms of health studies of this scale involving different disciplines, apparently nothing exists. The Agricultural Research Centre has been conducting a survey since October 2014 to determine the impact of pesticides on the population, but Minister Collin stated that farmers were not affected by the scope of this study. I think there could be a combination of follow-up and research on these "pluri-exposures". So I would like to know if there was any intention at home to enter into this health study dynamic using our various federal and regional research centres, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-07-54-commissie-ic485x.u28	Madam, I agree with you on the importance of monitoring and prior study and on the fact that the potential impact of plant protection products should not be minimized. The European Union has a comprehensive regulatory system for the evaluation and authorisation of these products. This system is recognized as the strictest, or the most strict, system in the world. This assessment takes into account risks to the health of consumers, to the health of residents and to the health of potential users. This system is evolving. It takes into account the evolution of the knowledge disseminated in the studies, scientific research or other communications that we are required to have over time. For example, the evaluation of the multi-exhibitions you are approaching is important. This is one of the topics currently being worked on by EFSA, the European Food Safety Authority. Like the majority of relevant epidemiological studies on pesticides, the study you are looking at has been followed up and analyzed by my services in collaboration with the Institute of Public Health. As indicated in the Anses report, it is quite possible that reductions in pesticide use are often driven by environmental or economic constraints or concerns rather than by the desire to reduce user exposure. You're suggesting that we extend the studies. It is clear that each initiative taken to reduce the amount of active substances used and the risk associated with the use of products must have a positive impact on the exposure and therefore on the health of the farmer, horticulturalist or applicator of the product. I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate the importance we attach to the implementation and monitoring of federal pesticide reduction plans. The report you are quoting indicates that users are not aware, at least partially, of pesticide exposure and of the health consequences. This reminds us of the importance of the dissemination of clear information, the continuous awareness of the users of these products, the training and the granting of plant licences. In this regard, I deeply regret the unjustifiable delay taken by the Walloon Region. In Belgium, specific monitoring of farmers' health is not planned at this stage. On the other hand, the administration compiles a large amount of information in a largely systematic manner in order to have all the necessary information to properly identify this problem and to increase the effectiveness of pesticide risk management. For example, the administration has organised the monitoring of various indicators and data obtained in particular by the Belgian Poison Control Centre, as well as the monitoring of articles and scientific literature on the medium- and long-term effects of pesticides in the agricultural environment. It should be noted that the topic of operator health and exposure to pesticides for agricultural, urban, veterinary or other uses was the subject of an international colloquium at the end of 2014, bringing together more than 200 people from the European Food Safety Authority. ANSES was also present, along with many European governmental and academic delegations making up this panel of 200 experts. In the course of this symposium, many progress has been made in preserving occupational exposure to pesticides. The key factors and mechanisms that influence this exposure were also discussed. And this is where I join you, this colloquium highlighted the need for further research and follow-up. The complementarity of competences means that contacts exist between federal and regional authorities and institutions and are necessary in the context of authorisations of plant protection products and in the context of monitoring and post-authorisation vigilance of plant protection products, in particular in order to agree on measures to be taken concerning the information, use, restriction or information to be disseminated in order to prevent risks related to the use of pesticides. I therefore support your approach to the need for follow-up and further research on the impact of these products. Several monitoring and follow-up projects and work are currently being carried out at the national and international levels. In addition, links are established between the regional and federal levels on this very important topic for public health in general and that of users in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-09-07-54-commissie-ic485x.u29	Thank you for that answer, Minister. I would just like to stress the importance of integrating the different exposures into ongoing studies on public health and farmers. There should also be an opportunity in Belgium to carry out field research and to collect data on the type of exposure of farmers to such a product. There is also a need for health monitoring of these farmers. I am increasingly confronted with farmers who are moving towards bio, not out of deep conviction but because they are beginning to have health problems, serious diseases in the nose, sensory organs. Parkinson's disease is now recognized as an occupational disease related to exposures. They are self-employed, so they do not benefit from the work done by the Occupational Diseases Fund for example. However, they deserve more systematic attention. As you said, there's a certain lack of knowledge. Whenever measures are taken to limit the use of a product, this limitation applies to individuals but not to professionals. Therefore, they continue to be exposed more strongly. For individuals, more restrictive and protective measures are being taken. I would not want environmental concerns to be harmful to the health of those who use products at risk. Both dimensions must be taken into account. Therefore, in the context of the studies under way in Belgium, at European level and in neighbouring countries, I would find it interesting to see how to integrate long-term monitoring, with data collection for the different components to which farmers are exposed, combinations, exposure times, quantities, etc. Thank you very much for taking this time for this committee.
