ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u1	Madam President, Minister, I do not know how this question ended up here, since it had already been tabled in May as a result of vacation reports. They revealed that many beauty specialists or so-called skin therapists are giving injections with botox or related agents. However, the law is clear about this: "Next treatments are reserved for doctors: any non-healing technical medical procedure by means of any instrument, chemical or device through the skin or mucous membranes." Only doctors should therefore break the skin barrier and inject such active substances. This applies not only to botox, but also to other fillers such as hyaluronic acid, fillers, mesotherapy, some peels and laser treatments. There are only exceptions for tattoos and piercings. Even with aesthetic treatment by a doctor, there are risks associated with such interventions, but of course I don't have to tell you this, such as allergic reactions and skin death. It goes without saying that in people who are not trained to carry out such interventions, the risks are even greater. A thorough knowledge of the blood vessels, muscles and nerves is obviously required. Antiallergic treatments should also be initiated in case of allergic reactions, which is, of course, the domain of a doctor. Such interventions are publicly advertised in women's magazines and on the Internet. I suppose you're aware of that. Are controls being carried out? If so, what conclusion do they draw? Will you take measures to limit or prevent such malpractices? If so, what measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u2	In most cases, health services react in response to complaints from citizens or patients or after clear exceedances of the legal provisions have been reported. The Law of 23 May 2013 regulating the qualifications required to carry out interventions of non-healing aesthetic medicine and aesthetic surgery, and regulating advertising and information, provides, in any case, a clearly restrictive framework for the necessary qualification and competence for the interventions. In addition, there is Article 3 of the co-ordinated law of 10 May 2015 on the exercise of health professions. This ranks the practices described by you under unlawful practice of medicine. Botox injections and all kinds of dermal filling by non-doctors are therefore subject to the unlawful practice of medicine with the associated criminal consequences. The provincial medical committees play a role in the detection and possible notification to the public prosecutor in accordance with Article 119 of the Law of 10 May 2015. In preparing the reform of the Law of 10 May 2015, particular attention is paid to strengthening control and enforcement from the Federal Public Health Department in coordination with the inspection services of the other health authorities. Furthermore, sanctions must be strengthened and justice must be made more sensitive to the problem. Now, all too often the police dismiss police reports. The Law of 23 May 2013 also contains an advertising ban, distinguishing advertising from regulated practical information by qualified providers. In the case of non-compliance with the advertising ban, criminal sanctions are also included in Article 22/1 of the Act of 23 May 2013. The broad population must also be kept informed. The media initiative, to which you refer, has such an effect. As you point out, these are interventions involving serious risks if they are not carried out by qualified, experienced doctors in an environment that provides the necessary quality guarantees. However, there is also a responsibility on the part of the citizen, who allows such treatments to be applied, without ensuring that the person making the actions is effectively competent and competent, and without checking which products are used.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u3	Thank you for your comprehensive answer with a clear overview, Madam Secretary. I'm glad I got a better idea of the case that way. According to one of the reports I've seen, the number of complaints is increasing. So I think it should remain a focus.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u4	Question No 12815 by Mrs Jadin is transformed into a written question. Question No 12914 by Mr Blanchart is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u5	Madam President, our fellow Members from the sp.a. and related mutualities were able to report to us via the media a few months ago and to draw our attention to the fact that more doctors could and should be convenient. They pointed to the existing risk derivatives of the decreasing number of convening doctors. There are important financial consequences as to whether or not a doctor works together. It has an impact on the patient. Moreover, they also indicate that there would be large regional differences. Because regional justice is at the heart of our party, I would have liked to know the following. What are the consequences of these differences for the yard on the reform of hospital funding? I certainly wanted to know, as large groups of specialists are not in agreement. A further aspect is the following. How are current supplements, which are usually charged by non-convention doctors, now used within the total hospital funding? Is everything officially happening or is there a gray circuit? Is there a different financial arrangement in hospitals for dealing with pay supplements from intra-muros specialists or is there a general legal basis? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u6	Madam President, Mr Vercammen, the fees are not taken into account within hospital funding through the budget of the financial resources or BFM, as the funding of fees and BFM are mutually exclusive. That's in Articles 102 and 154 of the Hospital Act. For the general arrangements between hospital and hospital doctors, the legal basis is Articles 144 and 145 of the Hospital Act. However, they are very general and allow great freedom in the field of work to complete these arrangements by mutual agreement, even with differences not only between different doctors and different hospitals but also with differences within one hospital between the different specialities. I assume you do. The yard of the reform of hospital funding was explained in detail here during the committee of 20 September 2016. You know that a study phase is currently under way on the unravelling of the BFM, on the one hand, and on the question of what an acceptable distribution could be for the fees for each part between the technical part and the personal share for the intellectual instrument, on the other. These studies are currently being carried out and we are behind them, but it is still premature to give concrete indications as to how this reform will affect fees and the corresponding supplements. Meanwhile, this government has taken other measures to dive and limit the proliferation of supplements. This has again been demonstrated by last week's MAHA study.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u7	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, but I am still a little hungry with regard to the approach towards convention. There is a clear trend to be observed by me and by others on the ground towards the convention of certain specialties. With regard to the yard of the review of hospital funding, this may constitute a danger. I am sure that you are aware of this and that you will be watching this terrifyingly. I also get signals from the institutions that in some institutions up to 70% of a supplementary fee is paid to hospital funding. This is more or less an alternative financing. We will follow this up with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u8	(...) and that percentage has increased in recent years. This must therefore be done simultaneously with the reform of hospital funding. It is partly used to meet the systematic under-financing of hospitals. I call it a perverse mechanism because this is not a good thing for the patient, neither is it for the caregiver, because these amounts are wrongly published, when he does not receive that money himself, but has to ask the patient. The hospital uses these resources for matters which are not always for the benefit of the doctor or of better working conditions or which promote the quality of work. We want to give more involvement to the doctors through the medical councils. The medical board should be able to take part in decisions on what is happening with hospital resources and how this can improve the quality of service. There are a lot of things to do in a hospital, but you know that there is also a lot of money going into infrastructure, for example increasing the cafeteria and so on. For me, it is important to invest in improving the quality of medical care. I believe that we share that view.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u9	Indeed, we share that thought.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u10	Madam Minister, this question is about the warm breast, something our group has been advocating since last year, especially my colleague An Capoen and myself. We call for breast reconstruction to be restored with its own tissue, so that the payment for doctors is fair and the amount that women still have to pay themselves is no longer so high. We are therefore very pleased that a political agreement has been reached on this. We have been able to read this in the newspapers, and there is talk of a short deadline for transposition into practice. However, I still receive reports from women in practice who ask for tenders and which show that they would have to pay thousands of euros themselves. I would point out that the political agreement has not yet been translated into practice. Madam Minister, what progress has been made in transposing the agreement? When exactly is this gonna go in? Many women in the field are looking forward to this. What is the exact arrangement of the cost for the patient herself, so that they themselves are aware of this? How many people with increased benefits and people without increased benefits will have to pay a maximum of their own pockets for such a warm chest?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u11	Madam Minister, this is a subject that is very close to our hearts, as you know. We have taken a lot of action in this area. In the meantime, as we understand it, the National Committee on Medicine has reached an agreement. The Medicomut agreement includes a better reimbursement of these interventions, better transparency of the chargeable costs and the introduction of a number of quality requirements, such as a ban on aesthetic supplements. The reimbursement fees for the surgeons will be adjusted. No supplements are awarded for double rooms. That is what we have understood from the Medicomut agreement. Just like Mrs Van Camp, however, we do not see anything changing in the field. I understand that the agreement is being submitted to the hospitals and that they can choose whether or not to sign it. Madam Secretary, how many hospitals have signed this agreement so far? What hospitals are we talking about? What are the obstacles or obstacles for hospitals to sign the agreement? Are you taking measures to encourage the hospitals to go along with that agreement? If so, what are these measures? What timing do you put first?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u12	Madam Minister, in the case of mastectomy, according to the figures in my possession, between 14 and 20 % of Belgian women choose breast reconstructive surgery, of which 40 % resort to so-called autologous reconstruction. Choosing this kind of high-quality reconstruction as a result of severely mutilating cancer is an extremely intimate choice that, you will agree, should not be influenced by monetary considerations. However, the very high cost of this type of reconstructive transplant – almost 3,000 euros – is quite dissuasive and does not allow the greatest number of patients to resort to this procedure, not to mention that some doctors do not hesitate to claim up to 500 % supplements. In order to avoid this kind of abuse, but also to offer better reimbursement, a convention was negotiated a few months ago, at the initiative of INAMI. The price of the operation has been increased from 1 527 to 2 940 euros, but in return, doctors prohibit any supplement exceeding 100 % of this amount. However, on the day I tabled the question, it turned out that none of the 69 hospitals that could subscribe to it agreed to do so. Minister, do you confirm the information that no hospital has subscribed to this agreement that the ABSYM itself has accepted? How do you explain such a boycott? Considering the need to allow women greater access to transplant reconstruction, are you considering making adjustments to this convention so that it can be accepted by hospitals? If so, it seems to me essential that they do not constitute a step backwards from the progress achieved.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u13	Mrs Van Camp, the agreement between the insurance committee of the Medical Care Service of the RIZIV and the approved nursing establishments on the reimbursement of the total uni- or bilateral breast reconstruction was approved at the insurance committee of 25 July at the RIZIV. You know that this has been a very long negotiation, longer than a pregnancy. Nevertheless, an agreement was reached. In the meantime, the text of this Convention has been transmitted to all relevant hospitals. The agreement in question stipulates that it must be signed by the management of the hospital, the chief physician and the head of the surgeons. Discussions are currently under way in various hospitals on this subject. The general objective of the proposal is to ensure that no supplements are charged for 40% of the interventions because the patient is nursed in a double room. An annual evaluation of the agreement is also foreseen by the National Committee on Medicine and Medical Funds. The centres signing the agreement will be published on the RIZIV website so that any woman in need of such reconstruction can also be sure that if she goes to this particular hospital, the convention will be honored. The discussions are still ongoing. Some are already coming in, but we think it is important to give everyone the opportunity to join. We know that this will not take long, but within many hospitals this is a whole discussion that is being held. I'm not pessimistic. I'm not a pessimist, Mr. Senesael, there will always be doctors who meet. The most important thing is that there is enough for the women who want this operation, that they can be sure that, whatever the hospital, it will be reimbursed according to the terms of the convention. We just want a distinction to be made between those who stand and those who honor the convention. That would be a big step forward. I would prefer all hospitals to join in, which would be a very good thing for all concerned. If it is not, it must be clear to women in a very simple way. We'll say that, then. If it appears on the RIZIV website, it is easy to find which hospital it is used in. We will ensure that this is followed up and that possible infringements are reported. It's a step forward. It's been a very difficult file, with a whole history. The most important thing is that women who now have no financial access to such an operation, who will have it, may not be in all hospitals, but in a large number.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u14	I fully agree with that. Congratulations on the agreement that was finally reached after all these years. It is indeed a very important step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u15	I fully agree with that: it is a fine agreement that the Minister has reached. I certainly do not doubt the good will of the government in this matter, but I am a little concerned about the time that is apparently taken by the hospitals. I have a bit of an uncomfortable feeling about it, I have to be honest. I am also glad that, if it is there, it will be clearly published. That too is a good thing. As I have said, I am concerned about the time taken and I will come back with a follow-up question at the end of the month. Maybe that's a time frame we need to keep an eye on.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u16	Thank you, Madam Minister, for your answers. Like you, I underline the progress made in this matter. I share your willingness to sign these conventions. However, I remain skeptical and dubitative since, despite your optimism and voluntarism, no convention has been honoured or signed to date. I hope, like you, that at least a large number of hospitals will be able to subscribe to it so that the people concerned can make their choice of hospital after signing the agreement. We are following the matter carefully and hope to have concrete results in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u17	There are some who have already signed but we find it necessary to give everyone the opportunity before publishing. If we publish one after the other, we'll have rumors...
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u18	Did you give a deadline?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u19	We gave them time, but we have to conclude at some point. It was late July, remember? So, now it's time to close I find.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u20	Madam Minister, my colleague, Muriel Gerkens, asked you in July about the abolition of the ethics committees, in favour of an ethical clinic for clinical trials testing medicinal products for human use. You said at the time that the European regulation obliges us or forces us to change our structure, but I do not think that this is really necessary if the slope you mentioned at the time is to be followed. However, I think that time and practice have already caught up with us. I'll hear that in your answer. It is quite clear in the Regulation that it is left to the Member State concerned to determine which body or bodies are involved in the assessment of the application for a clinical trial. You shouldn't choose a committee. You could retain several committees when this is done. You also said that this simplification will make our country more attractive to the pharmaceutical world. I am concerned about patient safety and ethical guarantees. Madam Minister, do you agree with me that, if the regulation is properly implemented, it is possible to maintain several ethics committees, but that you do not choose to do so, given your answer? If this one ethics committee is enclosed in the Public Health Office, it is entirely your responsibility. This can be interpreted as a conflict of interest. What is your opinion on this? Who's gonna be on that ethics committee? Experts rightly fear that this is a full-time job, which makes it likely that you will not find sufficient experts with sufficient experience or relationships with the practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u21	There is still plenty of consultation with the various stakeholders, namely the seven university hospitals involved, the ethics committees, the FAGG and the pharmaceutical sector. The draft law to enable the implementation of the European regulation of 2014 in Belgian law has not yet been finalised and has therefore not yet been submitted to the Council of Ministers. Therefore, taking into account the current state of affairs, I cannot yet answer all your specific questions. We put patient safety first. I think this is very necessary, taking into account what has already happened in other countries. On the one hand, we want to comply with the implementation of this European regulation, i.e. with an overarching committee, or whatever one wants to call it. On the other hand, we do not want to throw the child away with the bath water and just ignore the expertise that has formed in our country in the various ethical committees. There has been more than one extensive consultation and a proposal is being sought that is both safe and workable. We do not want it to slow down either. On the contrary, we want to maintain the speed and robustness with which the opinions are delivered. We want to comply with this European regulation and arrive at an end result that is at least as good as it can be better; as fast as it can be faster; and also safe, if it can be even safer. A consensus will therefore be reached. Of course, the negotiators have to reconnect to their base after each contact. We are making progress and I do not think that the consultation will last for a very long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u22	Madam Minister, I understand from the field of work that steps are being taken to find a basis for a particular slope, but a basis for support is something other than a consensus. I don't know what timing you can stick to that. That's what I'm asking to know when I can put in a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u23	If I've learned one thing in politics, it's not to set deadlines for myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u24	In a few weeks' time, Mrs Dedry will perhaps be submitting a new question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u25	Madam President, Madam Minister, I would like to raise today the question of Malaprotec and Atovaquone, which are, in fact, medicines withdrawn from the market in Belgium for major non-compliances following an inspection conducted by the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in India since the production site is located in that country. Belgium is therefore concerned with the production of these medicinal products. Moreover, at the request of the European Commission, a re-evaluation procedure was launched in April 2016. I would like to make it clear here that my question was tabled some time ago. Having said that, I would like to know what is happening in terms of the actual use of these two medicines which have been withdrawn in Belgium. Did they have significant market shares in the indication of malaric prevention? The Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products (AFMPS) states that therapeutic alternatives are available in Belgium. But how has the information been passed on to doctors, pharmacists, and, where appropriate, to patients taking this malaric prevention? Indeed, I would remind you that these are not medicines that you are taking for only a few days. Finally, a re-evaluation procedure has been requested by the European Medicines Agency from the Scientific Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use. Do you have any idea how long it will take for us to have the results of this re-evaluation? I guess we'll get them quickly. In fact, perhaps you already have the conclusions today.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the two medicines withdrawn from the Belgian market are Malaprotec and Atovaquone/Proguanil TEVA. They are presented as tablets. These are generic medicines for Malarone, the indication of which is the prophylactic and acute treatment of Plasmodium falciparum malaria. This medicine consists of two active substances: Atovaquone and Proguanil which are combined to effectively treat the parasite responsible for malaria. As you know, malaria is one of the most common infections in the world and is transmitted through mosquito bites. The AFMPS shall ensure that alternatives exist before taking a decision to suspend the marketing authorisation. Upon withdrawal from the Belgian market, pharmacists shall be informed of the withdrawal of the medicinal product by the pharmaceutical firm holding the authorisation to place the medicinal product on the market via short news from the pharmaceutical association APB. On 22 July, the Scientific Committee for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products for Human Use within the European Medicines Agency (EMA) recommended the suspension of the marketing authorisation, a bioequivalence study of which had been carried out in the Semler laboratory in India. This recommendation is now sent to the European Commission in order to transpose it into a legally binding decision. The Commission will publish a decision which will apply to all Member States, whether or not they have taken temporary measures for the suspension of medicinal products. Since the AFMPS had already taken temporary suspension measures which are in line with what the EMA recommends, this decision will not have an impact on the Belgian market, since we have already taken the decision. It should be noted that the firms concerned by the note have already committed themselves to carrying out new bioequivalence studies in a laboratory other than Semler in India. Furthermore, EMA and national authorities continue to work closely together to ensure that studies supporting marketing authorisations in the European Union are conducted according to the highest standards and that the companies involved fully comply with all good clinical practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u27	Minister, you didn't tell me about the market share. Is the medicine widely used or not? What about the patients for whom treatment is under way? How was the information disseminated by physicians and pharmacists? Beyond all this, there is much to ask about how the controls are carried out and how we can guarantee the quality and safety of medicines for patients. This is a company based in India. The medicines produced in Belgium are ultra-controlled, and this is so much better: for patients, for safety, for quality. But it's not the same everywhere. I think this file is really revealing. There is double standards at the qualitative level and also at the level of flexibility given to pharmaceutical companies. I would like, through this dossier, to be able to reflect on this aspect of things, at the level of Belgium with pharma.be, but also at least in the European area. Compared to medicinal products produced outside the European area, we really have, I think, double standards. In the end, it's not good for patients. We're taking risks. Moreover, this is not correct with regard to our pharmaceutical sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u28	I hope EMA moves to Brussels. That would be easier. EMA is currently in England.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u29	I'm not targeting a firm. This case concerns India. But this problem is not just about this firm, not just India. You have heard the meaning of my words. I'm not blaming a product. But I think there are really things to be re-examined for everything that is produced outside the European area. I think this is a subject that we could bring to the level of Europe. To be seen with pharma.be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u30	Madam President, Madam Minister, having been contacted by doctors concerned with the problem, I wanted to speak with you about the subject. The last doctor who contacted me in this regard had been referred to several sites, including one in Romania and another in Greece. These sites, which are therefore not only Belgian, deal with Belgian doctors. These websites mention data, sometimes false, without authorisation from the doctors concerned, with the result that there are incorrect telephone calls. In addition, when the person wishes to delete the data about her from the site in question, it is very complicated. These sites, in the indications contained therein, are not responsible: "All published information is of a purely informative nature and does not, under any circumstances, involve liability (...), does not guarantee the reality of objective information, the content of subjective information and/or the accuracy of published medical information." This raises a wide range of questions in terms of respect for privacy, ethics and economic law. Minister, are you aware of this situation? Have any complaints been made to the FPS Public Health or has the FPS been aware of any cases? Do these sites comply with different legislation? Finally, have you started a discussion with your colleagues responsible for this matter, the Minister of Economy, the Minister of Justice and the Minister for Digital Agenda and Telecommunications on this subject? I preferred to speak to you in the first place, since I imagine you can speak for the whole government.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u31	Mrs Fonck, for the time being, my administration has not received any complaints against this type of website. It is therefore difficult for me to comment on the precise way in which this type of complaint is handled. There is no breach of privacy since these sites only disseminate the name and medical specialty of the medical professional concerned as data. The status of professional contact data is subject to discussion. In this regard, the Federal Database of Health Professionals, the cadastre, already allows the public access to the name, title or medical specialty of each health professional and to the data relating to their authorization to practise. The public also has access to the professional contact data of the healthcare professional unless the latter objects. Publicity of this information ensures the safety and information of patients. In the situation you are reporting to me, it appears to me that this is more a matter of the right to rectification of incorrect data and business practices than of public health issues. That is why I refer you to the Minister of Economy, the Minister of Justice and the Minister for Digital Agenda and Telecommunications for a more precise answer to your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u32	Madam Minister, I quote two sites at random: bonmedecin.be, based in Romania, doctoraltime.be, based in Greece. Your contact details, and mine too, with the phone number, are actually on these sites, but with mistakes since, as far as I know, you no longer practice. When it is said that it ensures good information of the patient, I say no. This is not good information from the patient! Furthermore, it is extremely complicated to have this data deleted. I will address your colleagues, and I will bring back to you this highlighted case. The question is particularly interesting. The rules in this area should be further defined because a series of erroneous information is circulating. In the end, it is not good for either the patients or the care providers concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u33	Minister, this is not the first time. I would dream of not having to ask you about the subject anymore because that would mean that everything would be settled. I would like to return to the subject of the fight against hepatitis C and the creation of the compensation fund for the victims of this disease. Since February 2015, more than 18 months have passed. At that time, you referred to the specific policy note of 2015 on the creation of an intervention fund for patients infected with hepatitis C virus following a blood transfusion. You asked your administrations to have a precise and encrypted survey and vision of the problem. Where is more than 18 months later on both the creation of the fund and the preparatory work you have requested from your administrations? Are they finished? What are the conclusions? Can we dispose of it? Do these conclusions differ from the content of the KEC's opinion on the subject? I think it is important to be able to move forward on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u34	Mrs Fonck, in my political note, I said that I would look into the creation of a fund for patients who were infected before 1986 with hepatitis C virus following a blood transfusion. To meet my commitment, I launched a study in coordination with KCE and INAMI. This study will present solutions from an ethical and legal point of view, but also concrete and budgeted proposals for the operationalization and organisation of the processing of these cases. In the current state of legislation and the right of action, all these remedies are long and difficult. To the extent possible, the study will present, based on selected scenarios, quick and simple decision trees, and associated risks. With regard to intervention and compensation, the introduction of new, highly effective medicines which, in some cases, can cure people affected, will have to be taken into account in the report, which will also examine alternatives to the application of common law alone. I support the political choice of giving special and fair treatment to all victims of contaminated blood. However, particular attention should be paid to minimizing discrimination against other types of victims of medical accidents. The final report is scheduled for the end of December 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u35	Thank you, Madam Minister. Two or three thoughts, if you'll allow me. The first one is that it looks very complicated to me. You mention points of difficulty even though there are already compensations. That is why I am also surprised that you are talking about discrimination, since there are already, let us recall, compensation for patients infected with the AIDS virus following a blood transfusion. So I find it difficult to understand why we would talk about not introducing discrimination, even though patients who have been infected with hepatitis C virus transfusions are in some way discriminated against compared to those who have been infected with AIDS. Secondly, I find it difficult to understand why it takes so long, when compensation models already exist. Instead of resuming everything from scratch, we could build on the existing operational, ethical and legal aspects. Thirdly, I would like to stress the need to move forward on this issue which is not new and which is delayed without any basis. Moreover, it should not be confused with the very important issue of reimbursement of new medicines for children and adults suffering from the hepatitis C virus. Progress must therefore be made quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u36	Madam Chair, Minister, this is not the first time I have spoken on this. You know that we have tabled texts on this matter. Today, one of the obstacles that makes it impossible to increase the donation of living organ donors is the brake on them. This is done, and it is so much better, in a number of cases, with very good successes. At the same time, a number of living organ donors could be recruited if the brakes could be lifted. Among these, there is the problem of taking care of medical expenses. I had tabled a proposal in its time that could have convinced you because I believe you had responded positively. You mentioned moving forward by a royal decree. Minister, what about this Royal Order to remove, if possible completely, personal intervention in relation to the health benefits granted to live organ donors? If we have not yet been able to make concrete progress, what are the reasons for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u37	Mrs Fonck, the Royal Decree pursuant to Article 37, § 16quater of the Law on Compulsory Health Care and Allowances Insurance, coordinated on 14 July 1994, is under examination by the competent bodies of the INAMI and is expected to enter into force at the end of 2016, at the beginning of 2017. The content of this order consists in the removal of the moderator ticket for all medical services during the year following the collection, for consultations, clinical biology and radiology from the end of the first year until ten years after the collection. In this way, 90% of medical expenses should be covered. The cost assessment of this measure will be based on a pilot study carried out in 2011 by Professor Katrien Kesteloot of KUL, who also works for me. Its monitoring can be carried out on the basis of billing data. A possible impact on the number of live donors can be identified through Eurotransplant's annual report. As previously reported, this is a first step. The next steps should be to cover direct non-medical costs and to compensate for any loss of income. In my view, the objective of all the measures taken in this area should be to get as close as possible to the cost-compensation model, while taking into account the technical difficulties inherent in our health system. For medical costs, a solution has been found that is already a good step forward. For the rest, like direct non-medical costs and loss of income, we still have to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u38	Madam Minister, thank you. An accuracy: you know that there is a pre-donation balance. Will it also be integrated? This has not yet been done, but it would be good to include the donor's medical record in the care before the donation. These are costs that are incurred before and sometimes result from more detailed examinations. I'm thinking about some heart tests. I think logic would like us to integrate pre-donation and post-donation. This is obviously an important step. You know that this theme is very dear to me. I've been following a lot of kidney transplant patients. Additional patients may benefit from a transplant. It is known that the results, when it comes to a living donor donation, are extremely positive as we are in the best possible conditions. I hope that we can continue to move forward in the reflection on the other obstacles, and in particular on the loss of income. These people are on sick leave I would like to insist that we work well on people, regardless of their status, whether they are civil servants, wage earners, but also independent. I would like to draw your attention to this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u39	Madam President, Madam Minister, in 20% of dental fillings, amalgam would still be used. You said that you want to encourage our dentists to avoid the use of this kind of fillings, because mercury is of course known as a toxic substance for the body. There are already countries, such as Norway and Denmark, that have already banned this mercury in dental fillings. There is also an opinion from the European Union on this subject, but there is no ban in force in Europe. There are also, rightly, a number of countries that fear that a ban on mercury in dental fillings will be an additional cost for dentists, as they might pass it on to their patients. Of course, this is not the intention. My questions are as follows. How will you encourage dentists to stop using mercury fillings? Are you thinking of fines or other financial incentives? Do you intend to introduce a ban in Belgium? How will you guarantee that any additional cost of dental fillings without amalgam will not be passed on to the patient? How will the patient be informed? Will the health insurance funds be given a role in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u40	Mrs Dedry, I would like to introduce the percentage of 20%, published in the press, somewhat nuanced. A thorough analysis of the available data indicates that the proportion of amalgam fillings would be significantly lower. Since there are many types of fillings on the market, it is not possible to determine an exact figure, but we think that 20% is far too high. Health insurance together with the providers tries to get a clearer and more objective picture of the use of amalgam and composite materials tout court in the restorative dentistry. Belgium endorsed the Minimata Convention in 2013, which follows the United Nations Environment Programme, is globally binding and imposes conditions on the use of mercury, among other things. In the meantime, our country has already committed itself to regulating the processing of mercury-containing products and residues, including in dental practice. The European Union adopted measures for a far-reaching ban in 2015. Further information can be obtained from the authorities responsible for the environment. I would also like to inform you that this month I asked for a detailed opinion from the Dental Council on the use of amalgam in restorative dentistry. I expect this advice in mid-2017. They must, of course, ask all their members. A legal ban on the use of amalgam is not immediately obvious, as it is still used in certain cases if it is impossible to use a new composite material. This is the case, for example, if it is not possible to create a perfectly dry application area. That seems to be a technical issue, but it still exists. I would also point out that since 1 July 2008 an additional fee has been reimbursed from medical care insurance for the application of an adhesive technique in composite-based tooth restoration. In 2015, 88 % of fillings or permanent teeth were charged this adhesive technique. We therefore assume that no amalgam has been used in that 88 %. This measure is certainly an incentive for dentists to use composite material.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u41	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. I remember that we do not have very precise figures at the moment. I know you're talking about 20, but you think this is an exaggeration. However, it is not clear how much it is then.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u42	That's why we've asked the Dentistry Council to check this out. We do have the RIZIV figures for the refund of those composite materials. In 88 % of cases composite materials are used and a supplement is charged. I think this is a good sign. I continue the line: if you charge in 88 % of the cases composite material, I assume that in 88 % of the cases no amalgam was used. I hope I can assume that.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u43	Minister, I would like to know where we stand with regard to the safety plan in the event of an accident at nuclear facilities. It was scheduled for January and then June 2016. It includes the whole issue of iodine distribution to the entire population, in accordance with the recommendation of the Higher Health Council. We also have a proposal pending here in committee on the subject. But there is also the organization, verification and exercises in the operation of hospitals, care services and care providers. This is a purely health dimension which is complementary to that which depends on the Minister of the Interior. So, for your health skills, I would like to know the deadlines now and where you are in the way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u44	Mrs Gerkens, first of all, I would like to stress that the ultimate responsibility for nuclear incidents lies with the Minister of the Interior, of course. Updating and optimizing the nuclear emergency plan is a fairly complex and broad process that takes into account different factors. This includes, inter alia, the results of exercises, input from several working groups, conclusions and lessons from actual incidents such as Chernobyl and Fukushima, the national opinions of the Higher Council for Health and the Scientific Council for Ionizing Radiation, or international recommendations emanating at European level from HERCA-WENRA (Heads of the European Radiological Protection Competent Authorities – Western European Nuclear Regulators Association), or at the global level from IAEA, the International Atomic Energy Agency. The drafting and coordination of the plan is the responsibility of the Government Crisis Centre, with which my department works closely. In this context, my services have recently received the current draft of a new contingency plan for its evaluation. A particular focus is the future strategy of preventive distribution of potassium iodide tablets. The aim, during the next nuclear information campaign in 2017, is to implement an updated strategy in a joint and concerted manner with the preventive distribution of tablets to the most vulnerable target groups, namely children, adolescents, pregnant women and breastfeeding women throughout Belgium. Communicating regularly and adequately preparing the population are two important aspects of this framework. Given the involvement of several departments in this area, it is essential to have a broad base within the government. We've changed. It used to be within a 20-kilometre perimeter around a power plant. Now we're going to do this all over our territory and according to the evidence-based criterion for vulnerable groups, for groups that will benefit from preventive medication. It seems that with age, this becomes less relevant. There, it is true that we will reach many groups in the population, from north to south, for our entire territory. I have already said in this committee that I was convinced, when we established the perimeter, that it was easier to do so throughout our country. In addition, people move, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u45	Did you say 2017? It's 2017, not a month in 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u46	The information campaign was planned for 2017 but I don't know what month.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u47	To have more precise elements, do I ask the Minister of the Interior?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u48	Yeah, but anyway, we're gonna work together. It is his competence but, of course, we are very concerned because it is a matter of public health.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u49	What is of course disturbing is that a new plan was to be ready in January of this year. We're going to be a year later and it's not done yet. There will still be working groups, exercises, evaluations, etc., and implementations to be done. I agree with you, it is complex, but it would still have to happen at some point if our country were to be prepared to protect and treat the population properly in the event of an accident.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u50	Minister, we know that the use of antibiotics is too important for us. At the end of August, a study of Free Mutualities showed that over-consumption was particularly important in children, especially in babies; 47% of children under 2 years of age are using antibiotics. According to this study, an average baby receives three cans of antibiotics a year. We know the increase in germs that resist antibiotics when there is an overconsumption of antibiotics. But it is also known that excessive use of antibiotics plays a role in the development of chronic diseases such as asthma or obesity. Other important drugs such as broncho-dilators would be used for four in ten babies. According to this study, this would be unnecessary in some cases such as bronchiolites and viral diseases. Nevertheless, there is an important statute of limitations. The same applies to painkillers, which concern one in ten children. Their intake increases with the patient's age. Since this type of medication is available over the counter, we do not necessarily have a precise idea of this consumption. Minister, what specific measures are in place to combat this over-consumption among children and adolescents in particular? This study questions the pressure of parents on doctors, who therefore prescribe. That's an argument I can't accept, because the doctor knows what he's doing. On the other hand, we know that crèches do not, or rarely, accept sick children. This puts pressure on parents. Comprehensive approaches beyond federal jurisdiction are surely possible. On the other hand, I don't know if it's related, but it's connected to me. In June, we passed a law on various provisions, which was designed, among other things, to promote access for children to medicines authorized for adults. In these devices, how can there be no over-prescription and excessive consumption? Are there safeguards in place?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u51	Madam Minister, I believe that we all have the same analysis and the same questions. I will not repeat the figures given by my colleague. After all, it is the same figures from the same research carried out by the Independent Hospital Funds. The fact is that we have been fighting over-consumption of antibiotics for years, but not with the desired result. I'll add another accent. It's the international breastfeeding week this week. Breast-feeding prevents children from having problems with the bronchial system. This has been sufficiently proven by authoritative studies. For years there have been directives from Domus Medica on the more rational use of antibiotics. Do you think that the directives are sufficiently complied with? Is there any way to monitor this more strictly, as the result is not daunting? What measures are you considering to improve the protection of infants and children under the age of six, not only against too many and unnecessary antibiotics, but also against all these aerosols? Do you have any concrete plans for this? If so, which one? Finally, there is a Federal Breast-feeding Committee, which usually comes out once a year with a awareness campaign, such as last week on sustainability. It's a very ecological action this year. Perhaps there can be a bit of a bit of a bit of a tooth there under the motto 'preventing' is better than healing'?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u52	Madam Minister, my question is also about the use of antibiotics for young children. Of course, I will not repeat all the figures; we have read them all in the meantime. In this context, you rightly point to the responsibility of the parents. In our youthful society, they often do not take the time to see their child ill and take on other means too quickly. I believe that an information campaign through the Public Health Office is a possibility here. Cooperation with the Communities may also be appropriate. Don't you miss the doctor's responsibility a little too soon? Behind each prescription is a doctor. Behind each episode is a pharmacist. I believe that together they have a very great responsibility for the use of medicines in our country. On the other hand, it is the responsibility of the parents, yes. But many parents have boundless confidence in the doctor and the pharmacist. I therefore believe that they also bear a great deal of responsibility. What measures do you intend to take with regard to the doctors? Are there any protocols in this area? If so, are they still up-to-date? Or are they in need of innovation? Are the doctors getting sufficient feedback on their prescription behaviour today? Is this just about the percentage of cheap medicines or do they receive other data? How do you view the extension of the analysis and feedback on the prescription behaviour of doctors?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u53	Madam President, Minister, my question concerns a more specific aspect, the case of angina in children. The Antibiotics Commission advises penicillin for angina because it has a very specific action against the streptococci concerned, unlike antibiotics with wider spectrum. The medicine exists for adults but not for children. Therefore, a masterful preparation of the phenoxymethylpenicillin-based pharmacist is required. There is only one seller in Belgium and the price is very high. There is a loss for the pharmacist and the consequence is that paediatricians or generalists tend to instead prescribe antibiotics with wider spectrum, with the problems that this can cause. Minister, what can you do to solve this problem? Can you influence the price of this product?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u54	Mrs Gerkens, Mr Dedry, Mr Jiroflée and Mr Van Hees, thank you for your questions. Steps are regularly taken to raise awareness among health professionals and the public about the problems of over-consumption of drugs, specifically antibiotics. In 2011, the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products (AFMPS) launched a campaign for the public, "The drug is not a candy", taking 12 keys to help it make good use of it. One suggested that antibiotics should only be used when necessary, i.e. to treat serious bacterial infections, their over-consumption making more and more antibiotic-resistant bacteria. Another AFMPS campaign was launched in 2013 to raise awareness of drug use, particularly among children. It is intended to help the public determine when and how to administer a drug to treat certain benign infections, such as fever, in children. Furthermore, the Belgian Commission for the Coordination of Antibiotic Policy (BAPCOC), whose mission is to respond to the inadequate use of antibiotics and to the problem of resistance, also promoted a campaign in 2014 on the correct use of these medicines. I was obviously present at the launch of this campaign. On the basis of IMA data, around 800 antibiotic rules per 1 000 insured persons per year have been paid out since 2010 to 2013. In order to reach the target set by 2020 according to the BAPCOC policy plan 2014-2019 of 600 regulations per 1 000 insured persons per year, we need to reduce the requirement of about 40 regulations per 1 000 insured persons per year. The BAPCOC policy plan therefore aims to reduce the use of quinolone from approximately 10% of total antibiotic consumption to 5% by 2018, as well as an increase in the amoxicillin versus amoxicillin clavular acid ratio from 50/50 to 80/20 by 2018. To this end, the following steps shall be taken. Next winter there will be a new edition of the awareness campaign of BAPCOC with the support of the RIZIV and the Federal Public Health Service, aimed at general practitioners, pedians and pharmacists. The working groups Ambulant Practice and Sensitisation of BAPCOC will discuss with the RIZIV in the near future to coordinate specific, common and targeted actions, thus influencing prescribing behaviour. Directives already exist in Belgium. BAPCOC is updating the current antibiotic guide for the outpatient practice and will also be adapted to the antibiotic guide for Belgian hospitals. Directives on the use of antibiotics in children are included. It is intended that by 2018 the guide will also be accessible electronically by the doctors in a user-friendly way. Now that is a booklet that is here or there, as used to be the guidelines of the Tropical Institute. The moment a patient comes in, that book is just not available. The booklet will be available on the screen of the prescriber and will be consulted in the future. Our country is also participating in the joint action antimicrobial resistance, a European initiative in which all Member States will participate for three years from 2017. Specific joint initiatives will also be proposed and best practices exchanged. As far as prescribing behaviour is concerned, Mrs Jiroflée, the general practitioners received feedback on their prescription behaviour in August 2015. Feedback was also provided per log for the indicators linked to drug consumption. The antibiotics are, of course, a large proportion of them. The feedback per log can be consulted via the RIZIV website. One can see the situation of its log and its ratio to the average value at national and provincial level. There is feedback per log, but there is also the individual feedback.......................................................................................................................................................................................... These recommendations include a full chapter dedicated to prescribing antibiotics, with the message that amoxicillin is the first choice and that quinolone should be avoided if an antibiotic is justified. After all, that is the first question: is there a need for an antibiotic? The second question is: what antibiotic should we give? After all, we have two problems. Firstly, antibiotics are prescribed too quickly and too often. Secondly, the spectrum is too wide, from where the resistance is. As far as bronchodilators are concerned, the available data are global. This does not make it possible to evaluate whether the prescribed treatments are appropriate. The figures for bronchodilators should therefore certainly be analysed in detail and confirmed at national level before deciding what measures can be taken. Various measures are also being taken to reduce antibiotic consumption in children, including baby babies, toddlers and toddlers. As far as we are concerned, a separate awareness campaign by the Federal Breast-feeding Committee has not been designated because it is not part of the basic mandate of the Committee. They have a different mission or role, as has been shown today, to allow more women to breast-feed. Having said that, it should also be stressed that the responsible handling of medicines in general and antibiotics in particular is indeed the responsibility of all prescribers. Citizens should also be aware that driving the unbridled use of medicines and antibiotics does not contribute to public health and certainly not to their individual health. What we are doing now is to warn very strongly about resistance and the superbacteria that are already being detected here and there and that are causing casualties throughout the world, on the whole planet. Then there are the measures to combat resistance that we are taking together with our colleague Willy Borsus. Europe is now talking about the one-health principle. It is not just the use of antibiotics in people that needs to be addressed, but also the use of antibiotics in animals. I've seen the numbers, and they're not exactly reassuring. Even a person who has never taken antibiotics himself can still develop resistance by eating animals that have been given antibiotics. That is why we have made a pact with the animal feed manufacturers, who used to mix antibiotics in animal feed, which gave antibiotics to both sick and healthy animals. We have also made a pact with livestock farmers and with the prescribing veterinarians. We now have a register, the Sanitel system, which records where the prescribed antibiotics are used, who prescribes them and how much. That is where we are making progress. However, it remains a huge task to convince people that antibiotics are not always the best solution. I have indeed used the word'sickness'. Illness is often better than going to work and taking pills that often do not help and sometimes even reduce resistance. However, people do not have the time to get sick anymore. I do not have an answer to Mr Van Hees' question. However, I was thinking about the cost. I'm in favour of majestic drugs. However, they are sometimes more expensive than industrially manufactured medicines. I would like to point out, however, that we must be careful with penicillin. There is already a very high level of resistance to this. It is not my job to decide on this, but I would still be careful with majestic preparations, because the weight of the child is not always taken into account in the dosage. For example, a child is sometimes given too much penicillin. I will ask what to do about this, but I fear that if a majestic preparation is more expensive, we will not immediately opt for that solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u55	Minister, my reply will be very short so that we can continue the questions. We need to know that campaigns are not a sufficient tool. Campaigns were conducted in 2011, 2013, 2014 and 2016. However, consumption and, above all, the requirements are still very important. It would therefore be interesting to examine the reasons why doctors continue to prescribe antibiotics or medicines when this is not necessary. Perhaps finer work should be done with them, but also at the level of training. The presence of antibiotics in meat is a problem. This issue is often dealt with in this committee. But as long as intensive farming is maintained, antibiotics will have to be used, since the animals are on each other and, in doing so, once an animal develops a disease, we try to proceed in a radical way. I'll be with you about how long you can afford when you're sick. But, in my view, the current context with the statistics on sick workers, at the time it takes for them to return to work, runs counter to practices whereby people are invited to stay in bed for a few days rather than to go to work. Collective reflection must therefore be carried out on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u56	Madam Secretary, my opinion is in line with that of my colleague. I am still surprised that we are not making any progress in terms of results. I've been following the healthcare sector for 30 years now, and I'm getting a déjà vu when I hear the awareness plans. There's no way they're getting anywhere. I remember from the 1990s and the 2000s the sensitisation actions, including in the case of general practitioners. It was not electronic at the time, but very beautiful books, and so on, especially for children. However, it is still not progressing. I therefore share the opinion of my colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u57	Madam Secretary, the same applies to me and to you. Perhaps we should consider a different kind of effort. I honestly don't know which one either. I do think we're in a dangerous position, and I'm worried. I don't think it's a weird term at all. In fact, I think that's a very good term. I totally agree with that. In any case, the concern remains, but thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u58	I had a question of "less broad spectrum." Madam Minister, according to my information, if the magistral preparation is more expensive, it is because the basic product is itself too expensive. That's what you have to play on, not on the pharmacist's fees. More broadly, I'm reacting to the fact that you say it's best to stay at home. I agree. But power is still needed because we have to count on the demands of employers. And the additional flexibility provided by the Peeters Act is not going to fix anything!
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u59	This is a subject on which we will come back because the use of antibiotics is still too important.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u60	Madam Minister, I wrote my question following a study published by the University of Bordeaux which would show that 10,000 people would have lost their lives in France following the cessation of their treatment via statins. For this purpose, they have taken into account persons at intermediate risk, either persons with diabetes or with anticoagulant or antihypertensive therapy. They found an overmortality of 13% following discontinuation of this treatment. They question the book of professors Even and Debré, The Guide to 4,000 medicines: useful, useless or dangerous, which questions the usefulness of statins in preventing cardiovascular problems. It was the cessation of treatment that would have resulted in this significant number of deaths. Anonymously, cardiologists then expressed themselves by saying that the same was true in Belgium. We could, if we extrapolate the figures, say that 2,000 deaths are due to these treatment stops. At the same time, cardiologists also recognize excessive prescriptions. Professor Even spoke in Le Soir on August 4. He questioned the usefulness of statin treatments, the difficulty of identifying the link between statins and health, a link he called into question. He considers that in people with too high cholesterol levels, there is often an overestimation due to the excessive lowering of the thresholds for the identification of levels not to be exceeded. Minister, statins represent a phenomenal turnover for pharmaceutical companies, but also a huge budget for INAMI, not to mention the side effects of statins. All experts recognize excessive use. Different studies and reports contradict each other in whole or in part, making it quite difficult to have a vision of the usefulness of statins, how to use them and in what situations. I would like to know how this is apprehended by the Health FPS and at the INAMI? How do scientific studies and reports address this conflicting issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u61	Minister, I will address the subject from a different but nevertheless complementary perspective. Statins, i.e. these anti-cholesterol drugs, as we have just rehearsed, are among the most prescribed molecules in Belgium. In 2015, 13% of the population, or 1.5 million Belgians, consumed it, resulting in a significant impact on the INAMI budget, which, again in 2015, spent almost 137 million euros on the reimbursement of these medicines. According to a study carried out by Christian mutualities, it appears that if doctors prescribed only the least expensive statins, i.e. generic formulas, a savings of 50 million euros could be achieved. For patients, this would save €7 million in user tickets, which is obviously far from negligible. Minister, I have no doubt for a moment that you have been able to read the study I have mentioned. Do you think the figures in this document are correct? How do you explain this situation, knowing that doctors must, for a certain percentage, prescribe the cheapest medicines to their patients? Are additional measures possible? Could deciles be a solution? Minister, thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u62	My question also concerns the choice of statins to be used. A forum of Public Citizen, a consumer organization in the United States, in the British Medical Journal, has been taken up in the mainstream press. This organization is quite critical of Rosuvastatin, and therefore of the medicine Crestor. This joins the top 25 published by Medecine pour le Peuple, i.e. the network of medical homes created at the initiative of the PTB, which places Rosuvastatine in third place on the most expensive medicines podium for INAMI, with a budget of 69 million euros per year. It should be noted that this Rosuvastatin is prescribed to a quarter of patients, and is three times more expensive than, for example, Atorvastatin or Simvastatin. Simvastatin is not only cheaper, but would also be safer and more effective than Rosuvastatin. In relation to this manifest imbalance which favours certain producers or multinationals, what do you intend to achieve in order to solve this problem? In the resolution of this problem, the question arises, inter alia, of a system of public supply which would make it possible to redirect the prescriptions to cheaper and more efficient medicines. This is what we find in a report of the Federal Centre of Expertise on Health Care (KCE) in June 2016 entitled Future scenario for the development of medicines and the setting of their prices. We see the scenario of these public offer systems through a partnership between the government and drug producers.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u63	Madam President, Mr Senesael, Mr Van Hees, the controversy over the positive effect of statins in different populations has long existed and is still topical. Scientific studies show that statins reduce mortality for cardiovascular diseases in patients who already have heart or vascular disease. In addition, in patients who are at high risk for this type of disease, a benefit has been demonstrated. In the case of side effects, an increased risk of muscle pain exists, and a risk of muscle degradation, in some cases up to renal failure, following rabdomiolise, has also been identified. Recent studies point to an increased risk of type 2 diabetes. However, this risk does not counterbalance the benefit of statin treatment in patients with high cardiovascular risk. AFMPS considers that the link between high cholesterol and the risk of having a heart attack is sufficiently demonstrated. The decrease in cholesterol observed using statins reduces the risk of heart attack in populations at high risk. Nevertheless, experts in AFMPS continuously monitor the scientific development of statins and re-evaluate the situation as soon as new data are published or as soon as new data are submitted by companies marketing this type of medicine. Adverse reactions related to the use of statins, which are reported to AFMPS by healthcare professionals, are also taken into account. The current recommendations are included in the summary of product characteristics that identifies situations where benefits outweigh disadvantages. This allows the attending physician to determine which patients are eligible for statin-based treatment, taking into account all relevant parameters. Finally, monitoring of any information concerning signal detection is also carried out at European level within the Committee for Pharmacovigilence Risk Assessment. For this purpose, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) shall cooperate with the Member States designated for the monitoring of the various statins. The figures taken into account in the study of Christian Mutuality correspond, to a large extent, to the figures calculated using the same methodology from the Pharmanet data. Doctors must actually prescribe a certain percentage of cheap medicines. I confirm and inform you that the percentage to be reached will be increased from January 1, 2017 to 55% instead of 50% for general practitioners. This should encourage general practitioners to prescribe more cheap statins. A feedback campaign is planned for physicians (general practitioners as specialists) with the minimum prescription profile, i.e. more than 200 prescriptions per half year. This feedback allows the physician to receive an overview of his or her prescribing behaviour and to position himself or herself against the mimina prescription thresholds for cheap drugs set for his or her own discipline. It thus offers a leading thread allowing doctors to adapt their prescribing behaviour, if necessary, in order to reach the minimum level of cheap medicine set. It is up to doctors to make an effort to increase the number of prescriptions for cheap medicines by 5% over the next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u64	Minister, policies are being pursued to use cheap statins. Nevertheless, the budget is enormous for both firms and INAMI. I wonder about the controversies related to the prescription of statins and the constant lowering of the so-called "acceptable" cholesterol level for health. It would be worth considering whether drugs are being prescribed or whether other approaches to the problem are being taken. I also link with the failure of our nutrition policies, with too much fat and sugar consumption and a lack of movement. All this makes it possible to take refuge in the consumption of statins, with the side effects we know. The budgets for this kind of medicine are huge.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u65	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am part of the President's thinking. I find that your initiative to increase the prescription of generic drugs by 5% from January 1, 2017 is in a positive direction for the statin budget. I also think that we need to take care of a whole bunch of preventions that can limit the increase in cholesterol. There is a constant need to improve information. I learned at noon that it was Sports Week in this federal Parliament and we were not so well advised.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u66	Minister, I take note of the 50% to 55% increase in generic drugs to be prescribed by the physician. Having said that, I have a slight doubt when you say that it is up to him to provide the effort. I'm not sure that's the ideal solution. When you have a drug on the market that is much more expensive and less effective than others, but that benefits from effective advertising campaigns, why pay it back? A system of public offers would make substantial savings in the INAMI budget. We know that the government is looking for savings in the health sector. If this could be achieved at the expense of the profits of multinational drug companies rather than at the expense of the patient, it would be a way forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u67	Madam President, Minister, some diseases require very special treatment which is not always available in Belgium. Patients therefore have the right to seek medical assistance abroad, and are also eligible for reimbursement, if there is no alternative in Belgium. I think that should also apply to chronically ill patients. Citizens inform us that this is not the case for a specific lymphatic disease, for which an annual life-time treatment is required. These patients would not be entitled to reimbursement of medical assistance abroad because the treatment according to the RIZIV is covered by the term "revalidation'. What's your opinion on that? Is this treatment covered or not? I don't think she is. Can you confirm that there is still no alternative to an annual life-time lymphatic treatment in Belgium, so that those people are indeed obliged to go abroad? What measures are you considering to better support patients seeking medical assistance abroad?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u68	Madam President, Mrs Dedry, the intervention for care abroad is governed by Article 294 (1) of the Royal Decree of 3 July 1996. This legislation amended at the end of 2016. Each application for intervention shall be dealt with primarily in the sickness fund. When dealing with the dossier, it depends on the type of concern involved and whether the patient opts for a refund under the EU regulations or under the EU directives. Every rightholder is free to be cared for abroad. However, if he departs on his own initiative, he will pay the costs in full on the spot himself. On returning to Belgium, the refund is made entirely in accordance with Belgian rules. If the beneficiary, like a resident of another country, wishes to be cared for and reimbursed, a prior agreement must be obtained. That prior agreement can only be given under special circumstances. However, since the end of 2013, there has been a change in this scheme in relation to the previous situation. In the past, care which was regarded as rehabilitation could be given prior authorisation in a form E112 if the application met certain criteria. The counseling physician of the mutuality was competent for that. Now, under the 2013 law, no real prior consent can be given. An opinion can only be given on whether or not the application in question is a rehabilitation under Belgian law. In the case of rehabilitation, it can be reimbursed, as it would be reimbursed in Belgium. However, according to Belgian legislation, the complex, multidisciplinary concerns for lymphoedema are not rehabilitation, as there are no analogue conventions in Belgium that treat lymphoedema and repay the concerns. In the context of the treatment of lymphoedema, a number of centres of expertise have emerged in Belgium in recent years which carry out scientifically substantiated work. Depending on their background, they specialize in lymphoedema due to cancer treatment or in premary as secondary forms of lymphoedema. Treatment consists of intensively draining the affected limb or limbs for consecutive days, in combination with motion therapy, manual drainage and skin hygiene. I am working on agreements with centres of expertise to optimise the reimbursement of this decongestion treatment, which may take several weeks. We hope to get it done within a few months. However, correct treatment is already possible in Belgium, even for a complex problem. Patients can enjoy a lot of reimbursed concerns. They are entitled to treatment, a reimbursement of the consultations in doctors-specialists, 120 kinesitherapy sessions of 60 or 120 minutes depending on the severity of the oedema and nurse care for skin care. Patients are also entitled in Belgium to four pressure stockings and two pressure sleeves per year, measured and delivered by the bandagist and reimbursed by the sickness fund. In addition, patients in Belgium, unlike in foreign centres, are only hospitalised in exceptional cases. That does not mean that intensive treatment would be less efficient. With this total package of reimbursed care, one of the existing centres of expertise can already carry out a high-quality decongestion treatment of a few weeks. In current circumstances, it is certainly not necessary to go abroad to find proper care for the treatment of lymphoedema. If this is a life-threatening situation and the patient is hospitalised abroad in better medical conditions, as it is called, then the consultant can provide an S2 for these cares, but this can only be done for very serious cases and the care can only be provided in very few cases under better medical conditions compared to the situation in Belgium. The College of Medical Directors is currently working on a rehabilitation agreement which will allow some highly specialised centres to join. Once this convention has been implemented, lymphoedema care abroad will be considered as rehabilitation and will be able to be provided with the same financial support as patients taking care in Belgium. If everything goes as desired, this convention will be implemented by mid-2017. So we can only pay back as we pay back in Belgium. Because there is no rehabilitation convention in Belgium, we cannot repay rehabilitation abroad either. That's like the story of the chicken and the egg. What are we gonna do? We must first create such a convention in Belgium, and then we can repay rehabilitation abroad. Of course, it is not the intention that everyone abroad should be rehabilitated. In some cases, that might be interesting. So we have already made an extension for lymphoedema, which is a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u69	Thank you for the very comprehensive answer to my short question.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u70	Madam Minister, this too is a very short question. In the field, I heard from a number of home nurses that they have been waiting for some time for social benefits to be paid. I have seen letters showing that they are still waiting for refunds granted in 2014, i.e. more than 2 years ago. These were documents that mentioned leave days, activity premium and so on. My question is simply: why is the payment so late? Isn't there a legal deadline for that? Isn't there a compensation scheme?
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u71	(...) the RIZIV pays the financial resources to the Social Maribel Fund for the private institutions and public institutions for the measures agreed between the federal government and the social partners in the agreements of 2000, 2005, 2010, 2011 and 2012, on the basis of a royal decree submitted annually to the Council of Ministers. The draft decision was submitted to the Council of Ministers on 8 September 2016. In order to avoid any difficulties for employers in financing this measure, an advance payment of 50% of the amount laid down in the draft Royal Decree has already been made. I therefore assume that employers will continue to pay the benefits agreed in the collective agreements to home nurses in a proper way.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u72	Thank you, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2016-10-04-54-commissie-ic503x.u73	Question No 13497 by Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou and question No 13867 by Mrs Nahima Lanjri are transformed into written questions. Ms. Yoleen Van Camp's questions are transformed into written questions.
